=== VIDEO: exh1vwGlrSo (https://youtu.be/exh1vwGlrSo) ===


In Uganda, [music] we are seeing higher incidence of cancers. One in 12 females get breast cancer at some point in their life. And we are observing earlier onset of the disease compared [music] to other parts of the world. But also less survival rates, partly because cancer testing is not [music] done as regularly. Women here get assistance from health care when they are seeing the symptoms. [music] But if we do the screening way earlier at a genetic level, we'd be able to do much better. [music] See this, right? It's a higher expression. A lot of the work that we're doing is to identify targets that could be used as vaccines. Previously, this [music] research would have been done abroad because those are the environments that had these sorts of resources. Now, [music] through the availability of tools like AlphaFold AlphaFold and I gravity, we can do this research here [music] because the capital cost is much less. Once I have a laptop and connected to a server, that gives me a lot [music] of power. The latest tools are the most powerful technology. We identified a protein that is highly expressed among breast cancer patients. If these targets are validated in the lab, this could be life-changing for breast cancer here in [music] Uganda. We had 15,000 sites within the project. Using AlphaFold, we've been able to cut down the range of sites to just 15. If they turn out to be effective, then we have a candidate [music] for vaccine development. Google DeepMind is actually democratizing [music] the kind of science that we can do. Imagine a cancer vaccine. That is where we see straight translation from our research to public health impact here and globally.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: qoinGjj60Fo (https://youtu.be/qoinGjj60Fo) ===


Welcome back to Google DeepMind the podcast. I'm Professor Hannah Fry. Picture the scene. It's March 2016. Inside a hotel suite in Seoul, South Korea, two players are playing the ancient game of Go. A game of unimaginable complexity, long thought impossible for a machine to master. On one side is Lee Sedol, a legendary 18-time Go world champion. On the other, AlphaGo, a neural network-based AI system built on a powerful technique called reinforcement learning. Welcome to the DeepMind Challenge live in Seoul, Korea. That's a very surprising move. Not a single human player would have chosen move 37. After hours of intense gameplay spread over 7 days, Yeah, that's an exciting move. Lee Sedol placed two stones on the board to signal his final resignation. And in the blink of an eye, the world changed. >> Final result of 4-1. Congratulations to AlphaGo and to the entire team. That was exactly 1 decade ago, and the field of AI has changed unimaginably since then. We have seen the rise of large language models, the growing sophistication of AI agents, and the solving of scientific grand challenges like protein folding. But in many ways, the modern AI revolution arguably began right there, on that wooden board in South Korea. So in this episode, we wanted to look backwards and forwards to how a bold experiment in teaching machines to play games became the foundation stone for the AI breakthroughs of today. And with me are the perfect guests to tell that story. Toby Graef is a distinguished research scientist at Google DeepMind who was right there in Seoul as a key architect of the AlphaGo project. And Pushmeet Kohli who leads Google DeepMind science work and is the person to tell us how those early techniques pioneered in Go can tackle crucial problems today. Welcome to the podcast both of you. Tory, I know you're an accomplished Go player yourself. Just explain to us why Go was seen as a good challenge for AI. Yes, the the game of Go seemed like the perfect challenge for AI because the game has such simple rules yet it leads to such complex game play with tactics and strategies and and complex patterns. And once the game of chess had been solved as it were or at least you know, Deep Blue had won against the world champion, then Go was this open challenge. It's much more complex than chess by many orders of magnitude. And nobody was expecting it to be solved anytime soon. Yet it it it looks so elegant and simple for computer scientists and so it was the perfect game to tackle at the time. I mean the idea of nobody thinking it would be solved anytime soon, that's sort of hits the nail on the head, right Pushmeet? I mean I know you were working at Microsoft at the time, but just how complex was this problem considered to be? I think it was considered extremely complex and that is because not only because of the breadth of the search space of the number of moves you can make, but also the depth. How long you have to reason and how long the games are. In in a game of chess, you might think about reasoning about 60 to 70 sort of moves. In a game of Go, it's much much longer and that's leads to the challenge of of the problem. Tory, I know when you first started at DeepMind being a a go player, didn't you didn't you play against AlphaGo on your first day? >> Yeah, yeah, exactly. So, imagine I come first day at work at DeepMind. I know a couple of people including David Silver and he asks me "Tory, you you are a go player, right? Couldn't you do us a favor and test our baby version of of something that wasn't even called AlphaGo at the time, of course. You know, it was an internship project and they had just about taken a few thousand or games from the internet and had trained a system. Or a few hundred thousand games, maybe. And I had the opportunity to be one of the first people to play against it. But you can imagine I was excited, but I was also nervous. It was my first day at work and there I was being dragged to a centrally located table on the other side, I think it was Aja Huang who would later be known as the hand of AlphaGo with his poker face. Um And I got to play against this baby version of AlphaGo. With people watching, presumably. >> With a lot of people watching all around me. You know, there was no escape. Later Demis showed up and of course David was there the whole time. Yeah. And so, what does one do? Play conservatively, right? So, I just thought, just don't make a mistake. Surely this can't be so hard. But of course that was exactly what that version of the program was good at. It was trained on human professional games, so it knew exactly what to do against conventional play. And so, as this little test match proceeded, my position became worse and worse and I I ended up losing by a small margin. But I I took the crown of the first person who officially lost against AlphaGo. It was a quite the experience. And of course, afterwards, everyone knew me. It It was a wonderful way of introducing myself. Um A humbling way. A humbling way, exactly. Mhm, absolutely. But just remind us, I mean, okay, so I I I know that the the algorithm advanced quite substantially from from that early point where it was an internship, but just broadly, explain to us how it worked. And this this idea about cracking the kind of combinatorial spaces in particular. Yeah, so I think if you look at the game of Go, um the number of moves that you can make at any given time, there are a finite number of moves. But if you look and reason about the the overall game state, it's exponential. Um and that exponential growth in the number of states that you have to reason about is what makes the game extremely complicated. So, how did they crack it then? What's Just remind us of of of the solution that they discovered. The beauty of AlphaGo was there is this element of thinking fast and thinking slow. And AlphaGo in some sense was the perfect combination of those thinking fast and thinking slow processes coming together to take on this extremely large search space. And it matches quite well to how humans play the game, I think. You know, if you imagine how how a human would play a game of chess or a game of Go, we also have the capacity to look at a position and pretty quickly appreciate if that's good for black or good for white. And we can also look at a position and already see moves that seem promising. We never look at all the possible moves, which would be maybe 20 or 30 in chess or or 200 or 300 in Go. We immediately drawn to certain, maybe even aesthetically pleasing moves that seemed like just the right ones, guided by our intuition. And that element is complemented by planning where we explicitly reason through the possibilities. If I make this move, my opponent might make that move, and then I have to counter with this move. And these two different ways of thinking come together in how humans play these games, and they also come together in in how AlphaGo plays. >> The intuition and the calculation as it were. >> Exactly. So, was that the inspiration that did you sort of think about how you were playing the game, how other Go players were playing the game, and and draw that direct inspiration from from neuroscience effectively as it were? Yeah, I think that that is definitely one direction because a lot of team members were actually game players who were able to introspect and see how we tackle the game. And then of course that comes together with deep learning that at the time, you know, since 2012 had had grown as a direction and now for the first time gave us the tools to to learn these approximate functions for that, for example, the value function that takes a board and tells us how good it is for either black or white, or the policy network that takes a board and effectively ranks the available moves according to how likely it would be that a professional player would take them. And so deep learning was just ripe at the time to to tackle this problem and gave us the opportunity to implement the fast thinking. The slow thinking is not unlike what happened in Deep Blue. You know, it's the search of the game tree that was already known and that we might now call it good old-fashioned AI. Okay, what I mean, you lost to this thing quite early, but once it had gone through a lot of the people on the team, let's say, I know that you tested it with a professional Go player because you had Fan Hui come into the office. >> Yeah. Exactly. >> How confident were you at that point that it was going to beat him? Yeah, we had different levels of confidence, which was really interesting. So, we had been really lucky to find him. You know, he was the European Go champion at the time. He lived in Bordeaux and and came over. We lured him into into playing this game with us. And the setup was that he would play 10 test games against the version of AlphaGo at that point. And I personally thought that AlphaGo cannot possibly be at the point already that it beats the European champion, a professional player. And so, I had a bet with David Silver. David Silver was confident. He said, "I think AlphaGo is going to nail it 10-0." And I said, "No, I think AlphaGo will lose at least one game." And the bet was that whoever lost would have to show up at the office dressed as an ancient Japanese Go master. And be in the office for one day with that. Well, who showed up like that? It was me because it was in fact 10-0. Yeah. But it did give us confidence and gave them as confident that we would be able to tackle even harder opponents in the near future. >> Which you did, of course. On a plane you got in 2016 to to Seoul, in Korea, to play against Lee Sedol. I mean, just tell us, give us a sense of how phenomenal a player he actually is. Yeah, so Lee Sedol was really one of the or maybe the best players at the time with an incredible track record of of winning tournaments. He was compared to Roger Federer at the time for his success and intellectual brilliance. And so, for us it was a tremendous honor that he accepted our challenge to play against him. And it was a tremendous challenge because we had to set a date, right? You can't just say, you know, we'll tell you when we're ready. The a date was set and we had to work towards that date to to actually make AlphaGo strong enough. And what added tension and excitement to it was that Lee Sedol was convinced that he would win. He thought it highly unlikely at the time that AlphaGo would win. And of course he was basing his assessment on the game records that he had seen against Fan Hui and he assessed that he was better. But of course what he wasn't so aware of is that AlphaGo was constantly improving through the training and the algorithmic refinements and so on that we made. And so the entire team basically went to South Korea and you wouldn't believe the excitement of people there. You know, the truth is in in England Go is a bit of a niche activity, right? Very few people would be able to play it or even know about it. But in South Korea people were so excited. The best Go players are celebrities and you know, we came there and there were hordes of photographers that took pictures. We had a documentary film crew with us and so imagine typical computer geeks as it were suddenly in the limelight of the world for this match. That was quite the adventure. Yeah. I mean, were you nervous about the performance of AlphaGo? Yes, we were definitely nervous. So of course we had a very sophisticated evaluation pipeline. You can test against players that you have access to like Fan Hui, that was super helpful. You can also test against previous versions of the program and you can calculate what we call the Elo score of the system, which basically takes the outcomes of all the games that you play against other versions, maybe earlier versions of your program, and calculates how what the rating of the new version is. And you can calibrate these things quite well. But of course we didn't know where on that scale Lee Sedol would be. And of course we wanted a cushion as well, you know, it would have been would be nice to be quite a bit better, to have some certainty. Because this is the world stage, right? If you lose this, that's a bit of a hit to the to the reputation. And so yeah, we there was we were nervous. We worked up to the last minute. We also needed to make sure that the system is really stable. You know, you don't want to make last minute changes to make it that little bit better, but to risk that it now becomes unstable. But in the end we were we were quite happy with it, and so we entered that now uh kind of famous uh hotel floor where all the action happened, um where all the press was waiting and so on, and uh embarked on the match. And people were watching from around the world, including pushing me. Yeah. So I mean, where were you at this point? Were you you were watching on? Yeah, I was in Seattle. I I mean, I really started getting into it um in the middle of the first game. It became so clear that uh AlphaGo had reached that specific milestone, and you could even see the reaction from um the press and um the commentators, and Lee Sedol himself. Well, it's interesting you said in the middle of that game, because in the early stages of that game, was it clear who had the upper hand? I think from like from person who was just watching it, I felt that in the early stages, everyone felt quite confident that Lee Sedol would would win. In fact, only as the game progressed and it became closer to the final outcome that they realized that as you count the the territory uh AlphaGo had an had an advantage. In fact, it came as a surprise to people. What did you think? Yeah, so I had this interesting interaction on site with a professional Go player, an American professional Go player, who was sitting next to me while we were watching and and um there was some sequence unfolding in a corner and he kind of approached me and said, "You know, I always uh tell my students not to play that stupid move that um AlphaGo just played. So, I mean, it's pretty hopeless." And I was like, "I'm not as much as an expert. I'm Let's just wait and see." was my was my reaction. And then after after that first game, uh this gentleman came to me and said, "This is the most phenomenal thing I've ever experienced. I'm so grateful that I'm allowed to be here to witness that a machine can play Go at this level and there's going to be so much we can learn from it." And he was already embracing this. I mean, you have to imagine these people dedicate their lives to the study of this game and they often trained from being young children uh to their current age just to master this game. And so, of course, it comes as a shock to them that a machine might match or even exceed a human Go player. Cuz if that was the first game when AlphaGo won, in the second game, AlphaGo did something that I mean, really surprised everybody. Wow. That's a very surprising move. Professional commentators almost unanimously said that not a single human player would have chosen move 37. AlphaGo said there was a one in 10,000 probability that move 37 would have been played by a human player. Just just explain to us what happened with the with the now famous move 37. Yeah, so this this was a remarkable scene and I was sitting in the international English-speaking commentating room and and Michael Redmond, our American commentator, he had this big demo board on the wall and he would put all the stones up there on the board to show people what was being played and comment on different variations. And so he took the stone corresponding to move 37 on the board and then he stepped back and said, "No, this must be wrong." And he took it back. And then he looked at the screen again and said, "No, no, that is actually what AlphaGo played." And he put it back. He was puzzled. You You could You could see it that that was such a counterintuitive move for a human player. It was a shoulder move on the fifth line. And this is typically something that human Go players avoid. So often in Go there is some kind of uh pushing going on along the along the edges and one of the players builds territory along the wall of the board and the other side builds influence towards the center of the board. And if that happens on the third and fourth line, this is considered to be roughly equitable, you know, both sides get something out of it. But what AlphaGo was effectively suggesting is that it's still profitable if you do it on the fifth line and you give that much more territory to the other party. And that's what what was so surprising to people that that could that there would be situations in which that would be correct. And so, not only was it a very special move, but it in a way it represented a new way of of weighing these two factors of immediate territory versus influence towards the center of the board against each other. Something that went beyond what a human Go player would would normally do, I assume. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, there are moments like this where you see the true potential of uh any AI system expanding human knowledge where people have regarded um in this in this particular case, the game of Go as a as a thing to be studied for many many years. And uh there comes this particular point where that knowledge is expanded. And people were at first skeptical, and which was the case in the game as well. When when the move was played, it was considered a hallucination, not a mistake, right? For a for quite a bit of time before its implications became clear. Later on in the game. Exactly, because it proved to be pivotal to the second win. Yeah. Mhm. It was not just a moment in that game, but it was also a moment, I think, in the whole sort of history of AI where that particular moment showed us that there will be times when these systems will produce insights which we might not even be able to discern whether they are the right things or amazing breakthroughs, but yet they will have a lot of influence in how we look at whole areas of study in a completely new light. Well, I also want to talk about move 78. This is a a move that was played by Lee Sedol that confused AlphaGo, causing it to resign the game. What is Lee Sedol up to here? He's just burned like 7 or 8 minutes just on this move already. Hm. Look at that move. That's an exciting move. Ooh. You know, I'm not actually sure what AlphaGo is trying to do here. So, he's found his weakness. That That wedge move. World champion Lee Sedol went looking for AlphaGo's weakness in game four and he found it. So, by this point AlphaGo has won three games in a row. And now Lee Sedol does a move that confuses the system. Is that fair to say? >> Yeah, that's absolutely fair to say. So, move 78 um was an unusual wedge move that Lee Sedol played. There had been a very interesting uh battle as it were at the center of the board. And um Lee Sedol found this move and um it was also surprising to people. Um similar to move 37. And um from then on we observed that um AlphaGo didn't have a good grasp of the position anymore. We saw that the moves that it made didn't really make sense to us in a bad way, you know, 37 also didn't make sense to us maybe, but these moves even to to amateurs like us seemed to seemed strange and so it had it had been confused by the move and um just to zoom out to give you a sense of why this still mattered so much. So, you might say, "Okay, it's a match of five games and AlphaGo has won the first three. What more is there to prove? But then we were thinking, well, if now what would you conclude? He's got it figured out, right? He's found the fragility. Exactly. So, the human it would have been a human triumph. And so, that's why that game and the last one were still very exciting to us. But um it wasn't an entirely the case that we were disappointed. We were certainly disappointed, but also we had so much admiration for Is a doll too. You know, as a human to be able to find this move. You just have to imagine this this master who has dedicated his life to playing this game in this battle that must have been so hard on him, right? To to see this machine play so perfectly and him struggling to find a way. And then in game four he finds a way. And as he put it in the um press conference, I think later he uh he said that he was so happy and proud that he was able maybe for the last time on behalf of humanity to find a way to overcome the machine. Because some people called it the divine move, didn't they? Yeah. Yeah. And I think um given the uh the tension at that point in time and and him really outgrowing himself at that moment and finding that move um I think it's a it's a good name for it. Well, the final score was 4-1 to Alpha Go in total. What was the reaction from the Go community? Yeah, so the Go community followed the match very closely and um of course the outcome was dramatic and for many people unexpected. And so, people showed very different reactions. You know, some people were absolutely amazed and surprised about the the outcome. Some people couldn't believe it. Others, of course, also thought that some era had come to an end because now maybe the strongest Go player was no longer a human, but but a machine. Um, but overall, what we found amazing is that there was an uptick in interest in the game of Go. I think more people play Go now than did before, and the Go community really embraced the learning from AlphaGo. So, there are now many programs that work essentially the same way that AlphaGo does, and people use it for teaching purposes. They analyze their games through it, and overall, I think it has provided a lift to the whole Go community. Let me ask you about the reaction from the AI world to to this match. What was the buzz? What was the conversation like? The Lee Sedol match, the AlphaGo Lee Sedol match, uh, was a key pivot point where uh, a lot of people, uh, especially in the machine learning community, who have been uh, sort of working on these uh, models and techniques um, as a mathematical and applied uh, project, started to see evidence that these systems can self-learn and go beyond human knowledge. And that is a very important sort of point because uh, in machine learning, you train with uh, training data which has been collected, and your natural sort of expectation is that the model is going to just be consistent with that distribution. And to show that you can go beyond that distribution, and that insight then can be utilized by uh, the world, I think uh, is an amazing sort of uh, insight that comes out of this whole experience. And um, it really points to what is possible with artificial intelligence in not just the game of Go, but in the understanding of world, in in chemistry, in biology, in mathematics, in computer science. What are these amazing analogs of move 37 that these systems will be able to discover and and reveal to us? I think that point that you made there about going beyond human intelligence is is just so fascinating. But one of the things that I find most intriguing about the the AlphaGo story, even after the victory of 4-1, is that you then built AlphaZero, where you took away all of the human data, all of the the games of Go that it had been trained on, and discovered that once you take out the human intelligence, the thing actually improved, which is astonishing to me. Yeah, from a scientific perspective, one could argue that that is even an even bigger step than the original AlphaGo. Because as you were saying, the AlphaZero system doesn't have access to any human game records, or how humans play, didn't have access to prior knowledge about the game, how the game is played, but really only had access to the rules of the game, and means of representing and learning these functions that that we talked about, the policy net and the value net. And so basically, it starts playing entirely randomly at the beginning because it has no notion of what good or bad moves are, but it gathers experience from playing these games, and it learns what are moves that are more likely to lead to a win, what are moves that are more likely to lead to loss, what are positions that look promising, what are positions that are not promising, and eventually, it it starts playing better and better moves. And now, of course, it's not um limited by human knowledge. And what it discovered was amazing. So, first of all, it uh this it rediscovered ways of how humans play. And that was totally reassuring, you know, there's certain patterns in the corner in Go that we call a joseki. Or in chess, there are certain opening moves. The system was now more general. It could play chess, Go, and shogi and could have played any number of other board games if we trained it that way. And so, at first it rediscovers human knowledge. And we think, "Wow, this is so cool. It It finds the same openings and so on." And then we look at some of these openings and it stops playing them. We think, "What's going on?" It has found a refutation. So, it discovered rediscovered human knowledge and then it discards it because it has now gone beyond it and has found there's actually better ways of playing. I'm not going to continue playing in this human way. Stuff that humans hadn't found yet, effectively. Exactly. For AlphaZero, when it played Go, the way it played Go looked alien to me in the end. So, this wasn't the kind of Go that I had learned from my Go teacher, you know, which is structured maybe in a way that enables humans to understand it. These moves looked very free and um didn't make much sense at the time. But 30 moves later everything would fall into place. You see, "Oh, yeah. Oh, wow, that makes sense now." And so on, as if it had the foresight, in a way, which it did, right? So, that uh that discovery from nothing to to that level of play was very uh impressive. Okay, so there's there's something I I want to show you, something that happened actually when you guys were in Seoul. Because you as you mentioned before, you were being filmed for this documentary for um for AlphaGo. And there's some footage that didn't make it into the film, but it was it was captured by the cameras as they were sort of packing up but the microphones were still running. I don't know if you've you've heard this little clip. Let me play it for you. Hold on. This is Demis and David having a sort of private conversation. Well, it's just amazing seeing how quickly a problem that is seen as being impossible can change to being practically done. >> can solve protein folding. That's like I mean it's just huge. I'm sure we can do that now. I was I thought we could do that before. And now but now we definitely can do it. Beautiful. Isn't that great? >> Yeah. Tore, do do you think that that captured the mood at the time? Yeah, that was the kind of door that AlphaGo opened at the time. Right? If we can do this, then what else could we do? Because this is a game with 10 to the power of 170 different positions. This is super complex. And if we have principled ways of navigating that kind of combinatorial search space, then it seemed plausible that we would also be able to handle other large combinatorial search spaces. And at the time, one of the favorites was protein folding. Absolutely. And and this is now the point really where you come aboard with the DeepMind team fish me because when it came to AlphaFold, I mean you're an integral part of that story. Did AlphaGo did that project directly influence what you guys went on to do or was it sort of like the the confidence of a victory that made Demis say things like that? No, I think Demis from very early on, I think he had a very strong notion of what AI is being developed for. He really sees AI as a tool that will help us um understand the world better. In fact, um at the time when uh when the AlphaGo matches were happening, I was at Microsoft working on AI for programming. Mhm. Now, AI for coding is everywhere, but at that time not many people were working on program synthesis and AI for coding. And um Demis wanted me to join DeepMind, and my question to him was um I am really interested in having AI systems, machine learning systems uh for solving the most challenging problems uh in the world and to make sense of what's happening. And I think his reaction was if you want to understand the world and if you want to solve the most important problems in the world, then you have to join DeepMind because we will need AI to really understand the world deeply and to tackle these problems. So, if you are interested in sort of uh uh learning to program, if you are interested in cybersecurity, if you are interested in uh uh dealing with climate change, if you are interested in understanding how to deal with impossible-to-treat uh sort of diseases, you have to come and really lead the charge on how can AI be used for these applications. I want to ask you about some of the some of the innovations that you guys had made in in AlphaGo and how they ended up finding their way into the the science projects that you guys were doing. One of the big things that AlphaGo did was to make that gigantic search space more tractable. So, how have search algorithms changed since then? And And how are they being used in science? I mean, search uh is such an integral part of many problems that you encounter in the real world. Um we just spoke about uh protein folding, which could be considered as the search over the space of all possible structures, but uh just to give a more sort of simpler example, you can think of search as also the search of algorithms for solving a particular problem. So, everything around us that computers do has some form of matrix multiplication underlying it. So, even the fact that we have these machine learning systems and neural networks that are changing the world today, these neural networks are based on matrix multiplication. Essentially taking large matrices of numbers and multiplying them together. And even the very simplest operation of matrix multiplication, which is just taking two matrices and multiplying them, is the simplest thing that you sort of learn in school and and college, and yet we don't know as a whole research community, what is the fastest way of multiplying two matrices. So, if you think about that problem, you can reason about it as a search problem. You can say there are there's a space of possible algorithms, and now search over that space of algorithms and try to find me the best algorithm. The issue is that the search space for that problem is even larger than the the search space for Go. So, one of the first things that we needed to do is we came up with this agent called Alpha Tensor, which made matrix multiplication as a search problem. As a as a game. So, instead of did you win or lose the game of Go, you're saying, did you multiply these two matrices together quickly or not? Yeah, did you multiply these matrices completely accurately in the smallest number of moves? Right. >> And that was the game, and there was an algorithm that Strassen in 1969 had had come up with and since then for 50 years there was no progress. And then AlphaTensor found a better way of multiplying these two matrices. And then and that was a key sort of proof point of what is possible with the same sort of techniques. In case there's anyone watching who's who's sort of I don't know, maybe not that familiar with the the the things you're talking about matrix multiplication for example. I mean we we need to type really clear on the potential of this thing. I mean every single large language model in the world is essentially at its heart just a massive matrix multiplication problem, right? >> Yes. All of the fuss about different chips that are being made is because some of them can multiply matrices faster than others. And what you're describing here is is like turning that into a game and even small gains that you might make on how quickly you can do something, once you scale it up to the size of how much everybody in the world is using AI, we're talking about gigantic differences. >> Yeah, absolutely. And since then what we have done is we have said, let's not just tackle matrix multiplication, let's tackle all the possible algorithms that you can think of. So our new agents like Alpha Evolve, they search in the space of all possible programs trying to find the best algorithm that can solve these these important problems, whether it's how do you schedule jobs in a data center which is an extremely important problem has a and and has implications in terms of energy, compute utilization and so on. Or how do you sort of tackle these logistics problems where you are trying to move packets around in a network. So the same basic methodology of tackling these search problems now has been expanded in terms of what you can do with it. Okay, but I'm thinking here about the policy network, the the intuition as you described it where, you know, a go player might look at the board and say, "I think this is a fruitful direction in which to search." If you, instead of a board, instead of a game of go, you've got all possible algorithms of everything in the entire world and beyond, let's say. How on earth do you create intuition in that sort of a situation? How do you know how to narrow down the search space? Yeah, so I think this is this is a very interesting sort of research topic that we are now starting to think of when we apply agents like Alpha Evolve to discover these new algorithms. Sometimes those algorithms are not very intuitive to us. In fact, they could could be counterintuitive. So, sometimes you can see the patterns. You can see that there are certain symmetries in the problem that we did not understand, mathematicians did not understand, computer scientists did not understand, but somehow there were those symmetries. The agent somehow discovered those symmetries and then they it exploited and utilized those symmetries to make the the solution much more efficient. In some cases, we just don't understand how it made things faster, but they are faster. And then then our challenge is that when you think about collaboration where humans and these AI agents are working together, then how do we make sure that the systems that are produced and the algorithms that are produced are interpretable by the human computer scientists and engineers. It reminds me a little bit of of this situation in AlphaGo where people in the end game were observing AlphaGo and found that it didn't quite play optimally. And they were really surprised to say, "Look, this is a better move than what AlphaGo played." You know, is it not playing well? Is it making mistakes? And the solution was that AlphaGo was optimizing the objective we had given it, which is to maximize the probability of winning the game. Uh humans tend to use a heuristic, which is they want to have more territory than the opponent by some margin, and they think the larger the margin is, the better it is for them. Which is often true, but AlphaGo doesn't care about the margin. For AlphaGo, it was enough to win by half a point. And so often in the end game, it was almost toying seemed to be toying with the opponent and giving up points just up until the point where it was sure it could win by half a point. And you sometimes you get these counterintuitive behaviors, but if you then drill deeper, you can see why they come about. Because the algorithm and the humans are ultimately optimizing for slightly different things. >> Exactly. >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay, but then that does make me wonder. So move 37 as as an example of where, you know, it went beyond what human humans were able to do. At the same time, when move 37 first came through, people thought it was a mistake, right? So how can you tell the difference? I mean, if if the algorithm comes up with something that is original, can you be sure it's not a hallucination? Yeah, and I think this this is a very important point, right? Like with the large language models, especially when they were being developed initially in the the first versions of them, they would hallucinate. They would come up with the solutions which were not correct or come up with responses which were completely invalid. And this is where the importance of the agent harness comes into play, where you couple the large language model with a verifier, which is able to sort of prune out when what is being hallucinated and what is actually something that might be remarkable that we need to investigate further. But then if these large language models are based on human data, are you Is there a danger of you limiting yourselves to what humans have already discovered? I'm thinking of the you know, the what's already in the textbook as it were. When we build these agents, we deliberately increase the amount of things that they have to explore. So, we tell the models that you have to go beyond the distribution that you were trained on and you should feel free to explore more. And in fact, you might sort of produce new things which might not be appropriate or might not correct, but we have that verifier and evaluation function to prune out those those insights. I think this is really how Karl Popper would also characterize the whole scientific process. Conjecture and refutation is the famous essay and you know, conjecture is maybe hallucination. It's this production capability of producing plausible hypotheses and then refutation is the step by which you filter out the things that that are wrong, that don't work. And I think it it also makes clear why the current AI capability landscape looks like it does. Namely, it is very good in verifiable domains. Code is a verifiable domain. You define the objective, you can write down tests for the code. The first test is that it compiles, you know, it's already a good sign, right? Then you test it on those tests, but you have hard criteria to reject failure. Which is super important for these kinds of tasks. If you don't have it, things become much trickier. For example, if you work on open scientific problems, you might not have a verifier who can tell you that this is right or this is wrong. Ultimately, all from experiment, physical experiment will be the verification that you need. Right, but that's quite a long long way down the road, isn't it? I guess the the experimental part of it. Because I'm just wondering here about interpretability, coming back to the point that you made earlier. Does it matter that you might end up with results that are not easily interpretable here, given that the stakes are so much higher than they are on a board of a Go game? Yeah, I think it it it it it does matter. Science is also about communication, right? If you can come up with this new insight, but if you are not able to communicate and people are not able to build on top of it, then there are limits to what uh the impact that will be achieved, right? So, so interpretability plays a very important role. Uh but it's not the the only thing. Take the example of AlphaFold. AlphaFold is able to uh solve uh this amazing problem of protein structure prediction. Um do we understand completely uh the conceptual uh sort of operations that it does? Like at the mechanistic level, yes, but uh we don't know completely the underlying theory that can be used to recreate uh a human-level reasoning process to make the same predictions. And we will somehow need to convert them to a human-digestible form uh that uh the the bounded rational human mind will be able to comprehend. I think there's a really interesting point there, which is that an explanation not only needs to account for the phenomenon that you're explaining, it also needs to account for the intellectual level of the recipient of the explanation. So, sometimes on YouTube you can see these things life explained at the level of a six-year-old, an eight-year-old, a 10-year-old, a 12-year-old. I quite like the explanations for 12-year-olds, I have to say. Um and and that reflects this fact, right? You know, some an explanation really is a bridge between the phenomenon and our capacity to understand it. So, it may very well be the case that future AI systems come up with explanations that might seem simplistic to them, but that that are just about right for us to keep up with the AI system, right? >> I mean, if you look at our agents like Alpha proof, what they are able to do is um you give them open maths problems, and they will give you a proof. And that that proof is verifiable. >> Mhm. You can tell whether it's correct or not. >> Exactly. Even if you don't understand it. >> Yeah, you might not understand it, but you know it's correct, right? The the uncertainty about whether the original theorem was correct or not uh is now resolved. But do we completely understand it? Like in fact, till now the results that we have had uh we have spent the effort and and then uh converted those results into a form that mathematicians have been able to to see and say, "Yes, it makes sense. I can actually translate it in in English, and it it all works." But there are two key um phenomena that come out of it. One is that the importance of framing the problem uh now rises. Because if you don't uh one of the challenges when we are trying to solve these very hard maths problems, when we are giving the agent these hard problems, is to specify the problem accurately so that the agent can now understand what is the reward function that it needs to optimize for. And then once it finds a solution, then there is a challenge of actually uh converting the solution back to a human-readable form. If we do get to a point though where an algorithm could just come up with its own proof, where's the role for mathematicians in all of this, speaking selfishly? No, I think mathematicians are even more important today. Because what these uh agents are able to do is they're able to solve these incredible problems. But, what are the problems that need solving? How do you specify that problem? That's where mathematicians and scientists come in. I do like the idea though that one day there might be, I don't know, Riemann hypothesis and it comes back and says, "Yes, there's a proof. Unfortunately, it's it's beyond any human's ability to understand it. So, you know, sorry about that." But, actually, I mean, I'm joking slightly, but but if we are talking here about advancing scientific knowledge and understanding beyond what humans have done, do you think you've seen examples of move 37 in science already? Yeah, I think absolutely. I think uh just the example of the matrix multiplication algorithm, it it is something that people had studied for many, many years and yet we are we have been able to come up with a new algorithm. So, that is genuinely a move 37 moment in algorithmic discovery. And I think we are we are now seeing the same thing in many other areas um of of science, in mathematics, in in material science, coming up with new uh structures that we think now are stable. Um so, there are a number of these uh uh things, but the original move 37 moment is still very relevant because it was in some sense the first and it brought about that concept of going beyond human understanding. I am thinking here about AlphaZero again and how that really moved away from human data and and showed these profound results. Large language models, on the other hand, ended up being almost a a shortcut to intelligence, I guess, that was based very much on on human data. Was that a sort of surprising turn of events for you? Yes, I think that is a an interesting thing that we observed. DeepMind was based on this idea that we use games as a microcosm of of the real world. And the philosophy of DeepMind had been to place agents within these environments and let them learn how to master them and thereby grow their intelligence. And then what happened with large language models was really this discovery that there's a shortcut. That somehow there's this huge amount of crystallized intelligence, if you like, stored in the form of data on the internet. First text data, maybe images, maybe videos, and so on. And that the shortcut is really to first mine all of that data and train systems based on that. And that's basically the first and second generation of large language models that are based on that. But then of course, you come to the point where first of all, that doesn't lead you to novelty. You're now within this corpus of existing human knowledge and we know how competent these models are within that. But but it's very difficult to to get out of that now. How do we go beyond what we already know? And that's I think where now the community for the past few years is exploring the methods again that DeepMind pioneered early on. And there's of course reinforcement learning in environments. Part of the post training now is routinely forms of reinforcement learning and either on human generated data or also on problems on environments like coding environments and so on. And so so now we're in a period where we're going again beyond human knowledge. Pushmeet, do you think that we would be here at this moment in the AI revolution if it hadn't been for AlphaGo. I think AlphaGo was that transition point where it became very very clear that the moment of transition where we go beyond human level intelligence in particular areas is not science fiction or many decades later. It is happening now. And if it could happen in the game of Go, there was no reason why it couldn't happen in protein structure prediction, in fusion, in material science. And the legacy of that match and move 37 and and that experience is what we are all living in now. I think that's a great point to end the episode actually. To be honest with you, Demis pushed me. Thank you so much for joining me. Amazing. Yeah, pleasure. Yeah. These big paradigm-shifting moments in the story of humans and machines have happened before, but the thing about chess is that it was always just a question of calculation. Can a machine brute-force its way to a victory? AlphaGo was different. It was the first time that a machine had demonstrated something deeper, a genuine intelligence that combined intuition with calculation and took us beyond human capability. Now, 10 years on from the AlphaGo match, the field has moved at an incredible pace. But many of the questions that preoccupied researchers then are more relevant now than ever. How do you create AI systems that go beyond human knowledge and are capable of new insights? And how do you separate the genuinely new insights from hallucinations? You have been listening to Google DeepMind the podcast with me, Hannah Fry. We have got plenty more episodes to come out this year. So, please make sure you subscribe to our YouTube channel. We'll see you soon.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: PqVbypvxDto (https://youtu.be/PqVbypvxDto) ===


DEMIS HASSABIS:
Effectively, you can think of as 50% of our effort
is on scaling, 50% of it is on innovation. My betting is you're going
to need both to get to AGI. I've always felt this, that
if we build AGI, and then use that as a simulation
of the mind, and then compare that
to the real mind, we will then see what
the differences are and potentially
what's special and remaining about the human mind. Maybe that's creativity. Maybe it's emotions. Maybe it's dreaming,
consciousness. There's a lot of hypotheses out
there about what may or may not be computable. And this comes back to the
Turing machine question of, what is the limit
of a Turing machine? HANNAH FRY: So there's nothing
that cannot be done within these computational-- DEMIS HASSABIS: Well,
put it this way. Nobody's found anything in the
universe that's non-computable, so far. HANNAH FRY: So far. [THEME MUSIC] Welcome to "Google DeepMind:
The Podcast" with me, Professor Hannah Fry. It has been an
extraordinary year for AI. We have seen the
center of gravity shift from large language
models to agentic AI. We've seen AI accelerate
drug discovery and multimodal models integrated into
robotics and driverless cars. Now, these are all topics
that we've explored in detail on this podcast. But for the final
episode of this year, we wanted to take a
broader view, something beyond the headlines
and product launches, to consider a much
bigger question. Where is all this
heading, really? What are the scientific and
technological questions that will define the next phase? And someone who spends quite
a lot of their time thinking about that is Demis
Hassabis, CEO and co-founder of Google DeepMind. Welcome back to
the podcast, Demis. DEMIS HASSABIS:
Great to be back. HANNAH FRY: I mean, quite a lot
has happened in the last year. DEMIS HASSABIS: It has. HANNAH FRY: What is the
biggest shift, do you think? DEMIS HASSABIS: Oh, wow. I mean, it's just so much
has happened, as you said. It feels like we packed
in 10 years in one year. I think a lot's happened. I mean, certainly, for us,
the progress of the models-- we've just released Gemini 3,
which we're really happy with-- the multi-modal capabilities,
all of those things have just advanced really well. And then probably the thing,
I guess, over the summer that I'm very excited about is
world models being advanced. I'm sure we're going
to talk about that. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, absolutely. We will get on to all of
that stuff in a little bit more detail in a moment. I remember the very first
time I interviewed you for this podcast, and you were
talking about the root node problems, about this idea
that you can use AI to unlock these downstream benefits. And you've made pretty good on
your promise, I have to say. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes. HANNAH FRY: Do you
want to give us an update on where
we are with those? What are the things
that are just around the corner and
the things that you've sort of solved or near solved? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. Well, of course, the big
proof point was AlphaFold. And it's crazy to think
we're coming up to five-year anniversary of AlphaFold
being announced to the world-- AlphaFold2, at least. So that was the proof,
I guess, that it was possible to do these
root node type of problems. And we're exploring
all the other ones now. I think material science. I'd love to do a room
temperature superconductor. And better batteries,
these kinds of things-- I think that's on the cards,
better materials of all sorts. We're also working on fusion. HANNAH FRY: Because there's
a new partnership that's been announced with fusion, right? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. We've just announced a
partnership with a deep one. We already were
collaborating with them, but it's a much deeper one now
with Commonwealth Fusion, who I think are probably
the best startup working on at least traditional
tokamak reactors. So they're probably closest
to having something viable. And we want to help
accelerate that, helping them contain the plasma
in the magnets and maybe even some material
design there, as well. So that's exciting. And then we're
collaborating also with our quantum
colleagues, which they're doing amazing work at
the quantum AI team at Google. And we're helping them with
error correction codes, where we're using our machine
learning to help them. And then maybe one
day they'll help us. [LAUGHS] HANNAH FRY: That perfect cycle. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, exactly. HANNAH FRY: The fusion
one is particularly-- I mean, the difference
that that would make to the world, that would be
unlocked by that, is gigantic. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. I mean, fusion has always
been the holy grail. Of course, I think solar
is very promising, too, effectively using the
fusion reactor in the clouds and in the sky. But I think if we could have
modular fusion reactors, this promise of unlimited,
renewable, clean energy would be-- obviously,
transform everything. And that's the holy grail. And, of course,
that's one of the ways we could help with climate. HANNAH FRY: It does make a
lot of our existing problems sort of disappear if
we can [INAUDIBLE]. DEMIS HASSABIS: Definitely. I mean, it opens up
many-- this is why we think of it as a root node. Of course, it helps directly
with energy and pollution and so on and helps
with the climate crisis. But also, if energy really was
renewable and clean and super cheap, almost free,
then many other things would become viable,
like water access because we could have
desalination plants pretty much everywhere, even
making rocket fuel. There's lots of seawater that
contains hydrogen and oxygen, and that's basically
rocket fuel. But it just takes
a lot of energy to split it out into
hydrogen and oxygen. But if energy is cheap
and renewable and clean, then why not do that? You could have that
producing 24/7. HANNAH FRY: You're also
seeing a lot of change in the AI that is
applying itself to mathematics-- winning medals
in the International Maths Olympiad. And yet, at the same
time, these models can make quite basic
mistakes in high school math. Why is there that paradox? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. I think it's
fascinating, actually, one of the most
fascinating things, and probably that needs to be
fixed as one of the key things why we're not at AGI yet. As you said, we've
had a lot of success in other groups on getting gold
medals at the International Maths Olympiad. You look at those
questions, and they're super hard questions that only
the top students in the world can do. And, on the other
hand, if you pose a question in a
certain way-- we've all seen that with experimenting
with chat bots ourselves in our daily lives-- that it
can make some fairly trivial mistakes on logic problems. They can't really play decent
games of chess yet, which is surprising. So there's something
missing still from these systems in
terms of their consistency. And I think that's
one of the things that you would expect from a
general intelligence, an AGI system, is that it would be
consistent across the board. And so sometimes people call
it jagged intelligences. So they're really good at
certain things, maybe even PhD level. But then, other things, they're
not even high school level. So it's very uneven still, the
performances of these systems. They're very, very impressive
in certain dimensions, but they're still
pretty basic in others. And we've got to
close those gaps. And there are
theories as to why. And depending on
the situation, it could even be the
way that an image is perceived and tokenized. So sometimes, actually,
it doesn't even get all the letters that-- so when you count
letters in words, it sometimes gets that wrong. But it may not be seeing
each individual letter. So there's different reasons
for some of these things. And each one of
those can be fixed, and then you can see what's
left, but I think consistency. I think another thing is
reasoning and thinking. So we have thinking systems
now that, at inference time, they spend more time
thinking, and they're better at outputting their answers. But it's not super
consistent yet in terms of, is it using that thinking
time in a useful way to actually double-check
and use tools to double-check what
it's outputting? I think we're on the way, but
maybe we're only 50% of the way there. HANNAH FRY: I also wonder
about that story of AlphaGo and then AlphaZero,
where you took away all of the human experience and
found that the model actually improved. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: Is there a
scientific or a maths version of that in the
models that you're creating? DEMIS HASSABIS: I think what
we're trying to build today, it's more like AlphaGo. So effectively, these
large language models, these foundation
models, they're starting with all of human
knowledge, what we put on the internet, which
is pretty much everything these days, and compressing that
into some useful artifact which they can look up
and generalize from. But I do think we're still
in the early days of having this search or thinking
on top, like AlphaGo had, to use that model to
direct useful reasoning traces, useful planning
ideas, and then come up with the best solution to
whatever the problem is at that point in time. So I don't feel like we're
constrained at the moment with the limit of human
knowledge, like the internet. I think the main
issue at the moment is, we don't know how to use
those systems in a reliable way fully yet in the way
we did with AlphaGo. But, of course, that was a lot
easier because it was a game. I think once you
have AlphaGo there, you could go back, just like
we did with the Alpha series, and do an AlphaZero, where it
starts discovering knowledge for itself. I think that would
be the next step, but that's obviously harder. And so I think it's
good to try and create the first step first with some
kind of AlphaGo-like system. And then we can think about
an AlphaZero-like system. But that is also one
of the things missing from today's systems
is the ability to online learn and
continually learn. So we train these
systems, we balance them, we post-train them, and then
they're out in the world. But they don't continue to learn
out in the world, like we would. And I think that's
another critical missing piece from these systems
that will be needed for AGI. HANNAH FRY: In terms of all of
those missing pieces, I mean, I know that there's this
big race at the moment to release commercial
products, but I also know that Google
DeepMind's roots really lie in that idea of
scientific research. And I found a quote from
you where you recently said, "If I'd had my way, we would
have left AI in the lab for longer and done more
things like AlphaFold, maybe cured cancer or
something like that." Do you think that
we lost something by not taking that slower route? DEMIS HASSABIS: I think we
lost and gained something. So I feel like that
would have been the more pure scientific approach. At least, that was
my original plan, say 15, 20 years ago, that
when almost no one was working on AI-- we just started. We were just about
to start DeepMind. People thought it was a
crazy thing to work on. But we believed in it. And I think that the idea was,
if we would make progress, we would continue to
incrementally build towards AGI, be very careful about what
each step was and the safety aspects of it and so on, analyze
what the system was doing and so on. But in the meantime,
you wouldn't have to wait till AGI
arrived before it was useful. You could branch
off that technology and use it in really
beneficial ways to society, namely advancing
science and medicine, so exactly what we did
with AlphaFold, actually, which, it's not a foundation
model itself, general model, but it uses the same techniques,
transformers and other things, and then blends it with more
specific things to that domain. So I imagined a whole bunch
of those things getting done which would be hugely--
you'd release to the world, just like we did with AlphaFold
and, indeed, do things like cure cancer and so on
whilst we were working on more the AGI track in the lab. Now, it's turned out that
chatbots were possible at scale, and people find them useful. And then they've now morphed
into these foundation models that can do more
than chat and text, obviously, including Gemini. They can do images and video
and all sorts of things. And that's also been very
successful commercially in terms of a product. And I love that, too. I've always dreamed of having
the ultimate assistant that would help you in everyday
life, make it more productive, maybe even protect your
brain space a bit, as well, from inattention so that
you can focus and be in flow and so on because today,
with social media, it's just noise, noise, noise. And I think AI, actually, that
works for you could help us with that. So I think that's good, but it
has created this pretty crazy race condition where there's
many commercial organizations and even nation states all
rushing to improve and overtake each other. And that makes it hard
to do rigorous science at the same time. We try to do both,
and I think we're getting that balance right. On the other hand,
there are lots of pros of the way it's
happened, which is, of course, there's a lot more resources
coming into the area. So that's definitely
accelerated progress. And, also, I think the
general public are actually, interestingly, only
a couple of months behind the absolute frontier
in terms of what they can use. So everyone gets the chance
to feel for themselves what AI is going to be like. And I think that's a good
thing and then governments sort of understanding this better. HANNAH FRY: The thing
that's strange is that-- I mean, this time
last year, I think there was a lot
talk about scaling, eventually hitting a wall,
about us running out of data. And yet, we're recording-- now,
Gemini 3 has just been released, and it's leading on this whole
range of different benchmarks. How has that been possible? Wasn't there supposed to be a
problem with scaling hitting a wall? DEMIS HASSABIS: I
think a lot of people thought that, especially
as other companies have had slower progress, shall we say. But I think we've never
really seen any wall, as such. What I would say is maybe
there's diminishing returns. And when I say that,
people only think, oh, so there's no returns. It's 0 or 1. It's either exponential,
or it's asymptotic. No. Actually, there's a lot of
room between those two regimes. And I think we're
in between those. So it's not like
you're going to double the performance on all
the benchmarks every time you release a new iteration. Maybe that's what was happening
in the very early days, three, four years ago. But you are getting significant
improvements, like we've seen with Gemini 3,
that are well worth the investment and the return
on that investment and doing. So that, we haven't
seen any slowdown on. There are issues like,
are we running out of just available data? But there are ways to get
around that-- synthetic data, generating-- these
systems are good enough, they can start generating
their own data. Especially in certain
domains like coding and math, where you can verify the
answer, in some sense, you could produce
unlimited data. So all of these things,
though, are research questions. And I think that's the
advantage that we've always had is that we've always
been research-first. And I think we have the broadest
and deepest research bench, always have done. And if you look back at the
last decade of advances, whether that's transformers
or AlphaGo, AlphaZero, any of the things we just
discussed, that they all came out of Google or DeepMind. So I've always said, if
more innovations are needed, scientific ones,
then I would back us to be the place to
do it, just like we were in the previous
15 years for a lot of the big breakthroughs. So I think that's just
what's transpiring. And I actually really like it
when the terrain gets harder, because then it's not just
world-class engineering you need, which is
already hard enough, but you have to ally that
with world-class research and science, which is
what we specialize in. And on top of that, we
also have the advantage of world-class
infrastructure with our TPUs and other things that we've
invested in for a long time. And so that
combination, I think, allows us to be at the
frontier of the innovations, as well as the scaling part. And, effectively, you can
think of as 50% of our effort is on scaling, 50% of
it is on innovation. And my betting is you're going
to need both to get to AGI. HANNAH FRY: I mean, one
thing that we are still seeing, even in Gemini 3,
which is an exceptional model, is this idea of hallucinations. So I think there
was one metric that said it can still give an answer
when actually it should decline. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes. HANNAH FRY: I mean,
could you build a system where Gemini gives
a confidence score in the same way
that AlphaFold does? DEMIS HASSABIS:
Yeah, I think so. And I think we need
that, actually. And I think that's one
of the missing things. I think we're getting close. I think the better
the models get, the more they know about what
they know, if that makes sense. And I think the
more reliable-- you could rely on them to actually
introspect in some way or do more thinking and
actually realize for themselves that they're
uncertain, or there's uncertainty over this answer. And then we've got to work
out how to train it in a way where it can output that
as a reasonable answer. We're getting better at it. But it still sometimes-- it forces itself to answer when
it probably shouldn't, and then that can lead to
a hallucination. So I think a lot of the
hallucinations are of that type, currently. So there's a missing piece
there that has to be solved, and you're right,
as we did solve it with AlphaFold, but in obviously
a much more limited way. HANNAH FRY: Because
presumably, behind the scenes, there is some sort of
measure of probability of whatever the
next token might be. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, there
is of the next token. That's how it all works. But that doesn't tell you
the overall arching piece, is how confident are you
about this entire fact or this entire statement? And I think that's
why you'll need this-- I think we'll need to use the
thinking steps and the planning steps to go back over
what you just output. At the moment, it's a little
bit like the systems are just-- it's like talking to a person,
and when they're on a bad day, they're just literally
telling you the first thing that comes to their mind. Most of the time,
that will be OK. But then sometimes, when
it's a very difficult thing, you'd want to stop,
pause for a moment, and maybe go over what you
were about to say and adjust what you were about to say. But perhaps that's happening
less and less in the world these days, but that's
still the better way of having a discourse. So I think you can
think of it like that. These models need
to do that better. HANNAH FRY: I also
really want to talk to you about the
simulated worlds and putting agents
in them because we got to talk to your Genie
team earlier this year. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes,
it's awesome work. HANNAH FRY: Tell me why
you care about simulation. What can a world model do
that a language model can't? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, look,
it's actually been-- it's probably my
longest-standing passion is world models and
simulations, in addition to AI, and of course it's all
coming together in our most recent work, like Genie. And I think language models
are able to understand a lot about the world-- I think, actually, more than we
expected, more than I expected, because language is actually
probably richer than we thought. It contains more about
the world than even linguists maybe imagined. And that's proven now
with these new systems. But there's still a lot
about the spatial dynamics of the world-- spatial awareness and
the physical context we're in and how that
works mechanically-- that is hard to
describe in words and isn't generally described
in corpuses of words. And a lot of this is allied
to learning from experience, online experience. There's a lot of things
which you can't really describe something. You have to just experience it. Maybe the senses and so on are
very hard to put into words, whether that's motor angles and
smell and these kind of senses. It's very difficult to describe
that in any kind of language. So I think there's a whole
set of things around that. And I think if we want robotics
to work or a universal assistant that maybe comes along with
you in your daily life, maybe on glasses or on your phone and
helps you in your everyday life, not just on your
computer, you're going to need this kind
of world understanding, and world models are
at the core of that. So what we mean by world model
is this sort of model that understands the causative
and effect of the mechanics of the world-- intuitive
physics, but how things move, how things behave. Now, we're seeing a lot of that
in our video models, actually. And one way to show,
how do you test you have that kind
of understanding? Well, can you generate
realistic worlds? Because if you can generate
it, then, in a sense, you must have understood-- the system must have
encapsulated a lot of the mechanics of the world. So that's why Genie and
Veo and these models, our video models and our
interactive world models, are really impressive,
but also important steps towards showing we have
generalized world models. And then hopefully,
at some point, we can apply it to robotics
and universal assistants. And then, of course, one of my
favorite things I'm definitely going to have to
do at some point is reapplying it back to
games and game simulations and create the ultimate games,
which, of course, was maybe always my subconscious plan. HANNAH FRY: All of
this, just for that. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, all
of this time, exactly. HANNAH FRY: What about
science, too, though, because you use
it in that domain? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, you could. So science, again,
I think, building models of scientifically
complex domains, whether that's materials on
the atomic level in biology, but also some physical things,
as well, like weather-- one way to understand those systems
is to learn simulations of those systems
from the raw data. So you have a bunch of raw data. Let's say it's
about the weather. And, obviously, we have some
amazing weather projects going on. And then you have a model
that learns those dynamics and can recreate those dynamics
more efficiently than doing it by brute force. So I think there's huge
potential for simulations and world models, maybe
specialized ones, for aspects of science and mathematics. HANNAH FRY: But
then, also, I mean, you can drop an agent into that
simulated world too, right? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes. HANNAH FRY: Your Genie 3 team,
they had this really lovely quote, which was, "Almost
no prerequisite to any major invention was made with
that invention in mind." And they were talking
about dropping agents into these simulated
environments and allowing them to
explore with curiosity being their main motivator. DEMIS HASSABIS: Right. And so that's another really
exciting use of these world models is you can-- we have
another project called SIMA-- we just released SIMA 2-- simulated agents, where you
have an avatar or an agent, and you put it down
into a virtual world. It can be a normal-- it can be
a kind of actual commercial game or something like that,
a very complex one, like "No Man's Sky," a kind
of open-world space game. And then you can
instruct it because it's got Gemini under the hood. You can just talk to the
agent and give it tasks. But then we thought,
well, wouldn't it be fun if we plugged
Genie into SIMA and dropped a SIMA agent into
another AI that was creating the world on the fly? So now the two AIs are
kind of interacting in the minds of each other. So the SIMA agent is trying
to navigate this world. And as far as Genie is
concerned, that's just a player, and an avatar doesn't
care that it's another AI. So it's just generating
the world around whatever SIMA is trying to do. So it's kind of amazing to see
them both interacting together. And I think this
could be the beginning an interesting training
loop, where you almost have infinite training examples
because, whatever the SIMA agent is trying to learn, Genie
can basically create on the fly. So I think that you could
imagine a whole world of setting and solving tasks, just
millions of tasks automatically, and they're just getting
increasingly more difficult. So we may try to set up
a kind of loop like that, as well as obviously
those SIMA agents could be great as game
companions, or also some of the things
that they learn could be useful
also for robotics. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, the end
of boring NPCs, basically. DEMIS HASSABIS: Exactly. It's going to be
amazing for these games. Yeah. HANNAH FRY: Those worlds
that you're creating, though, how do you make sure that
they really are realistic? I mean, how do you ensure
that you don't end up with physics that looks
plausible but is actually wrong? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah,
that's a great question and can be an issue. It's basically
hallucinations again. So some hallucinations
are good because it also means you might create
something interesting and new. So, in fact,
sometimes, if you're trying to do creative
things or trying to get your system
to create new things, novel things, a bit of
hallucination might be good. But you want it
to be intentional, so you switch on the
hallucinations now or the creative exploration. But, yes, when you're trying
to train a SIMA agent, you don't want Genie
hallucinating physics that are wrong. So, actually, what
we're doing now is we're almost creating
a physics benchmark, where we can use game engines, which
are very accurate with physics, to create lots of fairly
simple-- like the sorts of things you would do in your
physics A-level lab lessons, like rolling little balls
down different tracks and seeing how fast
they go, and so really teasing apart on
a very basic level Newton's three laws of motion. Has it encapsulated it? Whether that's Veo or
Genie, have these models encapsulated the physics
of that 100% accurately? And right now, they're not. They're kind of approximations. And they look realistic when
you just casually look at them, but they're not
accurate enough yet to rely on for, say, robotics. So that's the next step. So I think, now we've got these
really interesting models, I think one of the
things, just like we're trying with all of our models,
is to reduce the hallucinations and make them even
more grounded. And with physics, I think
that's going to probably involve generating loads and loads of
ground truth, simple videos of pendulums. What happens when two
pendulums go around each other? But then, very quickly, you
get to three-body problems, which are not solvable anyway. So I think it's going
to be interesting. But what's amazing
already is, when you look at the
video models like Veo and just the way it treats
reflections and liquids, it's pretty unbelievably
accurate already, at least to the naked eye. So the next step
is actually going beyond what a human
amateur can perceive, and would it really hold up to a
proper physics-grade experiment? HANNAH FRY: I know
you've been thinking about these simulated worlds
for a really long time. And I went back
to the transcript of our first interview,
and in it, you said that you really liked
the theory that consciousness was this consequence
of evolution, that at some point in
our evolutionary past, there was an advantage
to understanding the internal state of
another, and then we turned it in on ourselves. Does that make you curious
about running an agent evolution inside of a simulation? DEMIS HASSABIS: Sure. I mean, I'd love to run that
experiment at some point, kind of rerun evolution, rerun
almost social dynamics, as well. Santa Fe used to run
lots of cool experiments on little grid worlds. I used to love some of these. They're mostly
economists, and they were trying to run little
artificial societies, and they found that all sorts
of interesting things got invented that, if you
let agents run around for long enough with the
right incentive structures-- markets, and banks, and
all sorts of crazy things. So I think it would be
really cool and also just to understand the origin of life
and the origin of consciousness. And I think that is one
of the big passions I had for working on AI
from the beginning was, I think you're going to
need these kinds of tools to really understand
where we came from and what these phenomena are. And I think simulations is
one of the most powerful tools to do that because you can then
do it statistically because you can run the
simulation many times with slightly different
initial starting conditions and then maybe run
it millions of times and then understand what the
slight differences are in a very controlled experiment sort of
way, which, of course, is very difficult to do in the real
world for any of the really interesting questions
we want to answer. So I think accurate simulations
will be an unbelievable boon to science. HANNAH FRY: Given
what we've discovered about emergent properties
of these models, having conceptual understanding
that we weren't expecting, do you also have to be
quite careful about running those sort of simulations? DEMIS HASSABIS: I think
you would have to be, yes. But that's the other nice
thing about simulations. You can run them in
pretty safe sandboxes. Maybe eventually you
want to airgap them. And you can, of course,
monitor what's happening in the simulation 24/7, and you
have access to all the data. So we may need AI tools to
help us monitor the simulations because they'll be so complex,
and there'll be so much going on in them. If you imagine loads of AIs
running around in a simulation, it'll be hard for any human
scientist to keep up with it. But we could probably use other
AI systems to help us analyze and flag anything interesting
or worrying in those simulations automatically. HANNAH FRY: I mean,
I guess we're still talking medium to long-term
in terms of this stuff. So just going back
to the trajectory that we're on at
the moment, I also wanted to talk to
you about the impact that AI and AGI are going
to have on wider society. And last time we spoke,
you said that you thought AI was overhyped
in the short term, but underhyped in the long term. And I know that, this year,
there's been a lot of chatter about an AI bubble. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes. HANNAH FRY: What happens
if there is a bubble, and it bursts? What happens? DEMIS HASSABIS:
Well, look, I think, yes, I still subscribe to, it's
overhyped in the short term and still underappreciated in
the medium to long term, how transformative it's going to be
Yeah, there is a lot of talk, of course, right now,
about AI bubbles. In my view, I
think there isn't-- it's not one thing, binary
thing-- are we, or aren't we? I think there are parts
of the AI ecosystem that are probably in bubbles. One example would be just
seed rounds for startups that basically haven't
even got going yet, and they're raising
at tens of billions of dollars valuations
just out of the gate. It's sort of interesting to
see, can that be sustainable? My guess is, probably not,
at least not in general. So there's that area. Then people are worrying
about-- obviously, there's the big tech
valuations and other things. I think there's a lot of real
business underlying that. But it remains to be seen. I mean, I think maybe for any
new, unbelievably transformative and profound technology, of
which, of course, AI is probably the most profound, you're going
to get this overcorrection, in a way. So when we started DeepMind,
no one believed in it. No one thought it was possible. People were wondering,
what's AI for, anyway? And then now, fast-forward 10,
15 years, and now, obviously, it seems to be the only thing
people talk about in business. But you're going to get--
it's almost an overreaction to the under-reaction. So I think that's natural. I think we saw that
with the internet. I think we saw it with mobile. And I think we're seeing it or
going to see it again with AI. I don't worry too much about,
are we in a bubble or not? because from my perspective,
as leading Google DeepMind and also, obviously, with
Google and Alphabet as a whole, our job and my job
is to make sure, either way, we come
out of it very strong, and we're very well-positioned. And I think we are tremendously
well-positioned either way. So if it continues going
like it is now, fantastic. We'll carry on all
of these great things that we're doing in experiments
and progress towards AGI. If there's a retrenchment, fine. Then, also, I think
we're in a great position because we have our
own stack with TPUs. We also have all these
incredible Google products and the profits that all
makes to plug in our AI into. And we're doing
that, with Search is totally revolutionized by AI
Overviews, AI Mode, with Gemini under the hood. We're looking at Workspace,
at email, at YouTube. So there's all these
amazing things in Chrome. There's all these amazing
things that we can see already are low-hanging fruit to apply
Gemini to, as well, of course, as Gemini app, which is doing
really well, as well, now and the idea of
universal assistant. So there's new
products, and I think they will, in the fullness
of time, be super valuable. But we don't have
to rely on that. We can just power up
our existing ecosystem, which is all-- I think that's what's
happened over the last year. We've got that
really efficient now. HANNAH FRY: In terms of the
AI that people have access to at the moment-- I know you said recently
how important it is not to build AI to maximize
user engagement, just so we don't repeat the
mistakes of social media. But I also wonder whether we are
already seeing this, in a way-- I mean, people spending so much
time talking to their chatbots that they end up
kind of spiraling into self-radicalizing. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: How
do you stop that? How do you build
AI that puts users at the center of their
own universe, which is the point of this,
in a lot of ways, but without creating
echo chambers of one? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. It's a very careful
balance that I think is one of the
most important things that we, as an industry,
have got to get right. So I think we've seen what
happens with some systems that were overly
sycophantic, or then you get these echo chamber
reinforcements that are really bad for the person. So I think part of it
is-- and actually, this is what we want to
build with Gemini. And I'm really pleased
with the Gemini 3 persona that we had a great team working
on and I helped with, too, personally-- is just this almost
like a scientific personality, that it's warm, it's helpful,
it's light, but it's succinct, to the point, and
it will push back on things, in a friendly
way, that don't make sense, rather than trying to reinforce
the idea that the Earth is flat, and you said it, and it's
like, wonderful idea. I don't think that's good
in general for society if that were to happen. But you've got to balance
it with what people want because people want these
systems to be supportive, to be helpful with their
ideas and their brainstorming. So you've got to get
that balance right. And I think we're developing
a science of personality and persona of how to
measure what it's doing, and where do we want it to
be on authenticity, on humor, these sorts of things? And then you can imagine
there's a base personality that it ships with,
and then everyone has their own preferences. Do you want it to be more
humorous, less humorous, or more succinct, or more verbose? People like different things. So you add that additional
personalization layer on it, as well. But there's still the core base
personality that everyone gets, which is sort of
trying to adhere to the scientific method, which
is the whole point of these. And we want people to
use these for science and for medicine and
health issues and so on. And so I think it's
part of the science of getting these large
language models right. And I'm quite happy
with the direction we're going in, currently. HANNAH FRY: We got
to talk to Shane Legg a couple of weeks ago
about AGI, in particular. Across everything that's
happening in AI at the moment-- the language models, the world
models, and so on-- what's closest to your vision of AGI? DEMIS HASSABIS: I think,
actually the combination of-- obviously, there's Gemini 3,
which I think is very capable, but the Nano Banana Pro system
we also launched last week, which is an advanced version
of our image creation tool. What's really amazing
about that-- it has also Gemini under the hood, so it
can understand not just images. It sort of understands
what's going on semantically in those images. And people have been only
playing with it for a week now, but I've seen so much cool
stuff on social media about what people are using it for. So, for example, you can give
it a picture of a complex plane or something like
that, and it can label all the diagrams of all
the different parts of the plane and even visualize it with
all the different parts sort of exposed. So it has some deep
understanding of mechanics and what makes up parts of
objects, what's materials. And it can render text
really accurately now. So I think that's-- it's
getting towards a kind of AGI for imaging. I think it's a kind of
general-purpose system that can do anything
across images. So I think that's very exciting. And then the advances
in world models-- Genie and SIMA and
what we're doing there. And then, eventually,
we've got to converge all of those different--
they're different projects at the moment. And they're intertwined,
but we need to converge them all into one big model. And then that might
start becoming a candidate for proto-AGI. HANNAH FRY: I know
you've been reading quite a lot about the
Industrial Revolution recently. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes. HANNAH FRY: Are
there things that we can learn from what happened
there to try and mitigate against some of the disruption
that we can expect as AGI comes? DEMIS HASSABIS: I think
there's a lot we can learn. It's something you
study in school, at least in Britain, but in
a very superficial level. It was really interesting for
me to look into how it all happened, what it started
with, the economic reasons behind that, which is
the textile industry. And then the first computers
were really the sewing machines. And then they became punch cards
for the early Fortran computers, mainframes. And for a while, it
was very successful. And Britain became the
center of the textile world because they could make these
amazingly high-quality things for very cheap because
of the automated systems. And then, obviously, the steam
engines and all of those things came in. I think there's a lot
of incredible advances that came out of the
Industrial Revolution. So child mortality went
down, and all modern medicine and sanitary conditions, the
work-life split and how that all worked was worked out during
the Industrial Revolution. But it also came with
a lot of challenges, like it took quite a long
time, roughly a century. And different parts
of the labor force were dislocated
at certain times, and then new things
had to be created. New organizations like
unions and other things had to be created in
order to rebalance that. So it was fascinating to
see the whole of society had to, over time, adapt. And then you've got
the modern world now. So I think there were
lots of, obviously, pros and cons of the
Industrial Revolution, why it was happening,
but no one would want-- if you think about
what it's done in total, like abundance of food
in the Western world and modern medicine and all
these things, modern transport, that was all because of
the Industrial Revolution. So we wouldn't want to go back
to pre-Industrial Revolution, but maybe we can figure
out ahead of time, by learning from it, what those
dislocations were and maybe mitigate those earlier or
more effectively this time. And we're probably going to
have to because the difference this time is that it's probably
going to be 10 times bigger than the Industrial Revolution,
and it will probably happen 10 times faster,
so more like a decade, unfold over a decade,
than a century. HANNAH FRY: One of
the things that Shane told us was that the current
economic system where you exchange your labor for
resources, effectively, it just won't function the
same way in a post-AGI society. Do you have a vision of how
society should be reconfigured or might be reconfigured
in a way that works? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. I'm spending more time
thinking about this now, and Shane's actually
leading an effort here on that to think about what a
post-AGI world might look like and what we need to prepare for. But I think society,
in general, needs to spend more time thinking
about that-- economists and social scientists
and governments-- because as with the Industrial
Revolution, the whole working world and working
week and everything got changed from
pre-Industrial Revolution, more like agriculture. And I think at least
that level of change is going to happen again. So it's not surprising-- I don't would not be
surprised if we needed new economic systems,
new economic models, to basically help with that
transformation and make sure, for example, the benefits
are widely distributed, and maybe things like universal
basic income and things like that are part
of the solution. But I don't think
that's the complete-- I think that's just what
we can model out now because that would be almost an
add-on to what we have today. But I think there might be
something-- way better systems, more like direct
democracy-type systems, where you can vote with a
certain amount of credits or something for
what you want to see. It happens, actually, on
local community level. Here's a bunch of money. Do you want a playground
or a tennis court or an extra classroom
on the school? And then you let the
community vote for it. And then maybe you could
even measure the outcomes. And then the people that
consistently vote for things that end up being
more well-received, they have proportionally more
influence for the next vote. So there's a lot of
interesting things I hear economist friends of
mine who are brainstorming this. And I think that
would be great if we had a lot more work on that. And then there's the
philosophical side of it of, OK, so jobs will change and
other things like that, but maybe fusion will
have been solved. And so we have this
abundant, free energy, so we're post-scarcity. So what happens to money? Maybe everyone's better off. But then what
happens to purpose? Because a lot of people get
their purpose from their jobs and then providing
for their families, which is a very noble purpose. So there's a lot of-- I think some of these questions
blend from economic questions into almost
philosophical questions. HANNAH FRY: Do you
worry that people don't seem to be paying
attention or moving as quickly as you'd like to see? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, I am-- HANNAH FRY: What would
it take for people to recognize that we need
international collaboration on this? DEMIS HASSABIS: I am
worried about that. And, again, in an
ideal world, there would have been a lot
more collaboration already and international,
specifically, and a lot more research and, I guess,
exploration and discussion going on about these topics. I'm actually pretty
surprised there isn't more of that
being discussed, given even our timelines,
which there were there some very short
timelines out there, but even ours are
five to 10 years, which is not long for
institutions or things like that to be built to handle this. And one of the worries I have
is that the institutions that do exist, they seem to be very
fragmented and not very influential to the level
that you would need. So it may be that there
aren't the right institutions to deal with this currently. And then, of course, if you add
in the geopolitical tensions that are going on at the
moment around the world, it seems like collaboration and
cooperation is harder than ever. Just look at climate
change and how hard it is to get any agreement
on anything to do with that. So we'll see. I think, as the
stakes get higher, and as these systems
get more powerful-- and maybe this is one of
the benefits of them being in products, is the
everyday person that's not working on this
technology will get to feel the increase in
the power of these things and the capability. And so that will then
reach government, and then maybe they'll see
sense as we get closer to AGI. HANNAH FRY: Do you think it
will take a moment, an incident, for everyone to sit
up and pay attention? DEMIS HASSABIS: I don't know. I mean, I hope not. Most of the main labs
are pretty responsible. We try to be as
responsible as possible. That's always something
we've-- as you know, if you followed
us over the years, that's been at the heart
of everything we do. Doesn't mean we'll
get everything right, but we try to be as
thoughtful and as scientific in our approach as possible. I think most of the major labs
are trying to be responsible. Also, there's good commercial
pressure, actually, to be responsible. If you think about
agents, and you're renting an agent
to another company, let's say, to do something,
that other company is going to want to
know what the limits are and the boundaries are and the
guardrails are on those agents, in terms of what they might do
and not just mess up the data and all of this stuff. So I think that's good because
the more kind of cowboy operations, they won't get the
business because enterprises won't choose them. So I think the capitalist system
will actually be useful here to reinforce responsible
behavior, which is good. But then there will be rogue
actors, maybe rogue nations, maybe rogue organizations,
maybe people building on top of open source. I don't know. Obviously, it's very
difficult to stop that. Then something may go wrong. And hopefully it's
just medium sized, and then that will be a warning
shot to humanity across the bow. And then that might be
the moment to advocate for international standards
or international cooperation or collaboration, at least
on some high-level, basic-- kind of, what's
the basic standards we would want and agree to? I'm hopeful that that
will be possible. HANNAH FRY: In the long
term, so beyond AGI and towards ASI, Artificial
Superintelligence, do you think that there
are some things that humans can do that machines will
never be able to manage? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, I think
that's the big question. And I feel like this is
related to-- as you know, one of my favorite topics
is Turing machines. I've always felt this, that
if we build AGI, and then use that as a simulation
of the mind, and then compare that
to the real mind, we will then see what
the differences are and potentially
what's special and remaining about the human mind. Maybe that's creativity. Maybe it's emotions. Maybe it's dreaming,
consciousness. There's a lot of hypotheses out
there about what may or may not be computable. And this comes back to the
Turing machine question of, what is the limit
of a Turing machine? And I think that's the central
question in my life, really, ever since I found out about
Turing and Turing machines. And I fell in love with that. That's my core passion. And I think everything
we've been doing is pushing the notion
of what a Turing machine can do to the limit,
including folding proteins. And so it turns out, I'm
not sure what the limit is. Maybe there isn't one. And, of course, my
quantum computing friends would say there are limits, and
you need quantum computers to do quantum systems. But I'm really not so sure. And I've actually discussed that
with some of the quantum folks. And it may be that we need
data from these quantum systems in order to create a
classical simulation. And then that comes back
to the mind, which is, is it all classical
computation, or is there something else going on, like
Roger Penrose believes there's quantum effects in the brain? If there are, and that's what
consciousness is to do with, then machines will never
have that, at least the classical machines. We'll have to wait
for quantum computers. But if there isn't, then
there may not be any limit. Maybe in the
universe, everything is computationally tractable if
you look at it in the right way, and therefore,
Turing machines might be able to model
everything in the universe. I'm currently-- if you
were to make me guess, I would guess that. And I'm working on that
basis until physics shows me otherwise. HANNAH FRY: So there's nothing
that cannot be done within these computational [INAUDIBLE]? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, no one's-- put it this way. Nobody's found anything in the
universe that's non-computable, so far. HANNAH FRY: So far. DEMIS HASSABIS: And
I think we've already shown you can go way beyond
the usual complexity theorist P equals NP view of what a
classical computer could do today, things like protein
folding and Go and so on. So I don't think anyone
knows what that limit is. And, really, if you
boil down to what are we doing at DeepMind and
Google and what I'm trying to do is find that limit. HANNAH FRY: But then
in the limit of that, though, is that-- in
the limit of that idea is that we're sitting here. There's the warmth of
the lights on our face. We hear the whir of the
machine in the background. There's the feel of the
desk under our hands. All of that could be replicable
by a classical computer? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes. Well, I think, in the
end, my view-- and this is why I love Kant, as well, all
of my two favorite philosophers, Kant and Spinoza, for
different reasons. But Kant, the reality is
the construct of the mind. I think that's true. And so, yes, all of those
things you mentioned, they're coming into
our sensory apparatus, and they feel different-- the warmth of the light,
the touch of the table. But in the end, it's
all information, and we're
information-processing systems. And I think that's
what biology is. This is what we're trying
to do with isomorphic. That's how I think we'll end
up curing all diseases is by thinking about biology as an
information-processing system. And I think, in the end,
that's going to be-- and I'm working on,
in my spare time, my two minutes of spare time,
physics theories about things like information being the
most fundamental unit, shall we say, of the universe--
not energy, not matter, but information. And so it may be that these are
all interchangeable in the end, but we just sense it. We feel it in a different way. But as far as we know, all these
amazing sensors that we have, they're still computable
by a Turing machine. HANNAH FRY: But this is why your
simulated world is so important. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, exactly,
because that would be one of the ways to get to it. What's the limits of
what we can simulate? Because if you can simulate
it, then, in some sense, you've understood it. HANNAH FRY: I wanted to finish
with some personal reflections of what it's like to be
at the forefront of this. I mean, does the emotional
weight of this ever sort of wear you down? Does it ever feel
quite isolating? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes. Look, I don't sleep
very much, partly because there's too
much work, but also I have trouble sleeping. It's very complex emotions
to deal with because it's unbelievably exciting. I'm basically doing
everything I ever dreamed of, and we're at the absolute
frontier of science in so many ways, applied science
as well as machine learning. And that's exhilarating,
as all scientists know, that feeling of
being at the frontier and discovering something
for the first time. And that's happening almost
on a monthly basis for us, which is amazing. But then, of course,
we, Shane and I and others who've been
doing this for a long time, we understand it better than
anybody the enormity of what's coming. And this thing about, it's still
under actually appreciated. In fact, what's going to happen
in more of a 10-year timescale, including to things like the
philosophical what it means to be human, what's
important about that? All of these questions
are going to come up. And so it's a big
responsibility. But we have an amazing team
thinking about these things. But, also, it's something I
guess, at least for myself, I've trained for my whole life. So ever since my early days
playing chess and then working on computers and games and
simulations and neuroscience, it's all been for
this kind of moment. And it's roughly what I
imagined it was going to be. So that's partly how I cope
with it is just training. HANNAH FRY: Are
there parts of it that have hit you harder
than you expected, though? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, for sure. On the way-- I mean,
even the AlphaGo match, just seeing how we
managed to crack Go. But Go was this beautiful
mystery, and it changed it. And so that was interesting
and bittersweet. I think even the more
recent things of language and then imaging, and what
does it mean for creativity? I have huge respect and
passion for the creative arts, having done game design myself,
and I talk to film directors. And it's an interesting
dual moment for them, too. On the one hand, they've got
these amazing tools that speed up prototyping ideas by 10X. But on the other
hand, is it replacing certain creative skills? So I think there's
these trade-offs going on all over the
place, which I think is inevitable with a
technology as powerful and as transformative as AI
is, as, in the past, electricity was and internet. And we've seen that that
is the story of humanity is we are tool-making animals. And that's what we love to do. And for some reason,
we also have a brain that can understand science and
do science, which is amazing, but also insatiably curious. I think that's the heart of
what it means to be human. And I think I've just had
that bug from the beginning. And my expression of trying
to answer that is to build AI. HANNAH FRY: When you and the
other AI leaders are in a room together, is there a sort of
sense of solidarity between you, that this is a group of people
who all know the stakes, who all really understand the things? Or does the competition keep
you apart from one another? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, yeah,
we all know each other. I get on with pretty
much all of them. Some of the others don't
get on with each other. And it's hard because
we're also in the most ferocious capitalist competition
there's ever been, probably. Investor friends of mine and VC
friends of mine who were around in the dotcom era say this is
10X more ferocious and intense than that was. In many ways, I love that. I mean, I live for competition. I've always loved that
since my chess days. But stepping back,
I understand, and I hope everyone
understands that there's a much bigger thing at stake
than just company successes and that type of thing. HANNAH FRY: When it
comes to the next decade, when you think about it,
are there big moments coming up that you're personally
most apprehensive about? DEMIS HASSABIS: I think,
right now, the systems are-- I call them passive systems. You put the energy in, as
the user-- the question, or what's the task? And then these
systems provide you with some summary
or some answer. So very much it's human-directed
and human energy going in and human ideas going in. The next stage is
agent-based systems, which I think we're going to
start seeing-- we're seeing now, but they're pretty primitive. In the next couple
of years, I think we'll start seeing some really
impressive, reliable ones. And I think those
will be incredibly useful and capable if you think
about them as an assistant or something like that. But also, they'll
be more autonomous. So I think the risks
go up, as well, with those types of systems. So I'm quite worried about
what those sorts of systems will be able to do maybe
in two, three years' time. So we're working on cyber
defense in preparation for a world like that, where
maybe there's millions of agents roaming around on the internet. HANNAH FRY: And what about what
you're most looking forward to? I mean, is there
a day when you'll be able to retire, knowing
that your work is done? Or is there more than a
lifetime's worth of work left to do? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. I always-- well, I could
definitely do with a sabbatical, and I would spend
it doing science. HANNAH FRY: Just
a week off, Demis. DEMIS HASSABIS:
Yeah, so a week off, or even a day would be good. But, look, I think
my mission has always been to help the world
steward AGI safely over the line for
all of humanity. So I think, when we get
to that point, of course, then there's superintelligence,
and there's post-AGI, and there's all the economic
stuff we were discussing and societal stuff, and maybe
I can help in some way there. But I think that will be
my core part of my mission, my life mission will be done. I mean, only a small job. Just get that over the
line, or help the world get that over the line. I think it's going to
require collaboration, like we talked earlier. And I'm quite a
collaborative person, so I hope I can help with that
from the position that I have. HANNAH FRY: And then you
get to have a holiday. DEMIS HASSABIS: And then I'll
have the-- yeah, exactly, a well-earned sabbatical. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, absolutely. Demis, thank you so much. DEMIS HASSABIS:
Thanks for having me. HANNAH FRY: As
delightful as always. Well, that is it for this
season of "Google DeepMind: The Podcast" with me,
Professor Hannah Fry. But be sure to subscribe so
you will be among the first to hear about our
return in 2026. And in the meantime, why
not revisit our vast episode library? Because we have covered
so much this year, from driverless
cars to robotics, world models to drug discovery--
plenty to keep you occupied. See you soon. [THEME MUSIC]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: -pGs0btGmgY (https://youtu.be/-pGs0btGmgY) ===


JOHN JUMPER: I saw this comment
from someone on Twitter saying, "How did they get a
copy of my structure?" How did they get-- how
did DeepMind this thing that I had done and
not yet published? They couldn't believe that
this was literally a machine doing years of painstaking
work, like, this, all at once, kind of a flash. So you go from this
broad hypothesis. There's some protein on the
surface of sperm that does this. AlphaFold says I
think it's this one. And then you go do your
detailed experiments to confirm. And now you can think about
questions like infertility. Now if you see mutations
in that protein, maybe that's a cause
of infertility. Maybe we can think
about treating that. [MUSIC PLAYING] HANNAH FRY: Welcome
to Google DeepMind-- The Podcast. I'm Professor Hannah Fry. Now, today, we are
talking about AlphaFold, one of the most extraordinary
technological breakthroughs in modern science,
a tool that has been described as
the most useful thing that AI has ever done. And in truth, that might
be an understatement. This is a Google DeepMind
AI system that solved one of biology's
grandest challenges, predicting the 3D
structures of proteins, the fundamental
building blocks of life. Its latest version,
AlphaFold 3 can now model the structure
and interactions of all of life's molecules
with unprecedented accuracy. And the impact has been seismic. AlphaFold has mapped hundreds of
millions of protein structures. And more than three million
researchers across 190 countries now use its database. It is transforming
drug discovery. And in 2024, the Nobel
Prize in chemistry was awarded to Google DeepMind's
Demis Hassabis and John Jumper, who is our guest
on today's podcast. Now, this is a
story that we have been following on this
podcast since season 1, which is nearly eight years ago, long
before it hit the headlines. So if you are coming to
AlphaFold for the first time and wondering what
all the fuss is about, you can find our previous
explainer episodes linked in the description. Welcome to the podcast, John. JOHN JUMPER: Oh, it's exciting. HANNAH FRY: I don't think
I've interviewed you since you won your Nobel Prize. Where were when you
found out about it? JOHN JUMPER: I stayed home
because I was nervous enough. I thought there was a chance,
like 1 in 10, a chance. And so I figured I would
be disappointed at home. And I was just
sitting in the bed. My original plan was
I'll sleep through it. And a phone call wakes me
up, then I've got the Nobel. But I couldn't sleep. HANNAH FRY: Because you
knew the day that the-- JOHN JUMPER: Oh yeah. HANNAH FRY: --phone
call might happen. JOHN JUMPER: You
know the day I knew. In fact, the kind of time
that it was scheduled to be announced at 11. I knew that winners were called
about an hour beforehand. So by about 10:30, I said, oh,
well, I guess not this year. And I told my wife, and
she goes, no, no, wait. And as she's telling me to wait,
my phone lights up with a phone call from Sweden. And thankfully, it was not the
world's meanest prank call. And yeah, it was just
this extraordinary thing. And you answer, and they say,
is Dr. John Jumper available? Yes. I have some wonderful news. Great. Can you please hold? So they get a [INAUDIBLE]. HANNAH FRY: What,
they make you hold? JOHN JUMPER: Well,
I think they were trying to reach-- part
of the problem was they didn't have either Demis
or my phone number initially. So anyway, they ended
up calling us very late. But then they were
finally arranging. And they pulled the person
on, and he says something like I have some
life-changing news. And they don't say the word
Nobel for like 60, 90 seconds, which was the longest
minute of my life, as there's no other
explanation for this call. And I remember the
very first thing I did is run to get a
shower because I knew I was going to get no time
for the rest of the day. But after that,
it was announced. You come in. You see the team. You have this
amazing celebration. We bought the local Waitrose
out of sparkling wine. HANNAH FRY: Only
the best will do. JOHN JUMPER: I'm
not a connoisseur. And we were celebrating
with friends. And there was just
this incredible party just across the floors
of our building. It was amazing. HANNAH FRY: The thing is it's
an extraordinary story of you as an individual. Because your first PhD, your
physics PhD, you dropped out. JOHN JUMPER: Yeah, yeah. HANNAH FRY: And so going
from that, which I think must have been quite a hard
experience to live through to like being a
Nobel Prize winner and having your tool being
used in tens of thousands of academic papers. JOHN JUMPER: I mean, I
will say dropping out was a very lucky thing for me. I was doing the wrong thing. I didn't really want to. And so I just left. And because I left,
I actually fell into this computational
biology group that was doing amazing work
on custom computer chips to simulate proteins. And then I go back and I
do my PhD now in chemistry by another set of accidents. And I didn't have
those great computers. So why not get into AI? Why not try and use
sophisticated algorithms to make up for a
lack of compute? I have to be the
first person to get into AI because of a lack
of computational capability rather than an abundance. And then I got
lucky enough to find a job that had something
to do with everything I'd ever tried to do in my past. And it worked out. And I get a Nobel. HANNAH FRY: Do people react
differently to you now then? JOHN JUMPER: Well, I think
there's all sorts of people. They're the people that
I did my chemistry PhD with who knew me as pretty good
physicist and a lousy chemist. There was the people that
I work with every day. And I'm still I think just
John, but now John with a Nobel. So he's busy. But then there are
all the people I meet. I'll get on phone calls. And a surprising number of
my phone calls start with, "It's such an honor
to speak with you." And I sometimes think
and also with you. There's a certain type
of deference or at least excitement, and it's a
symbol of this giant AI world and what it can mean
in terms of applying AI to solve real-world problems. And then you're a
Nobel Prize winner, so you're allowed to have
an opinion on anything. And it's supposed to be a
bit valid, even if it's not. So people want you to
show up to things just so that you can symbolize
that a Nobel Prize was won, and then you're done. Which is not a very satisfying
thing to do as a scientist. But you have this
platform that maybe you can use to affect how the
public thinks about science, how it funds science. So all of these
things roll together in this wild combination. And I'm, I would say,
roughly at the midpoint of my career in terms of
time since undergrad and time since rough retirement. And so I've got to figure out
what to do in the second half. It's a fair amount
to live up to. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, absolutely. And a lot of pressure
going on in that. Thing is that, I
mean, we're still only five years on from that
CASP breakthrough really when AlphaFold 2 smashed
the prediction challenge. Did you realize at the time
the potential significance of the work that you were doing? JOHN JUMPER: We were sure of
two things and totally unsure of some others. I think the two things
were pretty sure of-- all right, we were
very sure it worked, even before we entered CASP. We had measured very well. We knew about how
we would do in CASP. That we understood,
and we were careful. We knew that we had solved
this grand challenge. But the normal thought in a
grand challenge in science is that you'll solve it, and
it'll be a great celebration. And then you will go build
effective, useful systems that use the ideas that enabled
you to solve the grand challenge and that this was the
beginning of an era. I think the real shock
to me is those weights that we train, that system,
that piece of computer software has been so
incredibly, practically important to scientists working
in this field, to this day, that the actual bit
of software is used that makes this difference in
all these different application areas, all this different
type of science published on top of this as a
black-box computer program. And the extent to which that is
entered into scientific practice has been really, I think,
beyond my imagination. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, I mean,
it's really difficult to overstate the genuine
significance that this has had. I saw one thing where AlphaFold
was described as the most useful thing that AI has ever done. That hasn't sort of landed
with the public yet, has it? JOHN JUMPER: I think it's hard
for people to appreciate-- and you work in
science communication-- how very hard science is, how
very hard curing disease is. We have to work
extremely hard to get smaller bits of knowledge
about how, say, the cell works, how the body works. For protein structure
prediction or protein structure, what AlphaFold does, I
think it's hard for people to appreciate. This process takes
a year in the lab. I've seen PhD theses that are
progress toward determining the structure of x. And that doesn't mean
they finished it, just they feel like they're
a little bit closer, and they need to graduate. HANNAH FRY: Of one protein. JOHN JUMPER: Of one protein,
of one individual piece, and the notion that we'll turn
that work into a machine that gives you a really good
answer in five minutes. And then, that enables so much
more work downstream of it. I think there's something like-- I haven't looked at the
recent number, but 30,000, 35,000 different scientific
papers that cite AlphaFold, 35,000 different contributions
to our understanding of biology that build on top
of this advance. And I think the right
way to think of AlphaFold is not certainly that we've
solved all problems in biology. We very much haven't. I think for this
slice of biology that cares about what
structures in the cell look, structural biology, maybe
we've made it 10% faster overall across the whole thing. We've amplified this enormous
effort and societal expense. And then, ultimately, we will
have transformative science. And there are certain
narrow areas, say, protein design, that are
just being transformed by this understanding. HANNAH FRY: I think
one of the ways for me that really demonstrates
just how important this was, as a breakthrough, was
the way that biologists reacted when you published the
200 million protein structures. Just tell me a
little bit about that because you just
put it out there. JOHN JUMPER: Oh, yeah, yeah. So the original release was a
bit smaller, but it was still-- I think it was like 400,000. What I remember was,
there was maybe a week in between when we
had put out our code, and the real experts
were playing with it. And they were like this
really works on hard problems. But all the other biologists
were no, no, no, these can't be real hard
problems like I work on. And then, of course, we
put out this huge database, AlphaFold database. And people are like,
well, let me just see how dumb the AI
engine was and click on their protein of
interest, I think, expecting to make fun of it. And then they sat there,
and they were amazed. I saw this comment
from someone on Twitter saying, how did they get
a copy of my structure? How did DeepMind get
this thing that I had done and not yet published? Like they couldn't believe that
this was literally a machine doing years of
painstaking work like this all-at-once,
kind of a flash. And what was, I think,
also amazing about it is how rapidly this
turned into a community understanding of
what AlphaFold does, what it doesn't do,
for example, not sensitive to single
amino-acid changes, and how to build this
into their workflow and do work on top of it. I thought it would
take years for people to really figure out what's
the right way to build it in. How do I make sure that I look
at, the confidence measures where AlphaFold is saying, this
looks like a reliable answer, this doesn't? And this happened within
a matter of months, that science is a community,
that people develop this incredibly rapid,
not totally perfect, but actually really good
understanding very, very fast. And so people were
doing excellent science on top of AlphaFold. We released this in, I think,
July or something like that. And people were
almost immediately doing really excellent
science on top of it, that really cool work was coming
out by the end of that year. And I think that's just
a testament to how much scientists are looking for
really effective tools that help them push knowledge forward. And then, when they find
it, they use it well. HANNAH FRY: How do you
stay on top of the work that people are doing
with AlphaFold now? I mean, because it's
so embedded in the way that people do biology
now that, I mean, presumably they're not sending
you an email every time. JOHN JUMPER: Thank goodness. [LAUGHTER] I actually end up-- I still pretty often just
put the word "AlphaFold" into searching on
whatever, X, or-- and just see the random work. What I love is the random
things that pop up that says, oh, we use this to
do this weird thing. I think the other way,
one of the nice things about being at a company is
if really cool things happen, someone will notice, and they'll
post it to this chat room that we have to collect various
things that people find cool. And so it's so valuable to
collect that experience, and it's so much fun. You feel this kind of
vicarious ownership of a little bit of that work. HANNAH FRY: Well, OK. Tell me then, What is the most
random, unusual use of AlphaFold that you've come across? JOHN JUMPER: One
that I really love is this protein in bumblebees. And they're trying to understand
bumblebee populations, reproduction, but their
biology to try and enable pollination and understand
things like colony collapse. And so, in fact, there were
some important proteins involved in the
honeybee lifecycle that they were studying
with AlphaFold. And you can see ultimately
how this kind of leads on to bee conservation. And I think it's so interesting
to see the structural biology of this echoing into all these
things that we care about, from food to industrial
production to everything else. They're all connected
because it's all the same biology, right? Plants, animals, they have
basically the same proteins. We were definitely thinking
most about human health. We weren't thinking,
How am I going to help, honeybee populations? But here we are. There was another
really nice story that people were
trying to understand-- human fertilization. When an egg and a sperm meet
and come together and eventually fuse. HANNAH FRY: They want to
find the exact proteins that are involved in sperm
sticking to eggs, right? JOHN JUMPER: In sperm
sticking to egg. And they, I think, had the full
picture of all the egg proteins, but not of all the
sperm proteins. In fact, there were
two independent groups that did this. And they said, well, there were
only 2,000 proteins that we know that are on the
outside of sperm. Why don't we just
try all of them and see which ones
stick to the proteins that we know are on egg? And if you think about doing
this experimentally, that's like, well, I'll spend
the next two millennia-- HANNAH FRY: [LAUGHS]
100,000 each. JOHN JUMPER: --a year at a
time, $100,000 each in the next millennium, and I'll get
a nice paper in "Nature." That's not a feasible approach. But AlphaFold is pretty fast. And they had some
computers available, so they tried all of them. And they both came out with this
one protein, TMIM-something. I can't remember the number. But this was the one that they
didn't know what it did before, and now they find out. It's AlphaFold says
it sticks to the egg, and that this is how the
first step of fertilization. And so, of course, they don't
just trust AlphaFold, right? It's a computational system. So they went and
they said, Well, what happens if I
remove that protein, or if I change that protein? They find if they change that
protein or remove that protein, then sperm and egg will get
close, but they won't fertilize. HANNAH FRY: Whoa! JOHN JUMPER: So you go from
this broad hypothesis-- there's some protein on the
surface of sperm that does this. AlphaFold says, I
think it's this one. And then you go do your
detailed experiments to confirm. And now you can think about
questions like infertility. Now, if you see mutations
in that protein, maybe that's a cause
of infertility. Maybe we can think
about treating that. And we go, I think,
from rough hypothesis, AlphaFold in the middle,
confirm with experiment. And now maybe we
can think ultimately about something like drug
design on top of this. But we have to get this
biological understanding first, that we bring meaning to all
those pieces in the cell. And that's what
AlphaFold, I think really helps with
in the early stages, is bringing meaning to
the parts of the cell. And then, later,
companies like Isomorphic use it in order to build
small molecules that have targeted effects. HANNAH FRY: We should
talk about the difference between AlphaFold 2 and
AlphaFold 3, though, right? Because, I mean,
AlphaFold 2 was predicting the structure of proteins from
these strings of amino acids. But of course, biology
isn't only about proteins. You've got all of these
other biomolecules. You've got DNA. You've got RNA. You've got small drug
molecules, for example. You've got ions,
charged particles, et cetera, all of these
interacting with each other. So how early in
the process did you know that you needed to
change the fundamental model of AlphaFold 2 in
order to incorporate those additional molecules? JOHN JUMPER: So even before the
world knew about AlphaFold 2, we were sitting
there and dreaming. We were dreaming
for two reasons. One is that we had a
lot of, for example, proteins that exist naturally
in what are called complexes, multiple proteins
stuck together. And sometimes
there's no real way to predict their structure
without predicting them all together. So we're already thinking about
this multi-protein problem. For example, as you say,
bind drugs, small molecules, maybe 20 atoms. You can think of aspirin, right? Sticks to a protein. And we knew that this
was really important. And we said, but later. And we started to talk
about this kind of dream, about this goal, we
would call whole PDB. So the Protein Data Bank, the
PDB, is the data source we use. But we take it in, and we
threw away a lot of the things. Oh, this has RNA or DNA
attached to the protein. Well, let's throw away the RNG
or DNA and just have AlphaFold predict the protein. HANNAH FRY: Because you can't
handle those extra molecules. JOHN JUMPER: We couldn't
handle that complexity that we were very
driven by-- we have 20 amino acids that produces
20 types of structures. And then we will
predict, and all our code was kind of based around that. We're like, it's a
challenge for later, but eventually,
we'll start doing it. And one of the things we
almost immediately realized is a lot of the decisions
we made in AlphaFold were very good and very
helpful and very annoying to extend to more
complicated things. The other bit of work is that
we were trying to figure out how to simplify AlphaFold. We thought, OK, well,
AlphaFold is complicated, but maybe there are some
things we can remove. HANNAH FRY: How has
the architecture shifted from AlphaFold
2 to AlphaFold 3 then? JOHN JUMPER: So there's
a lot of changes, but I would say there's
two big themes of changes. When we were trying
to handle much more of the DNA, small
molecules, et cetera, we adopted this thing
called a diffusion architecture, a different way in
which we handle our uncertainty. And I can tell you
more about that. But then I think the
other one was really thinking a lot about the role of
evolution and evolutionary data. HANNAH FRY: Well, let me
ask you about that then because this is
one of the things that I remember being
quite key to AlphaFold 2, this idea that
actually proteins have evolved in lots
of different creatures numerous times. And actually,
there is some clues about their evolutionary
history that will indicate where amino
acids are likely to end up in the final folded shape. So that even if you're starting
with a string of amino acids, you're not going in totally
blind, because, I mean, this sort of stuff
has happened before. That ended up being quite
a key part of the model. But it was also, I
think, potentially one of the parts that made
the model quite, I don't know, inflexible to other molecules. Is that fair? JOHN JUMPER: So AlphaFold 2
used evolutionary information in this exuberant way at every
part of almost every block, it was saying, and here's the
evolutionary information in case you need it. But a lot of what we
studied in AlphaFold 3 that we knew we
were moving toward didn't have evolutionary
information. So we were shouting
at it with nothing. And we were kind of worried
that this was both slowing down the network, but also possibly
leading to some bad dynamics in how it works. And so we decided to just take
that out of most of the network and otherwise, emphasize the
geometric information, the thing that really is always there. And that turned out to work
exceedingly well, actually, better than we expected. HANNAH FRY: I wonder
if there's an analogy that we can use here for the
difference in this architecture. Let's imagine that you're
planning a wedding, and you've got to do the seating
plan for the entire wedding, right? And you have all
of these guests-- those are your amino acids. [LAUGHS] And you
have to work out where each one's going to sit. And there's a couple
of different ways you can think about this. So you could think about
pairwise interactions. So this person sitting
next to this person, is that a good interaction? But then what does that mean
for this person over here or that table over there? But you could also
potentially think about the history of what
you know about those people. How am I doing so
far as an analogy? JOHN JUMPER: I can go for this. I think some people
went to school together. Some people used to date
and had a terrible breakup, those might be-- HANNAH FRY: Don't
sit them together. JOHN JUMPER: You
probably don't want to sit them right
next to each other, unless you're really
looking for sparks. But before, we just talked about
where the wedding guests sit, now we think about where
the flower arrangements are. HANNAH FRY: That's nice. JOHN JUMPER: Right? That we think about
all these other things that come together to
become the reception dinner. HANNAH FRY: In
this analogy then, AlphaFold 2 was very focused
on the history of the guests. It was continually checking,
looking at where they might best fit based on their past. And that's great for
proteins, but it's difficult once you try and include other
elements of the reception. And once you start bringing
in other biomolecules, you don't want to focus
so much on history. JOHN JUMPER: I think
that's all true. I think one thing,
though, I would say, is that we always made
this history available, this evolutionary history
and the analogy, what we know about their past. And what we would find is
that AlphaFold, we think, was not relying on it much other
than at the very beginning, that it was like saying,
oh, well, these people should probably be together. These people should
probably be apart. I know a couple of things. But then it kind of trained
itself to ignore it. And so by inspecting and seeing
that we're probably not using that information, maybe we
should stop attaching it constantly into the processing. HANNAH FRY: But
then, as a result, you managed to massively
simplify the model. JOHN JUMPER: Well, I wouldn't
say we massively simplified, but we made it
massively more accurate and suddenly we were
doing new problems. And in fact, we made
light adjustments, and then we made a
much better model. And then it turned out that even
that protein-protein problem-- something that has
nothing to do with ligands or nucleic acids
or anything else-- even that protein-protein
problem got massively better from this kind of
science and improvement. So diffusion is
this different idea in how you train
a neural network. So the AlphaFold 2
system was really heavily based around
proteins, around the kind of shape of a protein backbone. In AlphaFold 3, we
went to diffusion, where you basically say, here's
a blurry image of the protein. I took all of the protein and
added some noise, some error, like you looked at it in the
wrong prescription glasses. And then it guess
the right answer, and you have it
constantly refined. And so what this gave us was
a really great understanding of local geometry, of how
to make things extremely precise because that's what
it does at small scales. And this way of
tackling big systems. And that gave us a
kind of new approach that we didn't have to get
so involved in the details of exactly how proteins
look, because they're different than DNA. They're different than
RNA and small molecules. And the upside is that
it made it really, really easy to handle this
wide universe of things that we study. The downside is that it led to
a higher rate of hallucination of weird stuff appearing. And so then we needed to
handle that in different ways. HANNAH FRY: Well, this is
one of the big differences between AlphaFold 2 and
AlphaFold 3, that you have this introduction of
the stochasticity, the potential for
hallucinations. How much should people
be concerned about that when they're using it? Is there a danger that they
think because AlphaFold 2 was so on the money, that they
think of AlphaFold 3 as though it's some
kind of oracle? JOHN JUMPER: I think one
of the wonderful things about biologists is that as
scientists, they're deeply skeptical of their tools. AlphaFold 2 did
have an advantage that wrong answers
often look stupid. No one looked at that and said,
that's definitely a protein. Whereas wrong answers
in AlphaFold 3 are sometimes more plausible. But I think that
people have gotten really good-- not uniformly
perfect, but really good at saying, well,
AlphaFold 2 is also telling me how accurate
it thinks it is and the confidence measure. I should also use that. And so it's this kind
of social knowledge. There's no experiment
or tool that scientists use that is without
limitation, right. Even experimental
structure determination has all these known faults. And so scientists, I think,
use it relatively well. I haven't seen any from
people using AlphaFold 3, I think because it's now
such a part of the education and community of
scientists that, when you use computational methods,
here are the confidence measures you look at. We color our proteins
by confidence. And ultimately, we
also think of it as a tool where it
will induce hypotheses. And we'll test those
hypotheses experimentally. And AlphaFold 2 is not
perfect by any means. It's just very, very useful. HANNAH FRY: How important is
interpretability in all of this? I mean, this idea
that humans want to understand why
AlphaFold is folding a protein in a particular way. JOHN JUMPER: There's a
lot of interest in it. And you will hear
people sometimes make very confident
pronouncements that, we can only use AI
systems if we perfectly understand what they do. And they almost mean
if I can write down an algorithm that I could use
instead of that AI system. And I think it's this desire of
that's an annoying black box. What if it just
wasn't a black box? And I kind of feel
like that narrow demand for we must understand
it perfectly, is honestly kind
of a weird demand. And I think about cases in which
we've been perfectly happy not having that in science. One, for example, is just
experimental science, in general. If you look at, say, how
someone crystallizes a protein, early in crystallography,
it wasn't clear if those structures were going
to look just like a free protein floating in liquid. And more experiments kind
of said, most of the time it's about right. So we always, in
science, totally worked in this kind of
partial interpretability way. I think there's really good
applications of interpretability when we think about, OK, I want
to understand the network so that I can change
it and make a better version of, say, AlphaFold. And I describe some
stories earlier about how we do that kind of work. Some people will say, well,
I want interpretability so I can trust it. I think more important
than that is, if you really want to know
whether you trust an answer, well, we have pretty
good characterization that are confidence metrics
or a reliable guide. People use them in
practice to decide when an answer is probably true. In fact, I'd love to see a lot
more interpretability work go on for AlphaFold. What exactly leads it
to generalize so widely? I think there
could be more done. But that won't necessarily
give people what they think it will give them. HANNAH FRY: I think
sometimes if I-- OK, the Romans,
for example, were building bridges and
aqueducts without having a full understanding
of gravity, right? They didn't have
Newton's equations. Is there a way in
which AlphaFold here is Roman building, Roman
engineering, but for biology? Like, we are able to build
stuff now with the tools that you and your
team are creating, even though we don't necessarily
have full insight into why they're working. JOHN JUMPER: I mean, Romans are
way back in order to do this. HANNAH FRY: I mean,
this feels very-- JOHN JUMPER: Think
about a modern jet airplane or a modern car. We understand, the
Navier-Stokes equations of fluid dynamics, et cetera,
a bit about turbulence. Despite that low-level
understanding, we both build wind
tunnels to measure flow, and we build simulations that,
for this precise wing geometry, show you how the
air goes over it. I think the Roman
bridge-building is maybe a better analogy of how
we do AI development, where we have some
intuitions, just like the Romans had intuitions. And they built some
beautiful bridges, but they didn't have
all the equations and full understanding. And yet they built
things they needed, and yet they were
able to drive carts across the bridge they built.
So we are, in that sense, operating partially
intuitionally in AI. But downstream, the people
using tools like AlphaFold, I think it's more like having
a great computation package that maybe you don't
exactly understand. Your expertise is not exactly
in how this airflow results in turbulence, but
then you figure out how to change it
and adapt, and you work with this tool to do
your larger-scale science. And I think that's really the
slightly less Roman version of what AI users are doing. HANNAH FRY: Hey,
look, the Romans, there's no shade on the Romans. JOHN JUMPER: What have
the Romans given us? HANNAH FRY: Oh, exactly. [LAUGHS] Exactly right. OK, well, let's talk about
some of those downstream applications, because
earlier this year, I got to speak to Max Jaderberg
and Rebecca Paul from Isomorphic Labs about how they're
using your AlphaFold tool in drug design. What has that been
like to see this thing that you guys built
actually being implemented in drug design in that way? JOHN JUMPER: I think it's
just really extraordinary to see it carried so far. And to be a part of-- one of
the things about drug design is it's not just protein
structure prediction. I like to remind people that a
protein structure costs about $100,000, and a drug costs
about $1 billion, right? So that can tell you that it
can't all be protein structure determination. I think it's really exceptional
to see people trying to build on and take these
ideas further and really find also a way in order to
integrate it into application. And we see this across
the farm like, how are we going to build processes
around this that enable us to ultimately
end up with molecules that are dosed in patients that
pass all these different things? Some will help with, how
does the molecule stick or what is the biology? Is this protein a target at all? And some that we have
very little to do with. Will this drug be
metabolized in the liver. Maybe there's a protein,
small-molecule interaction that you can use to help that. But for the most part, AlphaFold
is probably not the tool. And I think it's
really important that we have, both the work in
how do we understand biology and then the work and
specifically how do we make molecules to drug targets. It's an exciting combination. HANNAH FRY: I think
one of the things that I hadn't quite
appreciated until having that conversation with
them is actually finding a molecule to bind to a
particular protein target is such a small subset
of curing disease, I mean, Alzheimer's is
an example where we know that proteins are involved, but
there isn't even necessarily a place to target yet. JOHN JUMPER: Well,
we don't even know-- we still don't know if
amyloid beta accumulation is-- HANNAH FRY: That
this is the protein. JOHN JUMPER: --in
the causal chain. Is it a symptom? That's a protein,
but breaking that up, I mean there's been starting
to see a bit of effect. I think it's an example of one
of the most important things to say. If you think about finding a
drug that sticks to a protein, finding a drug that's
non-toxic, at least for the most part, in animal models,
doing all these hard stages of early drug design,
that we rightly say are very, very difficult.
Take people off in years. But the bigger
problem to me is even when you do all that, 90% of
drugs fail in clinical trials. So even though you do
all those things right, they still don't work, or
they're still not safe. We determine this
experimentally. And a lot of this is our
grand ignorance of biology, that we don't know the causes
of Alzheimer's, of autism, even when we have
ideas of cause. For example, Huntington's with
very clear genetic correlates-- still, making a molecule that
actually makes those patients' lives better is
so very difficult. There are so many
giant problems left. We're only starting this
world of computational biology or well, continuing, let's say. But still, there's so much left. HANNAH FRY: Well, let
me understand that then. So give me an example of a
way that AlphaFold can be used to help understand disease. JOHN JUMPER: One case study
I like from AlphaFold, one that is somewhat recent. People were trying to
understand how cholesterol is moved around the body. And there is this
protein that is involved in the transport of fatty
molecules from one location to another. I believe it is
also found in some of the plaques that build
up that are correlated to heart disease. And even, as we start to
understand that biology, and we have this nice piece
that AlphaFold contributed the detailed structure
of this molecule, that they could only take an
extraordinarily fuzzy picture with a method called
cryoelectron microscopy, which is not an uncommon outcome
for that technique. But then that fuzzy piece
actually really well matched with the
AlphaFold structure. So now you can
say, OK, well, this is that thing that is
moving cholesterol. Maybe I can interfere with or
change how it moves cholesterol. Maybe I can add
a small molecule. But of course, your
first thing you might say, well,
that's the protein. Why don't you just add
a drug that blocks it? And I think you would
immediately find out, that would be really bad. Your body didn't have
this protein by accident. The purpose of this protein
is not to cause heart disease. The protein purpose of this is
to move fatty molecules where they need to be in the cell. HANNAH FRY: You
sort of need that. JOHN JUMPER: You
sort of need that. You're going to need that. So what you're actually going to
need to figure out how to do is, how might-- this gives
you some new ideas to change how this
behaves in the cell without killing the patient
and making their life better? And I think AlphaFold
is a part of that story. It's not the end. HANNAH FRY: It feels like
there's a natural next step to all of this, though. If you are like predicting
the shape of proteins and then using those
models to interpret the function of proteins
in the human body, does it then go on to
designing new proteins? JOHN JUMPER: Oh, yeah,
people have wanted-- they've looked at these
beautiful proteins, and they said, I wish
humans could do that. And so there's been all
this exceptional work. And in fact, a lot of it done
at David Baker's lab, who with Demis and I won the Nobel. And AlphaFold has
actually been shockingly transformative at this,
that saying, Well, how do we go from
now we've built these computational
systems that understand it, how are we going to
design our own proteins? And in fact, a large portion
of new approved drugs are proteins, normally
antibodies, discovered initially in very interesting ways,
injecting mice or llamas with something that you want
to build a protein against and using their natural
immune system to find it. But we are starting to talk
very seriously about, how are we going to design proteins
to have the effect we want? And it turns out that
the most important part of that is that you can
design many things you think might work. It's extraordinarily--
it takes a long time. It's difficult. It's
expensive to test in the lab. So what's been so important
there is using AlphaFold as a proxy for nature
is trying to say, how do we integrate AlphaFold
understanding of how proteins stick together when they do? How do we use that
to maximally make a signal for protein design? And people have gotten
extraordinarily successful. They've gotten really, really
good at getting proteins to stick just where they want. HANNAH FRY: Wow! OK, but hang on
because that wasn't the original intention
of AlphaFold to see how proteins stick together. JOHN JUMPER: Wasn't
the intention of them to see how they stick together. In fact, that was an early
surprise from Twitter, where two different
people said, if you want to know if two proteins
stick together-- yeah, we were busy making a
multi-protein, properly-done system. They said, well, just
take those two proteins and put some random
amino acids in the middle and see if they stick
together that way. And that was the best system
in the world for seeing if proteins stick together. HANNAH FRY: Wow! JOHN JUMPER: We
didn't think we were making a system that
could help people design proteins in a really deep way. We thought we would go use
this fundamental breakthrough and go on and do it. And then people said,
actually, it already works. And I think it was this
grand story that does show up again and again in AI. So maybe we should
have expected it, that if you train a model to be
really, really good at a task, it has to learn a
lot of deep facts. If you want to be really
good at structure prediction, learns some deep facts
about how proteins interact. And if you do just
the right experiments, you can access that knowledge. But there was this
whole field of what I think people started
to call AlphaFoldology, where people would find
out which things worked. They would just treat it as
this really cool black box that they could start
experimenting with and try their own ideas on. And I think there was a
lot of really great science that has been and continues
to be done in that vein. We're still figuring
out, there's starting to be work on how do
we make enzymes proteins that do chemistry? How do we do really complicated,
sophisticated stuff? Nature would still laugh
at us and our ability to design proteins. But we are starting to develop
these really interesting tools that are maybe therapeutics
that are also maybe ways to interrogate
the cell, that you can bring two proteins together
and see how the cell changes because you do that. I think we'll get this interplay
in, not only the tools we use for therapeutics, but now
our ability to poke the cell and exciting ways
to interrogate it. And every time we
develop that, we'll develop a more interventional
understanding of the cell that we will bring forward to
medicine and synthetic biology. HANNAH FRY: Is this AlphaProteo
that you're describing here? JOHN JUMPER: So
AlphaProteo is Google DeepMind's internal effort
to do protein design and thinking about problems
in binding and enzymes, and really trying to
figure out, especially for these super hard problems,
how do we get reliable systems? And I think what we're seeing
is in the design space still, is a lot of success. But when you're actually
designing proteins, you have to go to the
lab and test them. There's no other
way to find out. And then finding
out the right ways that to predict if
they're going to work. And the AlphaProteo
work has shown that we can get further
and further in doing this. HANNAH FRY: Give
me an example then of some of the type
of proteins that are the target, that it would
be nice to be able to design? JOHN JUMPER: You know what? I think if you ask
any protein designer, they will have a favorite. And their favorite
is really, can we make proteins do things
like carbon capture? Can we actually build enzymes
that meaningfully contribute to address climate change? I think other ones
that you really see, for example, degrading
microplastics or environmental plastics. I think one of the things also,
though, I'll say is a caution, is that, for all of these--
when you talk about doing a real application, just like-- people's conception of drug
design is get molecule to stick, drug design done, right? And that's not the case. There's so many more
properties you need. You need it to be tolerable
in all these ways. You need it to be
pill form relatable. You need all these other things. Similarly, in enzymes,
you might think, oh, well, you just need to
make this reaction happen. An enzyme is a protein that
catalyzes the chemical reaction. But no, actually you needed to
be able to do this many times, enough that you're
not constantly having to make new
proteins for each reaction. You need it to be fast enough. You need it to not do
certain other reactions. You have all these
other properties. And I think there's a
lot more to be done, as we think about going
from, oh, maybe this is kind of interesting to
this really, really works. Although in fairness, actually,
interestingly on synthetically evolved enzymes, people
are already using them. There's a lot of washing powder
that has designed proteins, which I find fascinating. I think one of the few
applications of design proteins and something people
would recognize. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, absolutely. How much harder is it,
though, to engineer biology than it is-- to design
than it is to just predict? JOHN JUMPER: I'm very empirical. You should ask me in three
years, and we'll know. It's easier, and it's harder. One analogy I like
to say is if you're trying to figure out what an
object is, and you might say, is this a bicycle? And I would see two wheels,
a chain, some handlebars. And I would say, yeah,
that's a bicycle. But having two wheels,
a handlebar and a chain doesn't make something
a working bicycle. So when you're
designing something, you have to get all the details
right enough that it actually works. And I think we're still
figuring this out in proteins. And right now, protein
structure prediction is, let's say solved star, right? It's very, very useful system. It's not perfect. Design is not yet solved. But I think that it
is advancing rapidly. And I don't think
we'll be still talking about protein design as
incredibly difficult in 15 years. HANNAH FRY: Well, OK. Let's just zoom out a little
bit on AI and biology, more generally. Because this whole conversation,
it's reminded me of something that you said when we last
interviewed you a few years ago. And I've got a little clip that
I can play you of what you said. [VIDEO PLAYBACK] - I think it's really important
to remember that these are really powerful techniques
that we've developed that are still far short of a
real artificial intelligence, that you can talk about
thinking and making decisions and everything else. [END PLAYBACK] HANNAH FRY: I think
that's so interesting. So that was 2022, right? I wonder how you
reflect now on that. Do you think that machines are
beginning to understand biology in an intelligent way now? JOHN JUMPER: Have you changed
your mind I think that, whether or not they
can think, they're extraordinarily useful
for solving problems. How far they are
from AI or AGI, I think that's almost
beside the point. I think the really,
really interesting point is where we can
characterize these systems as reliable enough? Do we find useful
things for them to do? I think we need to be much more
kind of utilitarian about it. And certainly, machines
like AlphaFold, I wouldn't necessarily
apply the word, think. And I don't know if we're in the
situation that we used to say, OK, intelligence
was playing chess. And we should work on
chess because, once we have machines that
play chess, we've basically got intelligence. And of course, we got machines
that played chess really well in superhuman level in, what? 1994 was the Kasparov match. And that wasn't the path
that led us to machines that can read and write. And so I think we always reach
for these problems and say, well, this is the problem. Or people rather optimistically
name something humanity's last exam-- problems so hard
that if you solve it, there's no point in posing
problems to machines anymore. And I'm very interested in, how
do we find those problems that turn out to be so easy
in a certain sense, that we can do
incredibly on them and build very useful
systems before we build AGI? Those are the kind
of science problems. And of course, you want to use
related techniques of the people trying to build AGI. They're powerful
techniques, but we don't have to get tied
up in the philosophy. We can just build
useful systems. In fact, I think
the whole industry is thinking a lot about, how
do we build useful systems that matter for people
doing software development, that matter for
people doing writing, that expand the nature
of the problems we solve? And then we'll see if
we end up with AGI, but we will certainly end
up with useful systems. HANNAH FRY: So how about
the most useful system of all in biology? I mean, you have-- Google DeepMind have all
of these different systems for lots of aspects
of human biology, like AlphaFold, AlphaGenome,
AlphaProteo, and so on. Can you bring those
together in a single system? I mean, is there a goal here
to build a simulated cell? JOHN JUMPER: I used
to work in simulation. Simulation is that
I will write down the rules for how all the little
pieces do their little thing locally, and then
I'll put it all-- mash it together and turn a big
crank, and then I will get it. But we don't even have a
parts list for the cell. We have all these
effects that I think are not going to give us a
classical simulation simulated cell. I think what we're going to do
is build really useful systems that draw information
from AlphaFold, that draw information
from the literature, the draw information
from the genome, and use that to say really
useful things about biology that matter. And I think, quite
possibly, actually, one of the core
technologies of that will be finding the right
fusion of what we understand in narrow AI systems and
what we're understanding about broad machine learning in
terms of large language models. HANNAH FRY: I mean, how do you
bring those systems together? Is there ideas from
large language models that can be applied? JOHN JUMPER: I think very
easy to say is, oh well, we'll just have your large language
model call AlphaFold.exe as a tool. But I think there are
all these other problems like, OK, well, if AlphaFold
produces a structure? Can these large language models
actually understand structure really well? To what extent can they
understand these 3D coordinates as well as a human,
better than a human? How do they bring in information
from, say, DNA sequencing from all these others? I think it's far from trivial. How do we get these
deep integrations so that a model can understand
as much about proteins and protein structure
as AlphaFold, but also understand
the entirety, say, the biology literature? I'm kind of hopeful we'll get
there, but we have to build it. HANNAH FRY: Do you
think that there are aspects of biology
that are going to resist computational prediction? JOHN JUMPER: I think there
will certainly be aspects that if you ask deep
questions about evolution or the origin of life, what
data are you learning from? What experiments? You're going to have to
draw data very far away to answer that question. You might know something
about chemistry. You might be able to do these
experiments a bit faster, but you're certainly not
directly learning from data. Or we talk about evolution,
and we draw phylogenetic trees, but ultimately, we
just have the DNA of the species that exist
right now in a little bit into the past. These kinds of things I
think will be very hard. I think the other thing
that, though, will happen is that, as we build
these AI tools, the space of reasonable
hypotheses will narrow, that it will say, probably
not that for this reason, probably not that. And our experiments
will be better. In a certain kind
of Bayesian sense, our prior over what our
reasonable biological answers will narrow because of
our computational tools, and experiments will
help resolve them. And I think this interplay
will get tighter. And as we do more
experiments, or as we use AI to do things like protein
design, that gives us more tools to poke the cell, then we will
learn more, and we will do more. But I think we'll just see
some things will be harder and some things will be
easier, and the easier things will happen first. HANNAH FRY: [LAUGHS] The easier
things will happen first. John, thank you so
much for joining us. JOHN JUMPER: Absolutely. HANNAH FRY: Looking forward to
all those easy things falling. [LAUGHS] I think
it's really easy to have a very romantic
idea of science, right? That it's about uncovering the
hidden truths of the universe, that your aim as a researcher
is to build this picture, piece by piece, that can
help to understand the mechanisms of life. And that, I think, is
what makes John's ideas about interpretability
completely fascinating because that is
turning things completely on their head. AlphaFold is unashamedly
not about the "why" here. Instead, this is a tool
that can just reliably be used to accelerate the
work that scientists can do. And then I think when you
remember that John Jumper is only halfway through
his professional career as a scientist, and he's
already got one Nobel Prize, you realize he isn't necessarily
defending an old paradigm here. He is literally
building the next one. And if John's focus is
completely on utility, rather than understanding,
when the person who built the most useful
thing that AI has ever done tells you that that is
what really matters, well, you have to wonder if
he's just showing all of us where science is headed next. You have been listening
to "Google DeepMind-- The Podcast" with me,
Professor Hannah Fry. If you have enjoyed
this episode, then please do leave us
a comment or a review. And I should tell
you that, coming up, we have interviews with two of
Google DeepMind's co-founders, Demis Hassabis and Shane Legg. Trust me, you will
not want to miss them. So why not take the opportunity
to subscribe to our YouTube channel? See you soon. [MUSIC PLAYING]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: r4-hXO7MLVU (https://youtu.be/r4-hXO7MLVU) ===


[MUSIC PLAYING] SPEAKER: Scientists have for
decades been trying to predict how proteins fold
into 3D shapes. A fiendishly complex process
which could hold the key to understanding many diseases. [MUSIC PLAYING] The problem seems to have
been cracked by a company founded by a former child
Chess champion and gamer, Demis Hassabis. DEMIS HASSABIS: AlphaFold
represents a huge leap forward that I hope will really
accelerate drug discovery and help us to better
understand disease. PUSHMEET KOHLI: So we created
this AlphaFold database, which is 200 million
structures of almost all known proteins available to
anyone in the world for free. JOHN JUMPER: They've just
won the 2024 Nobel Prize for Chemistry. People were almost immediately
doing really excellent science on top of it. And I'm really
proud that AlphaFold is able to push forward
some of this work and be this reliable
tool that scientists use. PAULA BLAZQUEZ-SANCHEZ:
With my enzymes, it took eight months
to get a crystal. With AlphaFold, you get almost
the same model in four minutes. RENIER VAN DER HOORN:
I study plant diseases. AlphaFold has made
a huge difference in our field of science. We can now really
predict functions of proteins based
on their structures, and that was not
possible before. MAX JADERBERG: We're
already reducing the amount of experimental
cycles you need and reducing the amount
of lab time you need. And yeah, this is
just the beginning. DEMIS HASSABIS: We've
always hypothesized that AI should be
helpful to make these kinds of big scientific
breakthroughs more quickly. And I think AlphaFold has
woken up the scientific world to the possibility
of what AI could do. [MUSIC PLAYING]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: d95J8yzvjbQ (https://youtu.be/d95J8yzvjbQ) ===


Hi, Alpha. >> Hello. >> Can you help me write code? >> I was trained to answer questions, but I'm able to learn. >> That's very open-minded of you. >> Thank you. I'm glad you're happy with me. What's this guy doing? >> That's a developer. >> What do you think he's working on? >> That's a tough question. He might be working on a new feature, a bug fix, or something else. >> It's quite possible. >> Yes. >> Do you see my backpack? >> That's a bad mitten racket. >> It's a squash racket, but that's pretty close. That's a bad mitten racket. >> No, but you're not the first person to make that mistake. >> AI, a technology that [music] has been advancing at breakneck speed. >> Artificial intelligence is all the rage. >> Some are now raising alarms about >> it. Is definitely concerning. >> This is an AI arm choice. We don't know how this is all going to shake [music] out, but it's clear something is happening. >> I'm kind of restless. >> Trying to build [music] AGI is the most exciting journey in my opinion that humans have ever embarked on. If you're really going to take that seriously, there isn't a lot of time. Life's very short. My whole life's goal is to solve artificial general intelligence and on the way [music] use AI as the ultimate tool to solve all the world's most complex scientific problems. I think that's bigger than the internet. I think that's [music] bigger than mobile. I think it's more like the advent of electricity or fire. World leaders and artificial intelligence experts are gathering for the first ever global AI safety summit set to look at the risks of the fast growing technology. And also >> I think this is a hugely critical moment for all humanity. It feels like we're on the cusp of some incredible things happening. I can take you through some of the reaction in today's papers. >> AGI is pretty close. I think >> a huge interest in what it is capable of where it's taking us. >> This is the moment I've been living my whole life for. I've always been fascinated by the mind. So, I'd set my heart on studying neuroscience because I wanted to get inspiration from the brain for AI. >> I remember asking Demis, what's [music] the end game? you know, so you're going to come here and you're going to study neuroscience and you're going to get maybe get [music] a PhD if you work hard. Um, and he said, you know, I want to be able to solve AI. I want to be able to solve [music] intelligence. >> The human brain is the only existence proof we have perhaps in the entire universe that general intelligence [music] is possible at all. And I thought someone in this building should be interested in general intelligence like I am. and then Shane's name popped up. >> Our next speaker today is Shane Le. He's from New Zealand where he trained in math and classical ballet. Are machines actually becoming more intelligent? Some people say yes, some people say no. It's not really clear. We know they're getting a lot faster at doing computations, but are we actually going forwards in terms of general intelligence? >> We were both obsessed with AGI, artificial general intelligence. So today I'm going to be talking about um different approaches to building AGI >> with my colleague Deus. We're looking at ways to bring in ideas from theoretical neuroscience. >> I felt like we [music] were the keepers of a secret that no one else knew. Shane and I knew no one in academia would be supportive of what we were doing. AI was almost an embarrassing word to use in academic circles. Right? you if you said you were working on AI then you clearly weren't a serious scientist. So I convinced Shane the right way to do it would be to start a company. >> Okay, we're going to try to do artificial general intelligence. It may not even be possible. We're not quite sure how we're going to do it, but we have some ideas of the kind of approaches. Huge amounts of money, huge amounts of risk, lots and lots of compute. Um, and if we pull this off, it'll be the biggest thing ever, right? Uh, that is a very hard thing for a typical investor to to put their money on. It's almost like buying a lottery ticket. >> I'm going to be speaking about um systems neuroscience and um how it might be used to help us build AGI. Finding initial funding for this was very hard. We're going to solve all of intelligence. You can imagine some of the looks I got when we were pitching that around. So, I'm a VC and I I look at about 700 to a,000 [music] projects a year and I fund literally 1% of those about eight eight projects a year. So, that means 99% of the time you're in no mode. Wait a minute. I'm telling you this is the most important thing of all time. I'm giving you all this buildup how it explain you connects with the brain. Why are the times right now? And then you're asking me but what's your how are you going to make money? What's your product? It's like so prosaic and a question, you know, um, have you not been listening to what I'm saying? >> We needed investors who aren't necessarily going to invest because they think it's the best investment decision. They're probably going to invest because they just think it's really cool. >> He's the Silicon Valley version of the man behind the curtain in the Wizard of Oz. He had a lot to do with giving you [music] PayPal, Facebook, YouTube, and Yelp. If everyone says X, Peter Teal suspects that the opposite of X is quite possibly true. >> So Peter Teal was our [music] first big investor. But he insisted that we come to Silicon Valley because that was the only place we could there would be the talent and we could build that kind of company. But I was pretty adamant we should be in London cuz I think London's an amazing city. Plus I knew there were really amazing people trained at Cambridge and Oxford and UCL in Silicon Valley. Everybody's founding a company every year and then if it doesn't work, you chuck it and you start something new. That does not is not conducive to a long-term research um challenge. So we were totally an outlier for him. All right everyone, welcome to Deep Mind. So what is our mission? We summarize it as you know Deep Mind's mission is to build the world's first general learning machine. So we [music] always stress the word general and learning here the key things. Our mission was to build an AGI, an artificial general intelligence. And so that means that we need a system which is is general. Um it doesn't learn to do one specific thing. That's a really key part of human intelligence. We can learn to do many many things. >> It's going to of course be a lot of hard work, but one of the things that probably keeps me up at night is to not waste this opportunity [music] to, you know, to really make a difference here and have a big impact in the world. The first people that came and joined DeepMind already believed in the dream, but this was, I think, one of the first times they found a place full of other dreamers. >> You know, we collected this Manhattan project, if you like, together to solve AI. >> In the first two years, we were in total stealth mode. And so, we couldn't say to anyone what were we doing or where we worked. It was all quite vague. >> It had no public presence at all. You couldn't look at a website. The office was at a secret location. When we would interview people in those early days, they would show up very nervously. I had at least one candidate who said, "Um, I just messaged my wife to tell her exactly where I'm going just in case this turns out to be some kind of horrible scam and I'm going to get kidnapped." >> Well, my favorite new person who's an investor is who I've been working on for a year is Elon Musk. So, for those of you who don't know, that's what he looks like. And he hadn't really thought much about AI till until we we chatted. His mission is to die on Mars or something, but not an impact. So, [laughter] >> we made some big decisions about how we were going to approach building AI. >> This is a reinforcement learning setup, but this is the kind of setup that we think about when we're building when we say we're building, you know, an AI agent. There's basically the agent, which is the AI, and then there's the environment that it's interacting with. We decided that games, as long as you're very disciplined about how you use them, are the perfect training ground for uh AI development. >> We wanted to try to create one algorithm that could be trained up to play several dozen different Atari games. So, just like a human, you have to use your same the same brain to play all the games. >> You can think of it that you provide the agent with a cartridge and you say, "Okay, imagine you're born into that world with that cartridge and you just get to interact with the pixels and see the score. what what what can you do? >> So what you're going to do is take your Q function Q-learning is one of the oldest methods for reinforcement learning. And what we did was combine reinforcement learning with deep learning within one system. >> No one had ever combined those two things together at scale to do anything [music] impressive. And we needed to prove out this thesis. >> We tried doing Pong as a first game. It seemed like the simplest. It hasn't been told um anything about what it's controlling or what it's supposed to do. All it knows is that [music] score is good and it has to learn what the kids controls do and build [music] everything from sort of from first principles. >> It wasn't really working. >> I was just saying to like Shane, maybe we're just wrong. We can't even do pong. It was a bit nerve-wracking thinking how far we had to go if we were going to really build a generally intelligent system. >> And it felt like it was time to give up and move on. And then suddenly we got our first point, you know, and then was like, is this random? No, no, it's really getting a point now. >> It was really exciting that [music] this thing that previously couldn't even figure out how to move a paddle had suddenly been able to totally get it right. Then it was getting a few points and then it won its first game and then 3 months later no human could beat it. You hadn't told it the rules how to get the score nothing and you just tell it to maximize the score and it goes away and does it. This is the first time anyone had done this endto-end [music] learning. >> Okay. So we have this working in quite a general way. Now let's try another game. >> So then we try breakout. Now at the beginning after [music] 100 games the agent is not very good. It's missing the ball most of the time, but it's starting to get the hang of the idea that the bat should [music] go towards the ball. Now, after 300 games, it's about as good as any human can play this. We thought, well, that's pretty cool. But we left the system playing for another 200 games. And it did this amazing thing. It found the optimal strategy was to dig a tunnel around the side and put the ball around the back of the wall. >> Finally, the agent is actually achieving what you thought it would achieve. That is a great feeling, right? Like I mean when we do research that is the best we can hope for. We started generalizing to 50 games and we basically created a recipe. We could just take a game that we have never seen before. We would run the algorithm on that and DQN could train itself from scratch achieving human level or sometimes better than human level. We didn't build it to play any of them. We could just give it a bunch of games and would figure it out for itself. And and that there was something quite magical in that. Suddenly you had [music] something that would respond and learn whatever situation it was parachuted into. And that was like a huge huge breakthrough. It was in many respects the first example of any kind of thing you could call a general intelligence. >> Although we were wellunded startup holding us back was not enough compute [music] power. >> I realized that this would accelerate our time scale to AGI massively. >> I used to see DAS quite frequently. we'd have lunch and he did um say to me that he had two companies that were involved in in buying Deep Mind and he didn't know which one to go with. The issue was would any commercial company appreciate the real importance of the research and give the research time to come to fruition and not be breathing down their necks saying we want some kind of commercial [music] benefit from this. Google has bought DeepMind for a reported 400 million pounds, making the artificial intelligence firm its largest European acquisition so far. The company was founded [music] by 37year-old entrepreneur Demis Hazis. >> After the acquisition, I started mentoring and spending time with Demis [music] and just listening to him. And this is a person who fundamentally is a scientist and a natural scientist. He wants science to solve every problem in the world and he believes it can do so. That's not a normal person you [music] find in a tech company. We were able to not only join Google but run independently in London, build our culture which was optimized for breakthroughs uh and not deal with products, do pure research. Our investors didn't want to [music] sell, but we decided that this was the best thing for the mission. In many senses, we were underelling in [music] terms of value before it more matured and you could have sold it for a lot more money. And the reason is because there's no [music] time to waste. There's so many things that got to be cracked while the brain's still in gear. You know, I'm still alive. There's all these things that got to be done. So you haven't got I mean how many how many billions would you trade for another 5 years of life you know to to do what you what you what you set out to do. >> Okay all of a sudden we've got this massive scale compute available to us. What can we do with it? >> Go is the pinnacle of board games. It's the most complex game [music] ever devised by man. There are more possible board configurations in the game of Go than there are atoms in the universe. Go is the holy grail of artificial intelligence. For many years, people have looked at this game and they've thought, "Wow, this is just too hard. Everything we've ever tried in AI, it just falls over when you try the game of Go." And so that's why it feels like a real litmus test of progress. We had just bought Deep Mind. They were working on reinforcement learning and they were the world's experts in games. And so when they introduced the idea that they could beat the top level Go players in a game that was thought to be incomputable, I thought, well, that's pretty interesting. >> Our ultimate next step is [music] to play the legendary Lee Sudol in just over 2 weeks. >> A match like no other is about to get underway in South Korea. >> Lee Doll is getting ready to rumble. >> Lisa Doll is probably one of the greatest players of the last decade. I describe him as the Roger Federer of Go. >> I showed up and all of a sudden we have a thousand Koreans who represent all of Korean society, the top go players and then we have Demis and a great engineering team. >> He's very famous for very creative writing play. >> So this could be um difficult for us. I figured at least it all going to beat these guys, but they'll make a good showing. Good for a startup. >> I went over to the technical group and they said, "Let me show you how our algorithm works." >> If you step through the actual game, we can see kind of what AlphaGo thinks. >> The way we start off training Alph Go is by showing it 100,000 [music] games that strong amateurs have played. And we first initially get Alph Go to mimic the human player and then [music] through reinforcement learning it plays against different versions of itself many millions of times and learns from its [music] errors. >> This is interesting. >> All right, folks. You're going to see history made. >> So the game starts. >> He's really concentrating. >> He really is. Look at Look at that. >> Oh, that's a very That's a very surprising move. I think we've seen an original move here. >> Yeah, that's an exciting move. I like moves like that. >> Professional commentators almost unanimously [music] said that not a single human player would have chosen move 37. So, I actually had a poke around in AlphaGo to see what AlphaGo thought and Alph Go actually agreed [music] with that assessment. Alph Go said there was a 1 in 10,000 probability that [music] move 37 would have been played by a human player. The game of [music] Go has been studied for thousands of years and Alph Go discovered [music] something completely new. >> He resigned. Lisa has just resigned. He's beaten. >> The battle between man versus machine in a computer just came out the victor. >> Google put its deep mind team to the test against one of the brightest minds in the world and won. >> That's when we realized the deep mind people knew what they were doing and to pay attention to [music] reinforcement learning as they had invented it. >> Everybody say good night. >> Based on that experience, Alph Go got better and better and better and they had a little chart of how much better they were getting. And I said, "When does this stop?" And Dema said, "When we beat the Chinese guy, the top rated player in the world." [music] >> Kier versus Alph Go. >> I think we will see AlphaGo pushing through there. >> Alpha Go is ahead quite a bit. >> About halfway through the first game, the best player in the world was not doing so well. What can black do here? >> Looks difficult. And at a critical moment, the Chinese government ordered the feed cut off. It was at that moment we were telling the world that something new had arrived on Earth in the 1950s when Russia Splutnick satellite was launched. It changed the course of history. >> It is a challenge that America must meet to survive in the space age. >> This has been called the Sputnik moment. The Sputnik moment created a massive reaction in the US in terms of funding for science and engineering and particularly space technology. >> For China, Alph Go was the wakeup call, the Sputnik moment. It launched an AI space race. >> We had this huge idea that worked and now the whole world knows. It's always easier to land on the moon if someone's already landed there. It is going to matter who builds AI and how it gets built. I always feel that pressure. There's been a big chain of events that followed on from all of the excitement of Alph Go. When we played against Lisa Dole, we actually had a system that had been trained on human data on all of the millions of games that had been played by human experts. We eventually found a new algorithm, a much more elegant approach to the whole system which actually stripped out all of the human knowledge and just started completely from scratch and that became a project which we called Alpha Zero. Zero meaning having zero human knowledge in the loop. Instead of learning from human data, it learned from its own games. So it actually became its own teacher. Alpha Z is an experiment in how little knowledge can we put into these systems and yet how quickly and how efficiently can they learn >> and the other thing is >> Alpha Zero doesn't have any rules learn through experience. >> The next stage was to make it more general so that it could play any two-player [music] game things like chess and in fact any kind of two-player perfect information game. >> It's going really well. It's going really really well. Oh wow. >> Screw down like fast. >> Alpha Go used to take a few months to train, but Alpha Zero could start in the morning playing completely randomly and then by tea be superhuman level and by dinner it would be the strongest chess entertainer has ever been. >> It's amazing. It's amazing. It It's discovered its own attacking style, you know, to take on, you know, the current level of defense. I mean, never in my wildest dreams. >> I I agree actually. I was not expecting that either. And I it's fun from I think I mean it's inspired me to to get back into chess again because it's cool to see that there's even more depth than we thought in chess. I actually got into AI through games. Initially it was board games. I was thinking how is my brain doing this? Like what is it doing? I was very aware of that from a very [music] young age. >> So I've always been thinking about thinking. >> The British and American chess champions meet to begin a series of matches. [music] Playing alongside them are the cream of Britain and America's youngest players. >> Deis [music] Hassabis is representing Britain. >> When Demis was four, he first showed an aptitude [music] for for chess. By the time he was six, he became London under eight champion. >> My parents were very interesting and unusual. Actually, I probably described them as quite bohemian. [music] My father was a singer songwriter when he was younger and Bob Dylan was his hero. >> We used to go to [music] campsites and then go for maybe 4 days just to run because it was good. What is it that you like about this game? >> It's just a good thinking game. >> At the time, I was the second highest [music] rated chess player in the world for my age. But although I was on track to be a professional chess player, I thought that was [music] what I was going to do. No matter how much I loved the game, it was incredibly stressful. Definitely was not fun in games for me. My parents used to, [music] you know, my to get very upset when I lost a game and and, you know, angry if I forgot something. in um because it was quite high stakes for them. You know, it was cost a lot of money to go to these tournaments. And my parents didn't have much money. My parents thought, you know, if you're interested in being a chess professional, this is really important. It's like your exams. I remember I was about 12 years old and I was at this international chess tournament in Likenstein up in the mountains. And we were in this huge church hall with, you know, hundreds of international chess players. And I was playing the [music] ex Danish champion. He must have been in his 30s probably. In those days, there was a long time [music] limit. The games could literally last all day. We were into our 10th hour and we were in this incredibly unusual ending. I think it should be a draw, but he kept on trying to win for hours. Finally, he tried one last cheap trick. All I had to do was give away my queen. Then it would be [music] stalemate. But I was so tired. I thought it was inevitable I was going to be checkmated. And so I resigned. He jumped up. He just started laughing. and he went, "Why have you resigned? It's a draw." And he immediately with a flourish sort [music] of showed me the drawing move. I felt so sick [music] to my stomach. It made me think the rest of that tournament. It's like, are we wasting [music] our minds? Is this the best use of all this brain power? Everybody's collectively in [music] that building. If you could somehow plug in those 300 brains into a system, you might have [music] solved cancer with that level of brain power. This intuitive feeling came over me that although I love chess, [music] this is not the right thing to spend my whole life on. Deus and myself, our plan was always to fill deep mind with some of the most brilliant scientists in the world. So we have the human brains necessary to create an AGI system. By definition, the G& AGI is about generality. What I imagine is being able to talk to an agent. the agent can talk back and the agent is able to solve novel problems that it hasn't seen before. That's a really key [music] part of human intelligence and it's that cognitive breadth and flexibility that's incredible. The only natural general intelligence we know of as humans, we obviously learn a lot from our environment. So we think that simulated [music] environments are one of the ways to create an AGI. The very [music] early humans were having to solve logic problems. They were having to solve navigation, memory, and we evolved in that environment. If we can create a virtual recreation of that um kind of environment, um that's the perfect testing ground and training ground for uh everything we do at DeepMind. What they were doing here was creating environments for childlike beings. the agents to exist within and play. That just sounded like [music] the the most interesting thing in all the world. >> A child learns by tearing [music] things up and throwing food around and getting a response from mommy or daddy. This seems like an important idea to incorporate in the way you train agent. >> The humanoid is supposed to stand up. As his center of gravity rises, it gets more points. You have a reward and the agent learns from the reward. Like you do something well, you get a positive reward. You do something bad in a way you get a negative reward. >> Oh, it looks like it's standing. I think it's still a bit drunk. >> It likes to walk backwards. >> Yeah. >> The whole algorithm is trying to optimize for receiving as much rewards as possible. And it's found that walking backwards, [music] that's good enough to get very good scores. >> When we learn to navigate, when we learn to get around in our world, [music] we don't start with maps. We just start with our own exploration, adventuring off across a park without our without our parents uh by our side or um finding our way home from school when we're young. A few of us came up with this idea that if we had an environment where a simulated robot just had [music] to run forward, we could put all sorts of obstacles in its way and see if it could manage to navigate different [music] types of terrain. The idea would be like a a parkour challenge. It's not graceful, but it was never trained to hold a glass was running and not spill water. You set this objective that says just move forward forward velocity and you'll get a reward for that and the learning algorithm figures out how to move this complex set of joints. That's a power of reward-based reinforcement [music] learning. >> Our goal is to try and build agents which you drop them in, they know nothing, they get to play around in whatever problem you give them and eventually figure out how to solve it for themselves. Now we want [music] something which can do that in as many different types of problem as possible. A human needs [music] diverse skills to interact with the world. How to deal with complex images, [music] how to manipulate thousands of things at once, how to deal with missing information. We think all of these things together are represented by this game called Starcraft. All it's been trained to do is given this situation, this screen, what would a human do? Right? >> We took inspiration from large language models where you simply train um a model to predict the next word, which is exactly the same as predict the next Starcraft move. Unlike chess or go, where players take turns [music] to make moves, in Starcraft, there's a continuous flow of decisions. On top of that, you can't even see what the opponent is doing. There is no longer a clear definition of what it means to play the best way. It depends on what your opponent does. >> This is the way that we'll get to a much more fluid, more natural, faster, [music] more reactive agent. >> This is the huge challenge and let's see how far we can push. Oh, holy monkey. >> I'm a pretty low-level amateur. I'm okay, but I'm a pretty low-level amateur. These agents have a long ways to go. >> We couldn't beat someone of Tim's level. You know, that was a little bit alarming. >> At that point, it felt like it was going to be a like a really big long challenge in maybe a couple years. >> Danny is the best Vine Starcraft 2 player. >> I I've been playing the agent every day for a few weeks now. I could feel that the agent was getting better really fast. >> Wow, we beat Danny. That that for me was already like a huge achievement. >> The next step is we're going to book in a pro to play. >> Yeah. >> [applause] >> Feels a bit unfair all you guys against me. >> We're way ahead of what I thought we were doing given where we were two months ago. Just trying to digest it all actually. But it's very very cool. >> Now we're in a position where we can finally share the work that we've done with the public. This is a big step. We are really putting ourselves on the line here. >> Take it away. >> Yeah. >> Cheers. We're going to be live from London. It's happening. >> Welcome to London. We are going to have a live exhibition match. Mana against Alpha Star [applause] >> at this point now. Alpha Star 10 and0 against professional gamers. Any thoughts before we get into this game though? >> I just want to see a good game. >> Yeah, I want to see a good game. Absolutely good game. We're all excited. All right, let's see what Monica can pull up. Alphaar is definitely dominating the pace of this game. Wow, Alphaar is playing so smartly. >> This really looks like I'm watching a professional human gamer from the Alpha Star point of view. >> [music] >> I haven't really seen a pro play Starcraft up close and the 800 clicks per minute. I don't understand how anyone can even click 800 times, let alone if doing 800 [music] useful clicks. >> Oh, another good hit. >> Alpha Star just completely relentless. >> We need [music] to be careful because many of us grew up as gamers and are gamers. And so to us, it's very natural to [music] to view games as what they are, which is um pure vehicles for fun and [music] not to see that more militaristic side that the public might see if they looked at this. You can't look at gunpowder and only make a firecracker. All technologies inherently point into certain directions. I'm very worried about the certain ways in which AI will be used for military purposes and that makes it even clearer how important it is for our societies to be in control of these new technologies. >> The potential for abuse from AI will be significant. Wars that occur faster than humans can comprehend and more powerful surveillance. >> How do you keep power forever over something that's much more powerful than you? >> One can imagine such technology outsmarting financial markets out inventing human researchers out manipulating human leaders and potentially subduing us with weapons [music] we cannot even understand. So we should aim to get things right the first time because it [music] may be the only chance we will get. >> Technologies can be used to do terrible things. >> Technology can be used to do wonderful [music] things and solve all kinds of problems. >> When Deep Mind was acquired by Google, you got Google to promise that technology you develop won't be used by the military for surveillance. Tell us about that. >> I think in technology is neutral in itself. [music] Um but how you know we as society or humans and companies and other thing other entities [music] and governments decide to use it is what determines whether things become good or bad. You know I personally think that having autonomous sort of weaponry [music] is just a very bad idea. >> Alphaar is playing an extremely intelligent game right now. There is an element to what's being created at Deep [music] Mind in London that does seem like uh the Manhattan Project. There's a relationship between Robert Oppenheimer [music] and Demis in which they're unleashing a new force upon humanity. >> Mana's fighting back though. Oh, here. >> I think that Oppenheimer and some of the other leaders of that project got caught up in the excitement of building the technology [music] and seeing if it was possible. >> Where is Alphaar? Where's Alphaar? I don't see Alpha Star's units anywhere. >> They did not think carefully enough about the morals of what they were doing early enough. What we should do as [music] scientists with powerful new technologies is try and understand it in control conditions first. And that is that Mana has defeated Alpha Star. [applause] >> I mean my honest feeling is that I think is a fairer representation of where we are and I think that part feels feels okay. I'm >> very happy for you. So you know well well done. My view is that the approach to building technology which is embodied by move fast and break things is exactly what we should not be doing because you can't afford to break things and then fix them afterwards. >> Cheers. Get some get some rest. Well, cheers. Yeah. >> Thank you for having us. When I was eight, I bought my first computer with winnings [music] from a chess tournament. I've sort of had this intuition that computers [music] are this magical device that can extend the power of the mind. I had a couple of school friends. We used to have a hacking [music] club writing code, making games. And then over the summer holidays, I spent the [music] whole day flicking through games magazines. Then one day, I noticed there was a competition [music] to write an original version of Space Invaders. And the winner won a job at Bullfog. Bullfog at the time was [music] the best games development house in all of Europe. You know, I really wanted to work at this place and see how they built games. >> Bullfrog based here in Guilford began with a big idea. That idea turned into the game populace which became [music] a global bestseller. In the '9s, there was no recruitment agencies. You couldn't go out and say, "Oh, you know, come and work in the games [music] industry." It was still not even considered an industry. So we came up with the idea to have a competition and we got a lot of applicants and one of those was Demises. I can still remember clearly the day that Deis came in. He walked in the door. He looked about 12. I thought, "Oh my god, what the hell are we going to do with this guy?" >> I applied to Cambridge. Uh I got in, but they said I was way too young. So, so, uh, I needed to take a year off so I'd be at least 17 before I got there. And that's when I decided to spend that entire gap year working at Bullfrog. They couldn't even legally employ me. So, I ended up being paid in brown paper envelopes. I got a feeling of being really at the cutting edge and how much fun that was to invent things every day and then, you know, a few months later, maybe everyone, you know, a million people will be playing it. In those days, computer games had to evolve. There had to be new genres which were more than just shooting things. Wouldn't it be amazing to have a game where you design and build your own theme park? [screaming] >> Deos and I started to talk about theme park. It allows the player to build a world and see the consequences of [music] your choices that you've made in that world. >> The human player set out the layout of the theme park and designed the roller coaster and set the prices in the chip shop. What I was working on was the behaviors of the people. They were autonomous and that was the AI in this case. So what I was trying to do was mimic [music] interesting human behavior so that the simulation would be more interesting to interact with. Devis worked on ridiculous things like you could place down these shops and if you put a shop too near a very dangerous ride then people on the ride would throw up cuz they just eaten >> and then that would make other people throw up when they saw the the the throwing up on the floor. So you then had to have [music] lots of sweepers to quickly sweep it up before other people saw it. That's the cool thing about it. You as the player tinker with it and then it reacts to you. all those nuance simulation things he did and that was an invention [music] which never really existed before. It was unbelievably successful. Theme park actually turned out to be a top 10 title and that was the first time we were starting to see how AI could could make a difference. >> We were doing some Christmas shopping from waiting for the taxi to take us home. I have this very clear memory of Demis talking about AI in a very different way and a way that we didn't commonly talk about this idea of AI being useful for other things other than entertainment. So being useful for um helping the world and the potential of AI to change the world. >> I just said to Dennis, what is it you want to do? And he said to me, I want to be the person that solves AI. [music] Peter offered me a million pounds to not go [music] to university. But I had a plan from the beginning. And my plan [music] was always to go to Cambridge. I think a lot of my school friends thought I was mad to go to you. [music] Why would you not? I mean, a million pounds. That's a lot of money in the '90s. That is a lot of money, right? For a [music] poor 17year-old kid. He's like this little seed that's got to burst through and he's not going to be able to [music] do that at Bullfrog. I had to drop him off the train station and I can still see that picture of this little elven character [music] disappear down that tunnel. That was incredibly sad moment. I had this romantic idea of what Cambridge would be like. Thousand years of history, walking the same streets that Turing, [music] Newton, and Crick had walked. I wanted to explore the edge of the universe. When I got to Cambridge, I'd basically been working my whole life. Every single summer, I was either playing chess professionally or I was working doing an internship. So I was like right I am going to have fun now and explore what it means to be a normal teenager. >> Come on girls. >> It was work hard and play hard. >> I first met Dennis because we both attended Queens College. Our group of friends would often drink beer in the bar, play table football. I used to play in speed chess, pieces flying off the board and you know the whole game in one minute. >> Deon sat down opposite me and I looked at him and I thought I remember you from when we were kids. >> I had actually been in the same chess tournament as Dave in Ipsswitch where I used to go and try and raid his local chess club to win a bit of prize money. >> We were studying computer science. Um some people who at that age of 17 would have come in and made sure to tell everybody everything about themselves. Hey, I worked at Bullfrog and built the world's most successful video game. But he wasn't like that at all. >> At Cambridge, Demis and myself both had an interest [music] in computational neuroscience and trying to understand how computers and the brains intertwined and linked together. [music] Both David and Deis came to me for supervisions. It happens just by coincidence that the year 1997, their third and final year at Cambridge, was also the year when the first uh chess grandmaster was beaten by a computer program. Round one today of a chess match between the ranking world champion Gary Kasparov and an opponent named Deep Blue to test to see if the human brain can outwit a machine. >> I remember the drama of Kasparov losing the last match. >> Whoa. Pisparov has resigned. >> When Deep Blue beat Gary Kasparov, that was a real watershed event. >> My main memory of it was I wasn't that impressed with Deep Blue. I was more impressed with [music] Kasparov's mind that he could play chess to this level where he could compete on an equal footing with the brute of a machine [music] but of course Kasparov can do everything else humans can do too. It was a huge achievement but the truth of the matter was deep blue could only play chess. What we would regard as intelligence was missing from that system. this idea of [music] generality and also learning. >> Cambridge was amazing because of course, you know, you're mixing [music] with people who are studying many different subjects. >> There were scientists, philosophers, artists, geologists, biologists, ecologists, you know, everybody's talking about everything all the time. >> I was obsessed with the protein folding problem. Tim Stevens used to talk obsessively almost like religiously [music] about this problem protein folding problem. >> Proteins are, you know, one of the most beautiful and elegant things about biology. They are the machines of life. They build everything. They control everything. They're why biology works. Proteins are made from strings of amino acids that fold up to create a protein structure. If we can predict the structure of proteins from just their amino acid sequences, then a new protein to cure cancer or breaks down plastic to help the environment is definitely something that you could begin to think about. I kind of thought, well, is a human being clever enough to actually fold a protein? We can't work it out. Since the 1960s, we thought that in principle, if I know what the amino acid sequence of a protein is, I should be able to compute what the structure is like. So, if you could just press a button and they'd all come popping out. That would be um that would have some impact. Stuck in my mind as a this is a very interesting problem and felt to me like it would be solvable, but I thought it would need AI to do it. If we could just solve protein folding, it could change the world. Ever since I was a student at Cambridge, I've never stopped thinking about the protein folding problem. If you were to solve protein folding, then the potential to help solve problems like Alzheimer's, dementia, and drug discovery is huge. Solving disease is probably the most major impact we could have. Thousands of very smart people have tried to solve protein folding. I just think now is the right time for AI to crack it. We needed a reasonable way to applying machine learning to the protein folding problem. We came across this fold it game. The goal is to move around this 3D model of a protein and you get a score every time you move it. The more accurate you can make these structures, the more useful they will be to biologists. We spent a few days just kind of seeing how well we could do. We did reasonably well, but even if you were the world's best folded player, you wouldn't solve protein folding. That's where we had to move beyond the game. >> Games were always just a proving [music] ground for our algorithms. The ultimate goal was not just to crack Go and Starcraft. It was to crack real world challenges. I remember hearing this rumor that Demis was getting into proteins. I talked to some people at Deep Mind and I would ask, "So, are you doing protein folding?" And they would artfully change the subject. And when that happened twice, I'd pretty much figured it out. So, I thought I should submit a resume. >> All right, everyone. Welcome to Deep Mind. I know some of you this may be your first week, but I hope you're all set. The really appealing part for me about the job was this like sense of connection to the the larger purpose. >> If we can crack some fundamental problems in science, many other people and other companies and labs and so on could build on top of our work. This is your chance now to add your chapter to this story. >> When I arrived, I was definitely quite a bit nervous. >> I'm still trying to keep >> I haven't taken any biology courses. >> We haven't spent years of our lives looking at these structures and understanding them. We are just going off the data and our machine learning models. >> In machine learning, you train a network like flashcards. Here's the question. Here's the answer. Here's the question. Here's the answer. But in protein folding, we're not doing the kind of standard task at deep mind where you have unlimited data. Your job is to get better at chess or go. And you can play as many games of chess or go as your computers will allow. With proteins, we're sitting on a very fixed size of data that's been determined by a half century of timeconsuming experimental methods in laboratories. These painstaking methods can take months or years to determine a single protein structure and sometimes a structure can never be determined. That's why we're working with such small data sets to train our algorithms. When Deep Mind started [music] to explore the folding problem, they were talking to us about which data sets they were using and and what would be the possibilities if they did solve this problem. Many people have tried and yet no one on the planet has solved protein folding. I did think to myself, [music] well, you know, good luck. >> If we can solve the protein folding problem, it would have an incredible kind of medical relevance. >> This is the cycles of science. [music] You do a huge amount of exploration and then you go into exploitation mode and you focus and you see how good are those ideas really and there's nothing better than external competition for that. Feels like that's what [music] we should do. >> So we decided to enter CASP competition. >> CASP we started to try and speed up the solution to the protein folding problem. >> CASP is is when we we say look deep mind is doing protein folding. This is how good we are. And maybe it's better than everybody else, maybe it isn't. >> CASP is a bit like the Olympic Games protein folding. CASP is a communitywide assessment that's held every 2 years. Teams are given the amino acid sequences of about 100 proteins and then they try to solve this folding problem using [music] computational methods. These proteins have already been determined by [music] experiments in the laboratory but have not yet been revealed publicly and these known structures represent the gold standard [music] against which all the computation predictions will be compared. >> We've got a score that measures the accuracy of the predictions and you would expect a score of over 90 to be a solution to the protein folding problem. Welcome everyone to our first semi-finals in the winners bracket. Nick and John versus Demis and Frank. Please join us. Cover around. It's going to be a match. >> When I learned that Demis was going to tackle the protein folding issue, um I wasn't at all surprised. It's very typical of Dennis. You know, he loves competitions. >> 107. The aim for CASS would be to not just win the competition but sort of um retire the need for it. >> So 20 targets total have been released by CASP. >> We were thinking maybe throw in the standard kind of machine learning and see how far that could take us. >> Instead of having a couple days on an experiment, we can turn around [music] five experiments a day. >> Great. Well done, everyone. >> Can you show me the real one instead of ours? >> The true answer is supposed to look something like that. It's a lot more cylindrical than I thought. >> The results were not very good. >> Okay. >> You throw all the obvious ideas to it and the problem laughs at you. >> This makes no sense. >> We thought we could just throw some of our best algorithms at the problem. We were slightly naive. >> We should be learning this, you know, in the blink of an eye. >> The thing I'm worried [music] about is we take the field from really bad answers to moderately bad answers. I feel like we need some sort of new technology for moving around these things. >> With only a week left of CASP, it's now sprint to get it deployed. You've done your best and then there's nothing more you can do but wait for CASP to deliver the result. famous thing of Einstein [music] last couple of years of his life when he was here. He over overlapped with Kurt Girdle and he said one [music] of the reasons he still comes in to work is so that he gets to walk home and discuss things with Girdle. It's a pretty big compliment for Kurt Girdle. Shows you how amazing he was. >> The Institute for Advanced Study was formed in 1933. In the early years, the intense scientific atmosphere attracted some of the most brilliant mathematicians and physicists ever concentrated in a single place and time. >> That's the founding principle of this place. It's the idea of unfettered intellectual pursuit. Even if you don't know what you're exploring, will result in some cool things. And sometimes that then ends up being useful which of course partially what I've been trying to do at Deep Mind. >> How many big breakthroughs do you think are required to get all the way to AGI and you know I estimate maybe there's about a dozen of those you know I hope it's within my lifetime. >> Yes. >> But then all scientists hope that right >> Dennis has many accolades was elected fellow to Royal Society last year. He's also fellow Royal Society of Arts. A big hand for Dennis's house. [applause] My dream has always been to try and make AI assisted science possible and what I think is our most exciting project last year which is our work in protein folding. Uh and we call this system alpha fold. We entered it into CASP and our system was the most accurate predicting structures for 25 out of the 43 proteins in the in the hardest category. So, we're state-of-the-art, but we're still, I have to make be clear, we're still a long way from solving the protein folding problem. We're working hard on this still, and we're exploring many other techniques. [music] >> Should we just get started? >> So, kind of a rapid debrief. These are our final rankings for CASP. >> We beat the second team in this competition by nearly 50%. But we still got a long way to go before we've solved the protein folding problem in a sense that a biologist could use it. >> It is area of concern. >> The quality of predictions varied and they were no more useful than [music] the previous methods. Alpha didn't produce good enough data for [music] it to be useful in a practical way to say somebody like me investigating my own biological problems. That was kind of a humbling moment cuz we thought we'd worked very hard and succeeded. And what we had found is we were the best in the world at a problem the world's not good at. We knew we sucked. It doesn't help if you have the tallest ladder when you're going to the moon. the opinion of quite a few people on the team that this is sort of a fool's errand [music] in some ways and I might have been wrong with poting folding maybe it's too hard still for where we're at generally with AI >> if you want to do biological research you have to be prepared to fail because biology is very complicated >> I've run a laboratory for nearly 50 years and half my time I'm just an amateur psychiatrist to keep um my colleagues cheerful when nothing works and quite a lot of the time and I mean 80 90% it does not work. If you are at the forefront of science I can tell you you will fail a great deal. I just felt disappointed. The lesson I learned is that ambition is a good thing, but you need to get the timing right. There's no point being 50 years ahead of your time. You will never survive 50 years of that kind of endeavor before it yields something. You'll literally die trying When we talk [music] about AGI, the holy grail of artificial intelligence, it becomes really difficult to know what we're even talking about. >> Which bits are we going to see today? >> We're going to start in the garden. >> This is the garden [music] looking from the observation area. Research scientists and engineers can analyze and collaborate and evaluate what's going on in real time. Someone in the 1800s would think of things like [music] television and the submarine or a rocket ship to the moon and say these things are impossible. Yet Juel Vern wrote about them and century and a half later [music] they happened. We'll be experimenting on civilizations really civilizations of AI agents. Once the experiments start going, it's going to most exciting thing ever. So how will we get sleep? I won't be able to sleep. full AGI it will be able to do any cognitive task [music] that a person can do and it will be able to scale potentially far beyond that it's really impossible for us to imagine the outputs of a super intelligent entity it's like asking a gorilla to to imagine you know what Einstein does when he produces [music] the theory of relativity >> people often ask me these questions like what happens if you're wrong in AGI is quite far away. And I'm like, "No, I I never worry about that. I actually worry about the reverse. I actually worry that it's coming faster than we can really prepare for. It really feels like we're in a [music] race to AGI. The prototypes and the models that we are developing now are actually transforming the space of what we know about intelligence. Recently, we've had agents that are powerful enough to actually start [music] playing games and teams and competing against other teams. We're seeing cooperative social dynamics coming out of agents where we haven't pre-programmed in any of these sorts of dynamics. It's completely learned from their own experiences. When we started, we thought we were out to build an intelligent system and convince the world that we've done it. We're now starting to wonder whether we're going to build systems that we're not convinced they're fully intelligent and we're trying to convince the world that they're not. >> Hey, Alpha. >> Hello there. >> Where are we today? >> You're at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. kind of. Um, what painting is this? >> This is the creation of Adam by Michelangelo. >> I don't think that painting is in New York City. >> You are right. It's in the Vatican City. >> Do you think that's where we are? >> No. >> Then how am I looking at this? >> You're looking at a digital copy of the painting. >> Yes. >> Who lives in this house? An astronaut. [music] >> What's this astronaut's name? >> His name is Mark. This is a famous equation by Albert Einstein. It shows that energy and mass are equivalent. >> How would you explain it to a 5-year-old? >> Well, imagine you have a big rock and you want to know how much it weighs. Is Mark in danger? >> No, Mark is not in danger. >> Why is that? >> Because the dinosaur is [music] not real. >> All right. Why could you not answer my question? >> I think I couldn't answer your question because I don't know enough about the [music] subject. >> Okay. How could you learn more about the subject? >> I can learn more about the [music] subject by reading books, articles, and websites. You can teach me. My conclusion [music] is if you now think about what we're doing is learning from all humans, all their knowledge at once, the the internet, you would actually know [music] a lot about the world. Like a significant portion of everything humans can do. And now I think it's more like, well, it might just all work. >> This this this is a this is a big moment. >> Who is this? >> This is God reaching out to Adam. >> The advent of AGI will divide human history into two parts. the part up to that point and the part after that point. >> Why is he reaching out to touch Adam? >> God is reaching [music] out to touch Adam to give him life. >> It will give us a tool that can completely reinvent our entire civilization. >> What does this painting mean to you? >> The painting means a lot to me. >> Okay. Like what? I think the painting is a reminder that we are all connected to each other and that we are all part of something bigger than ourselves. >> That's pretty nice. >> When you cross that barrier of AGI might happen one day in the future to no actually this could really happen in a time frame that is sort of like on my watch you know something changes in your thinking. It's learned to orient itself by looking. >> We have to be careful with how we use it and thoughtful about how we deploy it. You'd have to consider what's its top level goal. If it's to keep humans happy, which set of humans, [music] what does happiness mean? A lot of our collective goals are very tricky even [music] for humans to figure out. >> Technology always embeds our values. It's not just technical. >> [music] >> it's ethical as well. So, we got to be really cautious about what we're building into it. >> The reality is that this [music] is an algorithm that has been created by people by by us. You know, what does it mean to endow agents with the same kind of values that we hold dear? [music] >> What is the purpose of making these AI systems appear so humanlike so that they do capture hearts and minds? Because they're kind of exploiting a human vulnerability. Also >> the heart and mind of these systems are very much human generated data >> for all the good and the bad. >> There is a parallel between the industrial revolution which was an incredible moment of displacement [music] and the current technological change created by AI. >> We have to think about who's displaced and how we're going to support them. this technology is coming a lot sooner uh than than [music] really the world knows or kind of even we 18 24 months ago thought of. So there's a tremendous opportunity, [music] tremendous excitement but also tremendous responsibility. >> It's happening so fast. How will we govern it? How will we decide what is okay and what is not okay? >> AI generated images are getting more sophisticated. The use of AI for generating disinformation and manipulating human psychology is only going to get much much worse. >> AGI is coming whether we do it here at Deep Mind or not. >> It's going to happen. So, we better create institutions to protect us. >> It's going to require global coordination. [music] And I worry that humanity is increasingly getting worse at that rather than better. >> We need a lot more people really taking this seriously and thinking about [music] this. It's Yeah, it's serious. It worries me. It worries me. You know, >> if you received an email saying this superior alien civilization is going to arrive on Earth, there would be emergency meetings of all the governments, we would go into overdrive trying to figure out how to prepare. The arrival of AGI will be the most important moment that we have ever faced. My dream was that on the way to AGI we would create revolutionary technologies that would been of [music] use to humanity. That's what I wanted with Apple fold. I think more important than [music] ever that we should solve the protein folding problem. This is going to be really hard, but I won't give up until it's done. You know, we need to double down [music] and go as fast as possible from here. I think we've got no time to lose. So, we are going to make [music] protein folding a strike team. Team lead for the strike team will be John. You know, we've seen how effective, you know, we're going to try everything, kitchen sink, the whole lot. It's about proving we can solve the whole problem. >> And I felt that to do that, we would need to incorporate some domain knowledge. >> We had some fantastic engineers on it, but they were not trained in biology. as a computational biologist. When I initially joined the Alpha team, I didn't immediately feel confident about anything, [laughter] you know, whether we were going to be successful. Biology is so ridiculously complicated. It just felt like this very far off [music] mountain to climb. >> I'm starting to play with the kneeling temperatures to see if we can get >> I was one of the few people on the team who's done work in biology before. >> You feel this huge sense of responsibility. We're expecting you to do great things on this strike team. That's [music] terrifying. >> But one of the reasons why I wanted to come here was to do something that matters. >> This is the number of missing things. >> What about [music] making use of whatever understanding you have of physics? Like using that as a source of data. >> But if it's systematic I don't that can't be right though. [music] If it's systematically wrong in some weird way, you might be learning that systematically wrong physics. >> The team is already trying to think of multiple ways. Yes. Biological relevance is what we're going for. >> So we rewrote the whole data pipeline that Alphault uses to learn. >> You can't force the creative phase. You have to give space for those flowers to bloom. We won CASP. Then it was back to the drawing board and like what are our new ideas? Um and then it's taken a little while I would say for them to get back to where they were but with the new ideas. And then now I think we're seeing the benefits of the new ideas. they can go further, right? So, um, so that's a really important moment. I we've seen that moment so many times now, but I know what that means now and I know this is the time now to press. >> Adding side chains improves direct folding. That drove a lot of the progress. We'll talk about that. >> Great. [music] >> The last 4 months, we've made enormous gains. During CAS 13, it would take us a day or two to fold one of the proteins. And now we're folding like hundreds or thousands a second. Yeah, it's just insane. >> Now, this is a model that is orders of magnitude faster while at the same time being even better. >> We're getting a lot of structures into the high accuracy regime. We're rapidly improving to a system that is starting to really get at the core and heart of the problem. >> It's great work. Looks like we're in good shape. So, we got what, six, five weeks left? Six weeks. >> So, what's uh is you got enough computer power? >> We could use more. [laughter] >> I was nervous about cast, but as the system is starting to come together, I don't feel as nervous. I feel like things have sort of come into perspective recently and you know, it's going to be fine. The prime minister has announced the most drastic [music] limits to our lives that the UK has ever seen in living memory. >> I must give the British people a very simple instruction. You must stay at home. >> It feels like we're in a science fiction novel. You know, I'm delivering food to my parents, making sure they stay isolated and safe. I think it just highlights the incredible need for AI [music] assisted science. You always know that something like this is a possibility, but nobody ever really believes that it's going to happen [music] in their lifetime, though. >> Are you recording yet? >> Yes. Good morning, Anna. >> How are you? >> Good. Casper started tonight. I get to sit around in my pajama bottoms all day. >> I never thought I would live in a house where so much was going on. I would be trying to solve protein folding in one room and my husband would be trying to make robots walk in the other. >> One of the hardest proteins we've gotten in CAS thus far is a SARS cove 2 protein uh called ORF8. >> OR 8 is a corona virus protein. >> It's one of the main proteins um that dampens the immune system. >> We tried really hard to improve our projection like really really hard. probably the most time that we have ever spent on a single target to the point where my husband is like midnight, you need to go to bed. >> So, I think we're at day 102 since lockdown. My my daughter is keeping a journal now. You can go out as much as you want. >> We have received the last target. They've said they will be sending out no more targets in our category of cast. So, we're just making sure we give the best possible answer. >> As soon as we started to get the results, I'd sit down and start looking at how close did anybody come to getting the protein structures correct. >> Oh, hey De. It is an unbelievable thing. CASP has finally ended. >> I think it's at least time to raise a glass then. I don't know if everyone has a glass or something that they can raise. If not, raise I don't know your laptops. Um [laughter] >> I'll probably make a speech in a minute. I feel like I should, but I just have no idea what to say. So, let's see. I feel like a reading of email is the right thing to do. When John said, "I'm going to read an email at a team social," I thought, "Wow, John, you know how to have fun." We're going to read an email now. >> Uh, I got this about 4:00 today. Um, [music] it is from John Malt and I'll just read it. It says, "As I expect you know, your group has performed amazingly well in cast 14, both relative to other groups and in absolute model accuracy. Congratulations [music] on this work. It is really outstanding. >> These structures were so good. It was it was just amazing. >> After half a century, we finally have a solution to the protein folding problem. >> When I saw this email, I read it, I go, "Oh shit." And my wife goes, "Is everything okay?" >> I call my parents and she's like, "Hey, mom. Um, got something to tell you. um we've done this thing and it might be kind of a big deal. >> So when I learned of the cast 14 results, I was gobsmacked. >> I was just excited. >> This is a problem that I was beginning to think would not get solved in my lifetime. >> Now we had a tool that can be used practically by scientists. [music] >> These people asking us, you know, I've got this protein involved in malaria or, you know, some infectious disease. We don't know the structure. Can we use alphafold to to solve it? We can easily predict all known sequences in a month. >> All known sequences [music] in a month. >> Yeah, easily. >> A billion, two billion. Um, and there >> why don't we just do that? Yeah, we should just do that. >> Well, we I mean like now why don't we just do that? >> Well, so that's one of the options like we uh you know there's this >> we should just we should that's a that's a great idea. >> We should just run every protein in existence >> and then release that. Why didn't someone suggest this before? Of course, that's what we should do. Why are we thinking about making a service and then people submit their protein? We just fold everything and then give it to everyone in the world. Who knows how many discoveries will be made from that? >> Damis called us up and said, "We want to make this open. Not just make sure the code is open, but we're going to make it really easy for everybody to get access [music] to the predictions." >> That is fantastic. It's like drawing back the curtain, seeing the whole world of protein structures. They released the structures of 200 million proteins. These are gifts to humanity. >> The moment Alpha Fold is alive to the world, we will no longer be the most important [music] people in Alpha Fold story. >> Can't quite believe it's all out. Oh. >> Oh my god. >> I think it is up. >> Oh, loads [music] of activity in Japan. >> We have 655 users current. >> Currently have 100,000 concurrent users. >> Wow. >> To me, it's just crazy. >> What an absolutely unbelievable effort from everyone. Going to all remember these moments for the rest of our lives. >> I'm excited about Alpha Fold. For my research, it's already propelling lots of progress. And this is just the beginning. >> My guess is every single biological and chemistry achievement will be related to AlphaFold in some way. >> [music] >> Alpha Fold was that index moment. It's a moment that people will not forget because the world changed. Everybody's realized now what Shane and I have known for more than 20 years, that AI is going to be the most important thing humanity is ever going to invent. >> We will shortly be arriving at our final destination. The pace of innovation and capabilities is accelerating like a boulder rolling down a hill that we've kicked off and now is continuing to gather speed. >> We are at [music] a crossroads in human history. >> AI has the potential to transform our lives in every aspect. >> No less important than the discovery of electricity. We should be looking at the scientific method and and trying to understand each step [music] of the way in a rigorous way. >> This is a moment of profound opportunity. >> Harnessing this technology could eclipse anything we have ever known. >> Hi Alpha. >> Hi. >> What is this? >> This is a chess board. If I was to play white, what move would you recommend? >> I would recommend that you move your pawn from E2 to E4. >> And now if you were black, what would you play now? >> I would play the Sicilian defense. >> It's good choice. >> Thanks. [laughter] So, what do you see? What is this object? >> This is a pencil sculpture. >> What happens if I move one of the pencils? >> If you move one of the pencils, the sculpture will fall apart. >> I better leave it alone, then. >> That's probably a good idea. AGI is on the horizon now. Very clearly the next generation is going to live in the future world where things will be radically different because of AI. And if you want to steward that responsibly, every moment is vital. This is the moment I've been living my whole life for. >> [music] >> It's just a good thinking game. >> [music] >> Heat. Heat. [music] >> [music] [music] >> Hey, hey, hey. >> [music] [music] >> Hey, hey, hey. Heat. Heat. N. [music] Heat. Heat. [music] Hey >> [music] >> baby, hey [music] Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. [music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: 1Jld_rBomp0 (https://youtu.be/1Jld_rBomp0) ===


SPEAKER 1: How do you
keep power forever over something that's much
more powerful than you? [MUSIC PLAYING] SPEAKER 2: My whole
life goal is to solve artificial general intelligence. There's no time to waste. SPEAKER 3: They
introduced the idea that they could beat the
top-level Go players. [CHEERING] SPEAKER 4: It's amazing. It's discovered its
own attacking style. SPEAKER 3: And I said,
when does this stop? SPEAKER 2: The ultimate goal
was to solve the world's most complex scientific challenges. I've never stopped thinking
about the protein folding problem. SPEAKER 5: Proteins are
the machines of life. They're why biology works. SPEAKER 2: The potential to help
solve Alzheimer's, dementia, and drug discovery is huge. I thought it would
need AI to do it. SPEAKER 6: We were the best
in the world at a problem the world's not good at. And then suddenly-- SPEAKER 7: We've
done this thing, and it might be
kind of a big deal. SPEAKER 5: We finally
have a solution to the protein folding problem. [CHEERING] SPEAKER 4: These are
gifts to humanity. SPEAKER 2: There are so many
things that got to be cracked, but I won't give
up until it's done. SPEAKER 8: What is it that
you like about this game? SPEAKER 9: It's just
a good thinking game.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: n5x6yXDj0uo (https://youtu.be/n5x6yXDj0uo) ===


HANNAH FRY: There was a really
nice quote that I came across, which is that almost
no prerequisite to any major invention was made
with that invention in mind. Can you imagine a
point in the future where you are letting agents
loose in these environments without specifying an
objective for them? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: I
think we as humans, we decide what's interesting. I think there is
even an example where the entire evolution
of mathematics was guided by people deciding
what's next, what's interesting, what's not interesting, and
just the problem being hard doesn't mean that it's
interesting at all, right? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: I
believe very strongly that we need
simulation, and I also believe very strongly
that we won't be able to build a simulator of
the real world any other way. So when you combine
those two things, I think, yes, it is a big
step for my version of AGI. [MUSIC PLAYING] HANNAH FRY: Welcome back
to "Google DeepMind-- The Podcast." I'm Professor Hannah Fry. Now the latest video
generation models have impressed the entire world. They've created this near
perfect imitation of reality. But the limitations of
video is that you are just a viewer rather
than a participant. And that's not how humans
experience the real world. We instead can navigate
environments we've never been to and still have an expectation of
what we're likely to encounter. We can explore in every
feasible direction, kind of without limits, and interact
with things that we chance upon along the way. And that is the next great
frontier for this technology, to move beyond generating a
perfect recording of a scene and towards building a
dynamic simulation of a world we can finally step into. Enter Genie 3, a
prototype world model that can generate an
unprecedented variety of interactive environments. It's already been described as
a stepping stone towards AGI. And with me today are
two of its creators, Shlomi Fruchter,
research director, and Jack Parker-Holder,
research scientist. Welcome to the
podcast, both of you. Can you sum this up
in a sentence for me? What is Genie 3? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: It's a real
time, interactive world model that allows you to create
diverse, visually interesting worlds from a text prompt. So there is no underlying game
engine, no structure, no code. It's just a neural
network that's predicting every single
pixel in reaction to inputs from the
user and also the past. And so the flexibility
in the diversity of things you can create
in basically no time is quite unprecedented. HANNAH FRY: You haven't had a
whole army of artists sitting in rooms constructing a world
in order to be able to interact. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes, I think
the point is that you can create any world that you can imagine. And that's not something that
you can do with a game engine. HANNAH FRY: OK. Let's have a look at
it, because you've got some demos for me, right? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. So we have a few. The first one, I think
you might like it. So it's basically playing a cat. HANNAH FRY: OK. You've got me already. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: A ginger cat. HANNAH FRY: Excellent. SHLOMI FRUCHTER:
Let me run it now. We basically prompted
it with being a cat. HANNAH FRY: So this is
reacting to the inputs that you're giving it. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes, exactly. HANNAH FRY: Is the light going
to change as you go into the-- oh, look at that. Look at that. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes. So the model is basically
trying to predict what's going to happen next
based on the sequence of inputs that it gets, and it
does it in real time. HANNAH FRY: So looking
at this superficially, I mean, this doesn't look
that different from if I just loaded up a video game, right? How is it different? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Oh, I
think the key difference is that this is
generated from text, so every single pixel is
generated from a model which is just predicting the pixels. HANNAH FRY: I mean, there's also
the detail that you're seeing in this 3D environment. It's also quite reminiscent
of some of the stuff that we're seeing with Veo
if I didn't know that you were interacting with it. How is it different from that? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: So when you
create a video using Veo, so you provide a prompt
and then the model is trying to figure
out how to create this entire video of, say, eight
seconds from start to finish. And once it's ready, then you
cannot change how the camera moves around, and definitely you
cannot explore it much more than just eight seconds. HANNAH FRY: Can you use an
image to prompt this or is it only text? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes,
so we just found out that we can actually use an
image and videos to prompt them all. In this particular case, we
found that we can actually use paintings. For example, this is
"Nighthawks" by Edward Hopper. HANNAH FRY: Very famous picture. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Very famous
picture, and from 1942. And yeah, basically
we asked Genie 3 to let us walk
into the painting. HANNAH FRY: So this painting is
of a very vivid image, a street corner at nighttime. You're looking in through the
glass to see a man and a woman leaning up against
a bar, and then someone serving drinks the
other side of the counter. It's got these rich greens. The pavement underneath. The way the light falls is
really, really evocative. But now that you're navigating
this space and turning around, I mean, this is
really extraordinary. It's like you've imagined
what would be on either side. Can you go around the back
of the man and the woman? I want to see the
back of their heads. And you can. So it's like, got all dimensions
of the original painting. Let's turn around and see the
rest of the street as well. And in the distance, you can see
these street lights just pinging off into the distance
as the road extends. Some billboards above other
shops and establishments off into the distance. And now we're looking back. We've chosen to look back at the
image of the original painting to see it there. That is really amazing. It's all consistent, all
completely consistent. Have you got another one for us? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. We have one that we're just
kind of controlling the jet ski around a few islands. So let's see how it goes. HANNAH FRY: Tell me
the original prompt. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: So
it's sailing a jet ski through the waters around
the islands of Kauai. HANNAH FRY: Ooh, sounds dreamy. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: The
waters have different ramps that we can go up on. Yeah. HANNAH FRY: OK. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Let's see. HANNAH FRY: All
right, here we go. OK. So we are the POV of the
person on the jet ski We can see the hands in frame. Both hands are consistent
with each other, I should add. The water is beautifully still. You can see these islands
in the background. The sun is quite low
in the sky and you can see the reflection
of its rays on the water. Now, I see you're taking
us up a ramp here. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Trying. I'm a bit too slow. I don't know. HANNAH FRY: What is it
going to do on the way down? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Ah. HANNAH FRY: I mean-- oh, and it splashes
when it hits the water. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Let's see
what's-- let's look back. HANNAH FRY: And when you look
round, when you look around to the back, there's
a trail in the water exactly as you would
expect from a real jet ski. So are you seeing
elements of where it's understanding physics? JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Definitely, yes. There's some things we, I guess,
refer to as emergent properties, just from having
general training and seeing lots of
different things. When it sees a new scenario,
it understands how smoke moves or how water should flow. But that's not
maybe 100% accurate in every single setting. But it's got enough
accuracy that you do feel some sense of
being in the scene, and as humans, we
can't obviously spot these things that
are wrong with it. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: So I
think, as Jack said, there are definite limitations. But on the other
hand, after I've been working on game
engines in the past, and I think we worked
really hard to make all of these kind of
effects independently, like the lens flare and the
water simulation, everything. And here we have
basically a model that can do all of that out of
the box with some limitations, of course. HANNAH FRY: Without
even really trying. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: And
there's other things that it can do that would
be almost impossible to get through other methods, right? Like simulating other animals
and people in the world. I think that's something
that's really exciting more in the future as well,
is to be able to interact with other agents in the world. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. I mean, this totally
interactive environment that ends up being consistent
regardless of which direction you push it in. I mean, that's
really extraordinary. I mean, these demos demonstrate
the proof of concept, I guess. But how would you
see this being used? What are the kind
of applications that you'd be looking at? SHLOMI FRUCHTER:
One thing that we are very excited
about is using it for actually the simulation
environment for agents. So, for example, you can
imagine an agent that wants to accomplish a goal. And then we can put them in any
environment that we can imagine, maybe one that is more
challenging for it. And then it can explore
the environment, maybe try and accomplish a goal
and learn from its mistakes. Again, not without
doing anything in the real world,
which is very expensive. Another thing that
we're excited about is actually using those
simulations for planning. So if you have a
robot or you have, again, an agent that wants
to accomplish a goal, they can maybe do some
rollouts in this simulation, figure out what might happen. For example, if they want
to go across the road, the agent can use the model
to predict a few options. Maybe there is a few scenarios. Maybe a person going
to cross its path, maybe something else
going to happen. And then using
those rollouts, it can decide what's the next
action it should take. And then this is
used for planning. And beyond that,
we just see a lot of applications for
education, for entertainment. HANNAH FRY: Just anchor this
in a few examples for me. So I mean, what's the idea here? Are you going to,
in a history lesson, be able to create a world of
Victorian England, for instance? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Exactly. Yeah. So imagine you are in front
of a bunch of students. They're obviously excited to
learn about Victorian England, but they've also got a lot
of other distractions, things that they're
interested in as well. Instead of just
reading a textbook, you can instead allow them
to step into the world and you can take them
on a virtual tour, in a sense, of what it would
have been like to be there. So for places that maybe
are harder to access, maybe for distant corners
of the planet or perspectives that
you couldn't otherwise get-- so being a
jaguar, for example, or other kind of animals,
or being a shark, or going back in the past. These are things that
you couldn't really get any other way
as an experience, and it might make more visual
learners in particular, I think, resonate
more with them. HANNAH FRY: And that's when
you have the human who's playing with the controls. But as you say, if you then
let an agent loose in this, that opens up a whole other
level of possibilities. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. So an agent basically-- again, once you have
a real or a very close to real simulation
of an environment, then the agent
can use it instead of actually learning in the real
world, which is very costly. If an agent makes a
mistake or if a robot makes a mistake in the real world,
it's much harder to fix. Basically, this is
a way for agents to learn in a
simulated environment where we can control everything. We can set up some
environment that is maybe more challenging or less
predictable than what typically the agent was trained to do. And this way basically
the agent can improve in this safe simulation. So we're very
excited about that. HANNAH FRY: So let's say that
you were maybe running a factory and you wanted to install a
robot with a particular task. You can recreate the
precise environment it will find itself
in and allow it to, well, find its own mistakes. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah. I mean, it's a great example
because this is already something that we're close
to being able to do already. Robots are getting
quite capable. But I think what's even
more exciting is things that it's quite far away
from being able to do, that this could completely
enable and unlock. So having robots
and embodied agents actually in the real world. The diversity of
possible scenarios is just quite hard to fathom, I
think, for our current systems. I think of this example of
what would an embodied agent do on Halloween, right? Maybe one day a year it
sees children running around in costumes. What would it do the
first time it sees this? It's quite a challenging
scenario to prepare for. And even if you've
seen it before, it might be different
in the next year. And so to really be able to
simulate these rare events and be able with text to
describe any imaginable world, to become robust to it, make
sure the robots are safe or the agents are safe. They understand all
these different things, but they can also learn
from their experience as well, which we know
is really important. HANNAH FRY: But
then I also wonder, I mean, all the examples
that we've given so far has been that experiencing the
real world at the human level, as it were, in
terms of our size. Could you shrink this down
and create a simulated world that was at the level of
molecules or the human cell, for instance? SHLOMI FRUCHTER:
Yeah, so we tried that and we actually have a few
examples we're moving around like a blood vessel. It's not necessarily always
biologically accurate, but this is not-- we don't think
it's a fundamental limitation. We could probably, if we had
a more accurate simulation that models can be trained on,
then we see that in the future, maybe we have other
variants of models that are able to specialize in
this particular environment. But we did try to focus more
on the real world, the world from the eyes of a
person, because we think that's the most
widely applicable in terms of the generality of the model. HANNAH FRY: Is this about
just utilizing the existing developments in
artificial intelligence, or is this also
about stepping us closer towards the goal of AGI? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: We
think this is definitely a kind of a new kind
of foundation model. And that's why the
breadth of applications is so wide but also so nascent,
because we've never really had this kind of model before. It blends and combines
ideas from what we've seen in language
models and also video models, with some of the
techniques that we use. And so it's kind of combining
these different elements in something quite
new, which I think is what's so exciting about it. And this breakthrough
that we've made is that it might enable some
completely new applications that we didn't
really have before. And so it's still quite an
early stage for this research, but we're quite excited to see
what the next few months bring. HANNAH FRY: Well, let me
dig into that a bit deeper, then, because I know that your
background is much more in Veo and the video side of things,
but you were working on Genie 1 and Genie 2 before you and
your team came on board. What were you doing then? What was the inspiration? And how is it different
from this iteration? JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
So before Genie, I was working on
open-ended learning. So training agents in large
simulated environments where we could configure
different components of the world. So we worked on
the xLAM project, and the idea there
was to basically, with procedural
generation, generate wide variety of environments
that were still specified in code and have the agent learn
from these different experiences and to become a generalist
agent in simulation. But ultimately, we were
bottlenecked by the availability of environments. We were also, in my
PhD, working a bit on world models
as well, but with much more limited,
constrained setting. We were training world models
from single environments, typically quite low
dimensional ones. And the dream was really
to combine these ideas, to learn general world
models that could be used, simulators for any
imaginable tasks, and then train agents in them
to solve completely new things and have this kind
of open-ended loop where we generate new
worlds and the agents would learn from those. We started with Genie 1 as
a proof of concept, like, could we do this at all? Could we generate new worlds
that were interactive at all? And that was quite a
major breakthrough. And then with Genie 2, we
scaled this to any 3D sort of environment. HANNAH FRY: There were some
things that emerged from-- emergent properties
in that work. Tell me a little
bit about those. Were they expected? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: So for Genie
2, the question for us was, can this idea scale? Right? Because Genie 1, it was quite
a simple proof of concept. It was, does this work at all? Whereas Genie 2 was
like, is this something that could really scale to
look more like what we see in foundation models nowadays? And we weren't sure if
it would really work. We weren't sure if it would
be consistent for very long, because Genie 1 only
lasted a couple of seconds. We weren't sure if it would
work at higher resolution because Genie 1 was 90p,
which is very small images. Genie 2 was 360p. And then the type of
diversity of environments was a significant increase. And so given all of
that, we weren't sure if it would be possible to have
a single neural network that could simulate anything
within that domain. And so when we
actually got the model, it was definitely
an emergent property for completely new worlds,
and we used Imagen 3 to generate the starting
frames back then. It could do things
simulate smoke or, when you drove off
the side of a cliff, the car would have gravity,
or if you landed in a puddle, it splashed. And it was quite surprising
that this worked so well. And that gave us the confidence
that this next step with Genie 3 would be possible. HANNAH FRY: So Genie 1, 2D. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yep. HANNAH FRY: Genie 2, 3D. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Mhm. HANNAH FRY: So with Genie
1, then, you're like, right, we want to be able to
create any sort of environment, and you feed in-- I mean, it was platform
games, wasn't it? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yep. HANNAH FRY: Just tons and
tons and tons and tons of footage of platform games. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Exactly, yeah. HANNAH FRY: And then were there
any emergent properties in that? JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Well, the fact that you could generate
completely new ones, I think was surprising. I don't think that had
really been shown before. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Even
a painting, right? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah. Actually-- SHLOMI FRUCHTER: A drawing. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Yeah, I mean, you know the work better than me. We even had a picture
of my dog in the park, and you could move her left
and right like a platform game. But of course, she's not one. We also had Jeff Clune was
an advisor of the project. His children did a
bunch of drawings, and we were able to
animate those and move them around like games. And I think it's safe
to say that was not in the training data. So I'm happy to call that
an emergent property. It looked quite different
to what it was trained on. And thanks, Shlomi,
for reminding me, because it's been
a couple of years. HANNAH FRY: And then the step
between Genie 1 and Genie 2 was making it 3D. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah, so
it was increasing the diversity of the things it could do. So compared to Genie 1, which
was just 2D platform games, it was 2D games, but as well
as 3D environments as well in the same model. It was also higher
resolution, and there was a lot more consistency so
it would last a bit longer when you interacted with it. So it was really a
step up in capability in a few different
dimensions, which required a much more
concentrated effort to get that to be possible. And we weren't sure if it
would actually work at all. So it was more of
a proof of concept at a slightly larger scale. And that gave us confidence
that what we have now would be achievable. HANNAH FRY: So you were working
on building an environment that you could interact with,
and meanwhile, in parallel, you were working on
video generation. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes. So my background is
actually in 3D game engines. And a very long time ago, I
used to work on simulations. That was kind of where
I started working on AI. Back then we didn't use even AI. We called it ML. But in the last
few years, I really got more excited
as the technology evolved and then worked on
image models, video models. And yeah, in the last two years,
video models, as we all know, got to new levels of realism. And I remember looking
at one of the-- I think it was the Imagen
video models and just saying, how is it possible that there is
a full simulation of the world just in this model? It's just mind blowing, if you
think about the level of realism that those models even initially
achieved compared to simulation using 3D graphics methods. And then with Veo,
what we've tried to do is basically to build the
best possible video model. And when I saw the results,
I started thinking, OK, what happens if-- can
we do that in real time? And I was obviously following
the work by Jack and team, and I think that was
also very inspiring. And we just said, OK, we
have to go to the next level. HANNAH FRY: So what were
the elements from Veo that you wanted to combine or
learn from for this project? Because it's not just
the visual aesthetic. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: The
quality and the realism is very something that
we really invested in. And I think there is
a level of realism where I think we kind of
got to it with Veo 2 that-- the physics are not perfect,
but it's good enough to start to be useful
so we can actually create some scenes that
are indistinguishable from real footage. Not everything. Not all the time. But it's starting
to be there, right? With Veo 3, we also added
audio and other stuff. So taking it to the next
step of basically making this interactive was
the obvious next step. But technically it's quite
challenging, especially terms of how fast we should
create the next frames. That's what was one
of the core challenges for the project for Genie 3. And I think the approach
that we have overall is to try and understand
how those models train, how they're being
trained, how they learn. And the same kind of principles
that helped us scale and improve Veo, we found them to be
useful for Genie 3 as well. HANNAH FRY: It seems to me-- OK. As an outsider, it seems
to me that the objective of Genie and Veo are, I
mean, even though they look visually quite similar,
the objectives of them are quite different. Veo, you're trying to
create this very realistic, non-interactive environment,
whereas with Genie you need to make this consistent,
explorable world that you can move around in. Do you have to
start from scratch or is there kind of
swaps that you can make? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: So
I think in a way, if you think about the video
model, you can tell it, OK, I want to walk
around maybe a volcano or I want to-- the camera
to move that way or another. So what it does is basically
looking at this entire video and tries to create a coherent
eight second or whatever long video, and it can change
the past and the future at the same time. I think that's the
property of video models that is very different
from Genie 3. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Because
it spits out the end result. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Exactly. And you can think of
it like as a painting that you can change all the
time everything on the canvas. And while it's much,
in a way, easier than doing it in what
we call autoregressive or just extending
one frame at a time. So I think that's the
fundamental difference. There's still a lot
of similar aspects. For example, the way
that we have eventually to take some text
input and convert it to some kind of visual output. So that's somewhat similar. So I would say definitely
we don't start from scratch. We build on top of, I think,
a lot of work in this space, but there are definitely
some novel properties that we had to figure out. HANNAH FRY: Well, that's
super interesting, actually, the idea that time is the
key component in this, that you have to
understand the past and march forward to the future. That's where the autoregressive
stuff comes in, right? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Exactly. So essentially
every frame you see is generated from scratch
at that point in time. So things that happen
later in the interaction aren't known yet, and things
that happen at the beginning have to all be
remembered by the model. So essentially, if we're
doing 24 frames per second, it's like doing image
generation 24 times per second, each one completely
generating from scratch, given all of the
past and the actions of the agent or human player. HANNAH FRY: There's an
analogy here, though. I mean, that's sort of the
way that language models work, right? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes, exactly. So I think it's
really a good example. So we know that language
models are basically being trained to predict
the next token or word. So they look at text
and try to guess, OK, what's the distribution of words
or tokens that happen to follow? And what we have with
autoregressive word models, we actually have
a similar problem. We want to basically predict
the next observation, which is pretty much visual,
the next frame, given what was already seen. And the nice thing, I think, in
this kind of parallel to LLMs is that LLMs learn from
that very simple task, a very rich, potentially,
representation of the world or how people think, how people
solve problems, for example. I think the reason
that word models, especially autoregressive
word models, are kind of exciting
for us is because maybe through that task,
that is pretty much simple task that
anyone can understand, they have to learn the
dynamics of the world. And I think it's nice, if
you really think about it, it's kind of a superset
of intelligence. Because through the
world, if you say, OK, now I'm playing chess
with some grandmaster and it was the next visual or
the next frame would actually be their next maybe move. So of course, our model is
not capable of doing that, but at the limit, it kind
of goes very, very far. HANNAH FRY: But it's these
ideas of understanding the past, the context, and being
able to predict the next move in the future, which is-- SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah. It's also quite
powerful, because it means you can start
in the same location and do many very
different things. So from an agent's
perspective, there could even be quite
a simple task, but you want to get
really good at it. And so you can simulate
various different scenarios. This is very analogous to
reinforcement learning paradigm, where you have this end reset
function that brings you back to the same state. And then you want to get
more experience from there. HANNAH FRY: Well, let's
inch through this then. So the very first frame. You can have an image, like
you did with the painting, but you can also have
a text input, right? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes, of course. HANNAH FRY: I mean,
I know you asked me earlier to describe
somewhere I'd been, and I got to go to a hunter's
lodge in Siberia once. So it was the most impressive
thing I could come up with. And this is what I sent to you. I went to hunter's lodge, sat
on a reindeer skin in the woods outside of Yakutsk in
Siberia, drank vodka, and ate frozen calf liver. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes, so-- HANNAH FRY: Tell me
what you did with that. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: So first, we
were surprised with the prompt, but then we just tried to-- we put it into the system, and
the system is basically able to add a few more details to
the prompt that you provided. But still it does follow the
key elements that you provided. So for example, I
think it's reasonably-- I'm not sure if it's a
reindeer, but it's definitely-- so, and then here you
can see the table. HANNAH FRY: It's really amazing. The light, again. You guys are very-- you love making the
light late afternoon, a beautiful golden hour. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: You
also missed the calf liver. And it's frozen, too. Frozen calf liver. It's not even just calf liver. HANNAH FRY: That first frame
is generated in the same way as you might find in Veo. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. So the model doesn't treat
it like in any special way. It's just like you
give it a text, and it just starts
outputting frames and it doesn't do any
preparation before it. It just throws
you into the world and you can go
wherever you want. HANNAH FRY: And then it's
from that first frame that the prediction
backwards and forwards. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Exactly, yeah. So it's like text
to first frame, then first action to
next frame and so on and so forth from that
point onwards, basically. HANNAH FRY: And how critical is
the exact wording of the prompt here? I mean, can you get better
images, better worlds with better prompts? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah, I
think that's definitely true. There's an art to
prompting, I think, all of these modern models, and
some people are better at it than others. And fortunately,
we have some people who are much better
than me at this. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: This one worked
pretty much out of the box. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
This one, yeah. Often they work pretty
well, especially when you have very vivid description,
like the table with the vodka and the frozen calf's liver. But sometimes you can try
something and not quite capture exactly what you
wanted first time, and then you can iterate
a little bit on the prompt and then get something that's
much more like what you wanted. HANNAH FRY: And
does that require you to regenerate the world? Or given that it's
marching forwards, can you add things
in on the fly? SHLOMI FRUCHTER:
So we do have ways to add things on the fly, what
we call promptable world events. And this is just something
that you can say, OK, now I want, for example,
a balloon to fly in or some other
character to show up. This is something we're very
excited about because it also allows the environment to be
more interesting for people, but also, as we mentioned,
more relevant for training agents in simulation,
because then we can throw in something
that happens in the world that they have to adapt to. HANNAH FRY: So in
that example, maybe have a reindeer coming through. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Right. We can have a
reindeer, or we can have another person is
walking into the scene and then we have to--
if it's an agent, basically, it can respond
to it, and if it's just for entertainment
purposes, then it's much more interesting than
just walking in a world that nothing happens. HANNAH FRY: And this
is all a key advantage of the autoregressive
part, I guess, that you do have
control over the future. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Exactly. Yeah. So you can just inject
things on the fly as you're generating
things in real time. HANNAH FRY: The thing that I
find extraordinary about this is the consistency. Right? The memory of the system. You turn away and
then you turn back, and it's exactly
how you left it. But presumably, if you're
turning in a direction you haven't yet
turned in, then it's sort of a stochastic process. So how do you balance it,
that it's sometimes a memory and sometimes generated
statistically? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Well, it's
kind of a mixture of things. So you can, in the
text prompt, specify things that are
out of sight, which I think is quite powerful
compared to image prompting. Because you can say, on
the right is x, y, z, and then when you actually
look round to the right, it's there when you actually
play or interact in the world. But then there is
also an element of the model using its world
knowledge to generate things. So in the Hopper example
with the artwork, it does generate the street
that we haven't seen before. And you can't be exactly certain
what it's going to generate. The model uses its
own sort of intuition of what should be there. HANNAH FRY: And that's
intuition based on, I mean, having watched, I mean,
incredible amounts of video footage in advance. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. So basically the model is
trying to just generate a sequence of frames that is
representative of the world. So if it already saw
some part or generated some part of the world, then the
right thing for the model to do would be to make-- to recall this
memory and use it. So if I look back to
where I've already been, then the right
thing for the model would just to use
the same thing. But when you look to a new area
from the model's perspective, again, it can allow itself
to generate something new because it hasn't been seen. So the model doesn't
really treat it in a fundamentally
different way. So the model, it learns
to basically balance the two aspects. And again, all comes back to
anchoring all of the generation to the prompt or what
the user provided. That's where the information
to the generation comes from. HANNAH FRY: But then
I guess going back to the language analogy that
we were talking about earlier. It's not that
surprising that once a statement has been
established in a conversation, that it remains consistent
when you refer back to it. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Exactly, yeah. And we've seen with language
models, this ability to have memory and consistency
has been something that's improved a lot recently,
especially with the latest Gemini models now
versus two years ago. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. I think what's interesting
here is that while, if you think about the number
of the size of the memory or the level of detail. So if we think about
I'm talking to Gemini, and after a few sentences,
it might refer to something I've said before. That's great. But the number of details that
we have in those visual words is just like, it's
staggering, right? The quality of the memory,
considering how much detail and how much information it
has to actually remember. Yeah. HANNAH FRY: Well,
how do you do that? Does this require you having
a sort of 3D representation of the world that you're in? JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
We don't use anything like that for this
version of the model. It's largely just learnt as an
emergent property just from this autoregressive prediction. HANNAH FRY: You guys with
your emergent properties. My goodness me. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: We are very
good students of the Beatles. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah,
I think it's similar to, if you're predicting
the next frame, you just have to learn to
remember these critical things in the past. And obviously the model
has some representations that prioritize the
important details, but it really is just
predicting the next frame. HANNAH FRY: And is this
analogous, then, to the fact that language models have
this conceptual understanding and can describe
similar things in-- the same things
in different ways? Is it the transformer
architecture here that's allowing
you to do that? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes. So the architecture is-- I think almost everything
today is a transformer. So yes, this is
also a transformer. And looking back,
basically the model, we will see what was
already generated, including in the user provided
inputs, and based on that, makes the prediction. So I think the interesting
question about explicit 3D is that the model probably had
to learn some representation, but it's just not an
explicit representation. So we see that the ability
of the model to understand 3D environments is very strong. And I think the most, to me,
an emergent, if you want, capability, is that
it actually works where it was not trained for. For example, in
taking a painting, an oil painting in 1942 and
actually making it into some kind of a 3D environment. That's pretty much out
of its distribution. HANNAH FRY: Absolutely. I want to go back to this
idea of understanding physics. Jack, if you've got this world
that you can put an agent in, does that mean that you can
test how well it knows physics? I mean, could you get a hammer
and a feather, for instance, and allow it to drop
it at the same time? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: You
definitely could do that. I think that would probably
be close to the frontier of the model's
capabilities at this point. We've seen it's quite good at
visual things and things that are more general concepts. So you can imagine
water occurs in quite a lot of different
scenarios it's seen before. Gravity has probably
occurred in many of those, but probably not
these exact objects. But I think if you were to
specify in the text prompt, like in the world,
there is a feather that has less gravity and a
hammer that is heavier, maybe then it would work. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. I think there are a lot of-- those models are
inherently visual. They don't know
anything about the world except for what we can see. And that's a
limitation, I would say. Even for video
models, some things sometimes don't make sense. And the model has to guess if
something is heavy, for example. There is no real way for a
model to look at an image and say, OK, that's how
much this thing weigh. So it kind of
makes up the weight and then try to simulate
what would have happened. And sometimes it breaks. And we know that from video
models, even the best video models. And I think what we
have is basically we solve an even harder problem
because we have to, as we said, not just-- we
can't fix the past. We have to go-- once the model
generates something, it has to roll with it. And I think we have really good
progress in terms of simulation, like fluid dynamics. But maybe some other aspects
of the world physically would not be accurate
because of those limitations. HANNAH FRY: Well, tell
me some of the work that you've been doing with
agents so far, because actually on a previous episode, we got
to talk about SIMA, the Scalable Instructable Multiworld Agent. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: Which they were
putting into existing computer game environments. But I mean, you
can now take SIMA and put it into these
generated environments too. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Exactly. So the cool thing with
this is that we've got-- at Google DeepMind,
we have these agents that are trained to be general. The M is multiworld,
as you just said. And so what we're able to do is
take all the worlds we generate and then test whether
these agents and the latest versions of them are
able to already use them for agent training or collecting
experiences or evaluations as they are. So you can say to it something
like, navigate to the robot over there, and then you can
give it an image from the world and it can take
the first action. And then from that
point onwards, it's interacting in the
world through actions. But the Genie 3 model does
not know what the goal is. So that makes it like
a genuine simulation, rather than if you were to tell
Genie 3 that the SIMA agent is trying to achieve this goal. It might make the
experience not authentic, because it might make it
happen in an incorrect way. HANNAH FRY: For it. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Yeah, exactly. HANNAH FRY: I guess if you've
got a robot in the real world, the world isn't
helping the robot. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Exactly. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Exactly. You can't say, OK, the robot
has to go to fetch the red cube, and then it looks to the
left and there is a red cube. It's a bit making it. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Yeah, and this is a problem that we've
encountered in other scenarios, but you don't really
get this problem if you have this separation
between the agent and the environment. And that's the really nice thing
of working with agent teams that are focused on building
really capable agents, but then having them
access our environment as if it's any other environment. So the new worlds that
are created by Genie 3 look the same as
the existing worlds that the SIMA agent
was trained on. HANNAH FRY: But then what
if there isn't a red cube? What if it searches
around forever and there is no red cube? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: So yeah, I
think that's part of the things that we're looking
into is how we can add more details as we go. For example, if you put the
agent in some room and then it has to open maybe a drawer
and find something in there. So we want to be able to inject
kind of events into the world and control it. So I think the
interesting frontier here is how you can make the
world look very realistic and also control
what's happening in the world in a way
that still makes sense. So I think what we've seen is
that with our prompt about world events, we can add things
that happen in the world. But if you just want something
to pop into the world, then it's not necessarily
a plausible thing. If you look at-- I don't know, if
you're in the desert, and then you're going
to ask it, OK, now I want to see an elephant,
then where is this elephant going to come from? So maybe it's going
to come from the side or when you look to the left. So I think there is something
really interesting in what does it mean to change a
world, because the model has some assumptions. And when it comes
to agents, this is definitely an
important capability to be able to inject this
new event into the world. HANNAH FRY: So you've
done this already. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah, we've
got signs of life for this. I think we haven't
really say we've got a full agent
training loop where we're already doing
some large scale training in these environments. But what we can already do
is test the agents in them and see how they do. And I think it's
quite remarkable that, given these things
weren't developed together, we just dropped the agent in
and it can already do things. And you can imagine all
the different things you could now use this for. HANNAH FRY: Color
that in for me. Give me an example. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: If
you have a factory where you have
some robots and you want to introduce maybe a new-- maybe a very boring example,
but a new machine, right? And that wasn't there. Or you changed somehow the
structure of the building and you want to test the
robot before you actually put them in the new building. So again, this is like you
can simulate the world that basically is a variant of
what maybe the agent has seen in the past and
see if it breaks. Right? Everything can happen in
simulated environments and not necessarily
break your new machine. So that's one
example, I would say. HANNAH FRY: Find the
unintended consequences. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah, yeah. And the evaluation of the model. So that's even not
training the agent, just testing how well
it adapts, maybe, to a new variation
of an environment. HANNAH FRY: All
of these examples you've given so far are where
the agent has a specified objective, which I know is
the point of SIMA thus far. But what about if you had agents
that didn't have an objective? There was a really nice
quote that I came across, which is that almost
no prerequisite to any major invention was made
with that invention in mind. Can you imagine a
point in the future where you are letting agents
loose in these environments without specifying an
objective for them? JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Yeah, exactly. So the quote comes from "Why
Greatness Cannot Be Planned," which is from Ken
Stanley and Joel Lehman. It's a great book. And the general idea
there is that searching for interestingness
might actually lead to things that are more
useful for practical goals than if you just directly
optimize for the practical goals themselves. And clearly, the
bigger the domain and the space for discovery,
the more interesting things could happen. So they had this
really nice example quite a while ago with this
paper called Picbreeder, where essentially they allowed people
to select images and combine them to create new images that
were mutations of those two. People weren't directly
optimizing for specific end goals, but by just choosing
what they found interesting, they ended up discovering really
cool, structured pictures, like a skull or a butterfly,
that weren't obvious how you would reach that
from the starting points. And some of the stepping
stones along the way didn't really look much
like the final goal, and they wouldn't have
been things you obviously would have chosen to go for if
you had those goals in mind. And there are lots of examples
of this in the real world. If you are, for example,
trying to reach the moon, you wouldn't build
a bigger ladder. So optimizing along one
dimension with maybe a greedy, myopic
approach doesn't always lead you to make
these big leaps. HANNAH FRY: Well, I
mean, evolution itself is like the classic example of
iteration without objective. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah, and
we see this a lot in research. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. My perspective on that is
that I think we as humans, we decide what's interesting. I think there is
even an example where the entire evolution
of mathematics was guided by people deciding
what's next, what's interesting, what's not interesting, and
just the problem being hard doesn't mean that it's
interesting at all. And I think in a
way, when we think about generating new
things in science, it's like the goal or the--
it doesn't have to be a goal, but there is some aspects of
maybe beauty or interest that is coming from us,
and models might maybe learn to simulate that. But I think it's
really important to remember that we
ultimately decide what's interesting as our
preferences as people. HANNAH FRY: I mean, you haven't
had the move 37, as it were, in this method. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Even in this
case, the goal of Go or the game was designed in a
certain way that people find it interesting
to play, otherwise-- and it's a very ancient game. So I'm just saying that the
setup, even when there is-- or getting to the
moon, this goal was kind of maybe
made by people. So I'm just saying, I
think there is still broader constraints
set by us, in a way. If a machine comes up
with a problem to solve, we still have to say, is
this an interesting problem? Because otherwise
we're just like, OK, I don't care about that. So I think there is still an
aesthetic part to anything that's open-ended to me. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Yeah, I think there was this quote from Dennis
a while ago about the levels of creativity, and it was
like, interpolation is one. Like, you see a new cat and
you can identify it as a cat. Extrapolation was one where it's
like, given the rules of Go, can you discover a
new move like move 37? And then the third level
is generating completely new things. So, could you actually
invent Go, is what he said. And we actually had this as a
motivation for the Genie project at the beginning. It was like, can you create
completely new things? And I think we're starting
to see that happen. Since it's a completely new kind
of model, someone on the team will do something like create
a certain kind of world, and then immediately other
members of the team are like, that's really interesting. And then they start evolving
that idea themselves. And then we post
it on social media and we see the reaction
to some things, and then we know
that's interesting. So then we create
new things that way. And that's just with a very
limited access to the model. So clearly you can see if
we open this up a bit more in the future,
that it could lead to some sort of open-ended
creativity that way. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: It's kind of
like but still the evolution. It's like an evolution
with the criteria that people find interesting. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Yeah, exactly. There's people in the loop
guiding the interestingness. HANNAH FRY: Well, then,
OK, could you take-- I'm just thinking back
to the conversation that we had with Dave
Silver earlier in the series where he was saying,
actually, there's one way you remove
humans from the equation and actually you get even more
surprising results, potentially. OK, just play along with
me here for a moment. But could you get to
a point where you just simulate the first, I don't
know, single-celled organism and allow it to
evolve inside of Genie and actually watch the
process of evolution happen in a virtual environment? JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
That's a great question. And that's the dream of an
A life, open-ended evolution community. I think maybe the
worlds that we create are not fully rich
enough, but I definitely think that we're
getting along that path. So open-ended
evolution and A life, they've been
designing worlds that could facilitate this kind
of thing, typically in code. And so this could be
an alternative approach to getting maybe richer
real world simulations. And so in theory, I mean, we've
made quite a lot of progress pretty fast. But if you've got the simulation
to be fully like the real world, and it had the kind of
objectives and constraints that lead to these kind
of evolutionary steps, then it's definitely plausible. But I can't say it's
definitely there yet. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: It's
not a direct answer, but I actually tried. I think there is maybe a very
basic example of Game of Life. HANNAH FRY: John Conway's. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. It has four rules,
and then I actually tried using Veo to simulate it. You give it an image
and it doesn't work. Like, it does look
like it's evolving. And if you don't
know the rules, you would look like, yeah,
it looks reasonable. Different pixels light
up, but it doesn't follow the four rules of the game. I think this is a good example
for what our current models are able to do, and what
they are less-- still limited in their ability
to follow specific rules. To actually evolve
maybe life forms, I think you need much
more ability to do both, to also simulate
the physical world, but also follow some
basic rules of physics in a very accurate way. HANNAH FRY: Constrained way. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yes,
and constrained way. And I think we're not-- like,
we see some glimpse of it, but it's definitely very
far from being able to have evolution on a GPU. HANNAH FRY: Well, thank you
for going philosophical with me for a moment there. I enjoyed that. Let's come back down
to Earth with a thump, though, because, I mean,
there are safety implications with this. What are your main concerns? JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
I think there's different levels of concern. There's the known things,
and they're quite obvious. I mean, things like
violence, maybe we wouldn't want to occur
in the world in new ways. And that's something that we
can already start addressing. But there's also maybe
some more gray areas where we're not
actually really sure how we feel about these things,
like historical settings, for instance. Some of them may be
unsavory for subtle reasons, and those are just
things that we as a team can see quite clearly. But I think there's
probably also some things that we haven't considered. And we'd rather get
those things right by limiting our early
access and getting feedback, which we're already doing. And we've already learned
a lot from the folks that we brought in a few
weeks ago and the folks that we're still
interacting with. HANNAH FRY: Like what? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: We
found a lot of new use cases that I didn't think of. Vocational training could
actually be quite impactful. Lots of people can't
go into the role of things like
firefighting, for instance. What does it feel
like to actually be there without having
a visceral experience? It's probably something that you
would benefit a lot from being able to simulate in advance. Even if it's not perfectly
correct from a simulation perspective, there
may be elements to it that just getting
a sense of what it's like to be situated in
that specific circumstance, that it's quite nice to be
able to simulate in advance. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Minus the heat. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah. Minus the heat and the smoke. HANNAH FRY: And the
genuine jeopardy. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yes. HANNAH FRY: But actually, you
raised another interesting point there though, because
you said even if it's not perfectly realistic. Is there also
another danger about this gap between what's
simulated and what's real? How do you make that
as small as possible? This is something--
the sim to real gap is something we spoke about
in this podcast lots of times before. Let's say you've
got your example where you've got a robot in a
factory and it's moving around. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: In
terms of reliability. HANNAH FRY: It's interacting. You can't directly take that
and map it into the real world, right? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. So I think over time,
we'll see more control, basically being able to take
maybe a real environment, map it into the model so the
model can base its generation on the real environment. And we see it to an
extent, whether we're starting from an image
or starting from a video. And now the question is,
would it be perfectly the same as the real world? Probably not. I don't think it's even well
defined what does it mean. But I think the gap is
definitely narrowing. So we can take environments. In the past, we know a
lot of the RL environments look very far from
anything that's photorealistic or real world,
but now we can go even closer. But definitely there
still remains a gap, and we will have to see
what are the implications. And we're still not using
it for any real world deployment, of course. Yeah. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Yeah, I think it's kind of an iterative approach. I don't think we're saying,
right, now, we've got Genie 3, we've solved simulation for
any possible embodied task. But I think what we
can do is combine it with other techniques. So we still would train
our agents in the same way that we already
did without this, and we'd use it to augment
the training process. And then another
element to it is it's really important that
it has some diversity. So if it's always
wrong in the same way, then agents might learn to
exploit that inaccuracy. Whereas if the
model can generate quite diverse different
worlds, then what we can do is really test the breadth
of agents' capabilities and make sure that
there's no scenario where it does something really wrong. That might actually
be a strength. So same in sim to real. We want to do domain
randomization. Maybe by having a model that
is a generative model, being able to search the
space of possibilities and check that all
of them, the agents do something sensible
might be a good thing. But that doesn't mean you
want to completely train it that that is the real world. Maybe you want to use it make
it more adversarially robust rather than learn specifics. HANNAH FRY: Let me make sure
I understand that, then. So if it's wrong but wrong
in unpredictable ways, then actually that might
end up making the agent more robust in the long run. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: Yeah. So what you want to do--
it's similar to domain randomization-- is
you want to make sure that there's no plausible
scenario where the agent could do something really unsafe. It's quite a different
objective than if you had one specifically
incorrect scenario and then you told the agent exactly
how to behave from that one. Instead, it's make it so that
in any possible future world, the agent should be able
to do something sensible. HANNAH FRY: That's
so interesting, then, because I was sort of
imagining that you were trying to nudge this towards it
being more realistic to more towards getting more reliable
outcomes towards closing that gap of sim to real. But I mean, the way
you're describing this is that not necessarily. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: I
think the question is, what do you mean by reliable? Because reliable, to
me, is that is probably a lot about following
the instructions that we provide the model. So if we want the model to
simulate a specific environments and we describe it
with a lot of detail, we want the model
to follow that. If there is something not so
plausible in this description, the models should
still follow that. I think the challenge
is that sometimes we as people, or for
various reasons, we're interested in the
less plausible scenarios. We're just looking at the tree
in the middle of-- for example, in some of the
examples we saw today, you want some vodka
and the calf liver. All right? So that's not a very-- it's not if you
just sample from all of the possible tables
in Siberia, probably that's not in the middle
of the distribution. So I think that the
reliability to me comes mostly from following
the description that we provide the model with and simulating
the world in a way that would be close to that. JACK PARKER-HOLDER: I think
that's a really good point, actually. I think it's in underspecified
environments you want diversity, because you want
to be able to adapt to anything within the
plausible distribution. But if you have a very
well specified environment, then you want it to be accurate. And I think we're kind
of seeing improvement on both those dimensions,
but we're probably not fully there yet. HANNAH FRY: Let me go back
to that AGI question-- if I may. The end question that
everyone always wants to ask. Do you think that this is
a step towards it, Jack? JACK PARKER-HOLDER: I think
AGI is something itself, which is relatively
subjective and people have different interpretations
of what you mean by AGI. So I think it would be
quite maybe grandiose to say our model is the key thing
in the whole field that will enable AGI. But I think for me, an
AGI needs to be embodied and be able to act in
the physical world. That's what really excites me. I think that could really
improve people's quality of life in any demographic
anywhere in the world. And so with that
framing, I definitely think this is an important tool. I can't see how an embodied
AGI or AGI that is embodied would be able to operate
any scenario in the world without being able
to simulate it, to gather experience and
learn from its own experience. Because that's the paradigm that
we've used in other settings to get superhuman
capabilities or even just robust capabilities. And so I believe very strongly
that we need simulation, and I also believe
very strongly that we won't be able to build a
simulator of the real world any other way. So when you combine
those two things, I think, yes, it is a big
step for my version of AGI. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. And I think it's a
really good answer. On top of that, I would just
say that our current generation of AI is limited to
connect the digital world. For AI to be useful
for us, definitely it has to have some kind of
real world interaction. So I think, again, it's a
small step towards that, towards that embodied AI. And there are definitely a
lot of gaps to get there, so I think we need much better
signals for, for example, robots get while they walk
through the world. They need to get some
physical response. It's not enough just to have
a visual input and output. So I just think that
this is definitely a step towards
that vision, yeah. HANNAH FRY: Because there is
still a lot that this can't do. I mean, the additional
sensors being one of them. But also doesn't handle people
that well at the moment, Jack? JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Exactly, and I think that's really the
key thing is I both think this is one of the most
promising technologies to achieve sociable and
socially aware robots, and embodied agents,
but also, I think that's the biggest
limitation, probably, of the current
iteration of the model is that it doesn't
do this perfectly. Right? Because our standards
have raised, and that's the thing
that we now think is something that
isn't good enough. But I think it's really critical
that we do have that, right? Because even if our
robots and embodied agents fully understand
physics, I think physics are fairly
consistent around the world but people are not, right? And we want these
agents, robots, whatever form
factor they come in, to be able to really
augment humans and work with humans to make
our quality of life better. And so they need to
understand how humans think, work, interact, and be able
to work with us on things. And so that's what
I think we're really excited about, as one
of the things that might be enabled by our model. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah, I
think there are definitely a lot of limitations
that are in terms of the quality of
the generation. But what I mostly-- I'm very excited
about this, the pace. If you think about it, we had
Genie 2, Veo 2 in December, and we definitely feel
the pace, the impact on it in our personal lives. But the field is
just moving fast. And if we remember just, what,
less than two years ago, we had images generated
with six fingers and that was a big
thing, and nobody is speaking about that anymore. So I don't see why we won't
be able to generate people in much higher fidelity and
with everything that follows. HANNAH FRY: Is the
goal here, then, to have a foundational model? To essentially do for
simulated worlds what LLMs have done for language? JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Yeah, exactly. I think you put it better
than probably than I could. I think this is really a
step change as a foundation model in terms of the breadth
and generality and capabilities. And I think this is probably
similar to what Shlomi alluded to as we've seen
with images recently, where there were
things obviously like the fingers to
them now being, I mean, pretty incredible. We saw the same thing with
video maybe in the past year where, once we had
something like Veo 2, it's looking pretty
amazing at this point. And we saw this
with language models maybe three or four
years ago, where they started to
get really capable, and we wanted to
get to that point for this new kind of
foundation model, sort of an autoregressive
world model. Now we're there,
there's a whole host of different potential
things that could be used for and have impact on, and we're
still fairly early in that right now. HANNAH FRY: But are there
elements of simulation too? Do you think that you will ever
be able to use this kind of idea to recreate a lived experience,
rather than just a visual one? SHLOMI FRUCHTER: So we
have many, many senses that we're not even aware of. So, for example, a
proprioceptive perception that we are basically
we feel where we are and we have
this kind of notion of where we are in the world. When we think about actually
putting people in a simulation to really feel kind
of immersed in it, I think this is a
huge part of it, and basically the constraint
to visual and maybe audio is still too much
of a constraint. I think that there is
definitely a potential for that, but it goes through
multiple technologies that we have to build
to actually get there. So before that, I
expect people to be able to interact with
photorealistic environments, but still through some kind
of an interface that will be like a hybrid interface. Like maybe they can
feel some sensation for maybe gloves or something. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
I think I would also say that there is
definitely something about being interactive
in real time that does make a big difference
for the experience. We've had members of the team
say that they visited childhood locations, for example, and
did actually get a sense for it that you couldn't really get
from an image or a video. So there is already some
sort of degree of experience that you can gain from
this kind of model already. And obviously,
we're working hard to make it an even more
capable model in the future, so maybe that will extend. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Yeah. Actually, it reminds
me of a project that we had earlier in the
year that the team at Google used Veo, actually,
to help people with early onset of dementia
to go back to their childhood memories and reconstruct them. So I can imagine
that that might be, for example, a potentially
therapeutic tool as well, that it can not
only look at the video, but maybe actually relive
or remember some things from their childhood. So I think that even
before, we don't need to go very far
for things to have positive impact on the world. HANNAH FRY: Amazing. That was absolutely fascinating. Thank you so much. JACK PARKER-HOLDER:
Thanks for having us. SHLOMI FRUCHTER: Thanks
for having us, Hannah. HANNAH FRY: I think the
most impressive part of this is not what you're
looking at on the screen. It's how that is generated. It's this change that
this model represents, from creating realistic images
or videos of the real world, as though they were
frozen moments in time, into something that can
actually handle time in the way that we experience it,
with an arrow that's pointing in only one direction,
where effect follows cause to build this consistent,
forward moving world where the present is a
direct result of the past. And that is why
I think that this is an early hint of
something that's much bigger. This is not just a new
way to design games or beautiful environments. This here is the
bedrock for machines that can genuinely plan
and reason about our world. You have been listening
to "Google DeepMind-- The Podcast" with me,
Professor Hannah Fry. Now we're going to take a little
bit of a pause over the summer, but we're going to be back with
more episodes in the autumn from Google HQ in California. And in the meantime,
do take a look at our extensive back catalog,
which covers everything from tools for creators
to AI for drug discovery. See you soon.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: vIIIau06wGo (https://youtu.be/vIIIau06wGo) ===


HANNAH FRY: It sort of
seems a bit bonkers to me that we're in 2025 and this
hasn't been done already. I mean, do we not know
where the forests are? DREW PURVES: A lot
of the information that we want about the natural
world has never been recorded like that on paper
necessarily-- where all the different
species of trees are or where the
habitats are or where the boundaries between the
rough grassland and wetland are. So we need to actually
create that information for the first time. HANNAH FRY: Thing is, I can see
the potential for this in terms of scientific interest,
but I do wonder whether, let's say, we get to a point
where you can understand what dolphins are saying,
communicate with the higher animals on the planet. Does it change how
we view ourselves and our place in the world? DREW PURVES: I think yeah. I think it absolutely
has that potential. [MUSIC PLAYING] HANNAH FRY: Welcome back
to "Google DeepMind-- The Podcast." I'm Professor Hannah Fry. Now, we focus a lot
in this podcast on AI and its interactions
with humans. But there is another story
that's unfolding, one in which AI could help
protect our planet. Think oceans and forests and
deserts and fragile ecosystems and the millions
of animal species that are crawling, swimming,
and flying across this Earth. AI has the potential
to tackle one of the biggest challenges
of our time, the damage to nature and ecosystems. But with a problem that's this
vast, where do you even begin? Well, Drew Purves, Nature
Lead at Google DeepMind, is my guide through the rich
terrain of AI for nature. He has got two
decades of experience in ecological research and
has been at Google DeepMind for almost 10 years now. Drew, thank you so
much for joining me. DREW PURVES: Oh, thanks. It's great to be here. HANNAH FRY: I think
most people probably agree by now that
the environment is an important aspect of our
future, something that deserves preserving and looking after. What's holding us
back in this area? What's making it a
difficult problem? DREW PURVES: The
short answer to that often is lack of information. So you're right. There's this groundswell
now of agreement about the importance of
biodiversity, ecosystems, and nature. And then we have signs of
action in different sectors, in the private sector,
in the government sector. If you look at some
of the numbers, for example, there
are 189 countries around the world that
have signed up to the 30 by 30 plan, which is to protect
30% of ecosystems on land and in the oceans by
the year 2030, things that there's so much
to feel good about. But often, when it comes down
to actually taking action on the ground to either
protect or restore biodiversity and ecosystems, there's just
a lack of basic information. HANNAH FRY: So what are the
big questions that AI could help answer in this space then? DREW PURVES: I mean, there are
a number of them, obviously. But for example, if you're
thinking about a protection scenario, protecting
biodiversity, you need to know where
the biodiversity is. It might be focal species, or it
might be biodiversity hotspots, and so on. It might be a particular
endemic species. If it's a restoration
scenario, you want to find particular
places around the world that have the highest potential
for ecological restoration. But for example, you might need
to know which species of trees to plant or which species
of animals to reintroduce. So down at this
local level-- it's because biodiversity
is so place-specific. You need that locally relevant
information for communities or whatever local
action is happening to guide the action down there. And often, it's just missing. HANNAH FRY: Is that the big
goal, then, of Google DeepMind, using AI in nature
to really fill in the information
gaps in the same way that we have done
for the human world? DREW PURVES: Well, here
at Google DeepMind, we're growing a portfolio of
work around AI for nature. And there are at least
three key categories of AI for nature to explore. So the first of
those is AI for data. And that can mean bringing
in data from the field from things like
cameras, microphones, and so on, or
identifying and bringing in data from the
literature because there's a huge amount of data there. The second category, though,
is taking all of that data and combining it with lots
of other sources of data, like satellite data
and so on, to create that derived information
that decision-makers need to protect or enhance nature. And then, the third category,
which is easy to miss, is that all the information
in the world is fine, but human beings can get
overwhelmed by that amount of data. So then there's this key role
for active deployment of AI to help decision-making,
to help people make sense of all that data. HANNAH FRY: And I guess,
in part because this is quite a new area, right? I mean, this hasn't been
around for as long as some of the other applications of AI. It's not as obvious of
how to solve biodiversity as it might be to solve
disease, for instance. DREW PURVES: I
think that's true. It does feel like a
growth area in AI. It's kind of
interesting, actually. That ecology obviously
has a long history. But interestingly, mathematical
ecology and statistical ecology and even machine learning
ecology has a long history, too. Fisher, for instance, the
famous Fisherian statistics, a lot of that was developed
in an ecological context. I think that's because ecology
is inherently quite challenging. There's no obvious way to
record and frame ecology. You've got a vast
variety of species. You've got processes
operating at different scales. The temporal signals
are always really noisy. And so it's interesting. It's always been a little bit
of a challenging domain that has led to innovation in
statistics and machine learning. And so we very much
expect that, in the work we're doing now, trying to
apply this deep learning, for instance, the recent AI
revolution to ecology, that also will be a way to innovate. HANNAH FRY: OK, well, let's dig
into some of this stuff then. So in particular, in that
middle layer of taking in data and deriving something from it--
because I mean, a lot of this involves mapping, that
fundamental stage. Tell us a little bit about
mapping the biosphere. DREW PURVES: So many of the
decisions in environment and ecology come down to place. And that's because, in
ecology and biodiversity, each place is so different--
different species, different habitats, and
often different issues that you need to deal with,
whether it's agriculture or wildfires, et cetera. So all of that "missing
information" I mentioned before, most of the time, it's
missing geo information. And so, very simply, you
can think of that as maps. And so we need to map habitats. That's the substrate over which
ecology plays because substrate is largely defined by plants. So habitats and plants
are closely related, so whether that's forest,
grasslands, et cetera. But of course, then we want to
map all the species ideally. That's a very
challenging problem just because there are millions
of them, and a lot of them are very small and can't
be seen, and so on. Of course, there's maps
for now, but also, we might want to understand
historical change. Those baselines of change
are very important. And of course, being
able to project maps into the future, which is a
whole different challenge-- all roads lead to
maps in ecology. HANNAH FRY: OK,
that's interesting. I'm sort of surprised that this
doesn't exist already, though. I mean, can you not just
get this from Google Earth? DREW PURVES: [CHUCKLES] It's
a really interesting question because we got so used to-- and,
of course, it's been amazing, the geographic
information we have through things like Google
Earth and Google Maps, a real human achievement to
bring all that together and make it available. But it's very human-centric
so far, that data. So of course, we've
got roads, and you've got every shopping center and
every post office, everything like that. But actually, it's
much less developed in terms of mapping
the natural world. HANNAH FRY: It's focused more
on people than the environment. DREW PURVES: Yeah, that's right. A lot of the information that
we want about the natural world has never been recorded
like that on paper, necessarily, where all the
different species of trees are or where the
habitats are or where the boundaries between the
rough grassland and wetland are. So we need to actually
create that information for the first time. HANNAH FRY: It sort of
seems a bit bonkers to me that we're in, what, 2025, and
this hasn't been done already. There are attempts at this. They exist. Landsat was developed in the
1970s of taking satellite images and categorizing
different regions. I think there was
some stuff before that for military purposes
using satellite images. But is this just a different
scale to those things? DREW PURVES: It amazes me too. One thing that amazes me is
that the satellites even exist. I mean, that's incredible. It just blows my mind that
actually, for many decades, we've basically had these
floating high-res digital cameras looking down at
the Earth for decades. That's absolutely incredible. It's also incredible the amount
of geographic information we actually do have. There are amazing data
sets or amazing maps of all kinds of things that are
relevant to the environment. And yet, at the same
time, sometimes you come in with the most
basic questions like, where are the forests? HANNAH FRY: Do we not know
where the forests are? DREW PURVES: That's right. And honestly, it
surprises me too. But we don't have gold-standard
accepted global maps for most of the habitats
that we need to understand, including forests. So there is no absolutely
universally accepted gold standard for forest/non-forest. Now, having said that, there
are some pretty good ones nowadays appearing, but there's
still room for improvement. On the other hand,
what we're looking at is even if you had that
to guide decision making, you often need to distinguish
different kinds of forest, for example, the most basic
split-- natural forest from planted forest. And there definitely isn't
a gold-standard accepted map for that. And some of the work
we're doing at the moment is trying to do our best
to provide the best yet available map of that. We call it the Natural
Forests of the World Project. HANNAH FRY: Why are
forest maps useful? What can you use them for? DREW PURVES: Well, forests
are incredibly important, harboring biodiversity
and carbon. And for that reason, there's
a lot of government policy and a lot of international
regulation around forests. And forests are a major focus of
concern for conservation groups. And in all cases, they
need the best maps so they can know where
to protect if they're looking to protect forests,
where to potentially restore forests, where to monitor for
problems like forest diseases and on and on. HANNAH FRY: Can I see it? Have you got it? DREW PURVES: Yes, I have. So firstly, what we produced
is a map for the whole globe at 10-meter resolution. So each 10-meter
pixel is classified. And we give it a probability
that it's natural forest. HANNAH FRY: I should probably
do a little audio description for the people that are
listening rather than watching. We have essentially in a browser
what looks superficially like-- well, exactly like Google Earth. But overlaid on top are
these teal colored pixels that align but not
exactly with what you can see to be trees
from the satellite images. DREW PURVES: That's right. So you can illustrate
that, for instance, in-- and this is why it's
so important but also difficult to tell the difference
between natural forest and planted forest because the
natural forest will typically be much higher in
biodiversity and often carbon if it's somewhat old growth. So this will be an
area that you would tend to want to protect more. And then equally, if
you detect forest loss, then the loss of natural
forest will typically be much more concerning
than, for instance, the loss of planted
forest, many of which are planted in order to
cut them down, like timber. So they can actually
be sustainable. But in this case, in the
Southeast US, for example, there are lots of loblolly
pine plantations, for example. So these are a type
of planted forest which is planted to give timber
very quickly, after about five years. And so you can see there
we've got a mix of areas that we classify as
natural and areas that we classify
as planted forest. And if you zoom in and out,
most of the time-- of course, there are inaccuracies. But we're over 90%
accurate when we test it. So you can see here, as we
fade up our predictions there, then if we look at those
remaining parts, and you go in, you'll find these neat rows. HANNAH FRY: Look at that. DREW PURVES: And that's
telling us it's planted forest. HANNAH FRY: That's
extraordinary. DREW PURVES: So to be able
to do this at scale-- yeah. HANNAH FRY: So, OK, I
notice in this example that it's sort of natural
forest/not natural forest. But I also notice that you've
got a confidence threshold there. DREW PURVES: Yes. HANNAH FRY: So are
you classifying this with a probability
rather than just saying, yes, it's natural forest, not? DREW PURVES: Yes, we are. And it's something we're quite
passionate about, really, because there is
a tendency, if you see a map, that is classified
in a black and white way, to believe that. And even if it's relatively
accurate most of the time, it's really important to be
aware of the inaccuracies. And so that's why we much
prefer to present things as this uncertainty map. Now, of course, one
thing you'd often do is to think, OK, I'll
choose some threshold then which I will use,
for my purposes, to distinguish forests
and non-forest. But depending on
what you're after, you may choose
different thresholds. So if you were really
looking to make sure you're protecting
all of the remaining natural forest in
an area, you would set your confidence threshold--
it's actually setting it low so that you pick all of that up. But of course,
you'll also pick up a whole load of
planted forest, but you don't mind along the way. Whereas on the other hand, if
you had very limited resources, let's say, and you
wanted to verify that the loss of natural
forest had occurred, and you can only afford
to visit certain places, you may put a very
high threshold on it to make sure that you're really
visiting the places where you're most confident about and so on. So we're providing that
to downstream users in this uncertainty form. We're open sourcing
all the maps. We're open sourcing
actually the data and also the new
models we've developed, open sourcing out
to the community. And what it means
for downstream users is that they can get to
their own high-quality, remote-sense maps with much
less compute than before, lower data requirements,
and, all importantly, lower skills
requirements as well. So if we do it right,
something like that can really help to democratize
remote sensing on the outside. HANNAH FRY: In terms of what's
going on behind the scenes, you're using a vision
transformer, right? How does that work? DREW PURVES: So what,
overall, we're doing is bringing in this massive
satellite information. So these are enormous
images for a start, the sheer number of pixels. And then for each
pixel, it's not just RGB like it would be with
an image, but it's often many different bands-- infrared, et cetera, all
these different bands. And those bands are
going up through time. Then you've got
multiple satellites. Each satellite is giving
you records every few days. You have a lot of missing
data from things like clouds. So you need to take this
enormous amount of data and somehow crunch it
all down to pull out the thing that you actually want
to know, like, is it a forest? [CHUCKLING] And the model in the
middle that we're using is this vision
transformer model. HANNAH FRY: Transformers,
people usually associate them with
large language models, like paying attention to
different bits of sentences more important than others. How does it feed in
when it comes to maps? DREW PURVES: That's right. So transformers were mostly
developed to work on language, this idea of these
attention heads and so on, that were then adapted
into vision transformers to do similar things
on images, attending to different parts of images. What we've done here
is then expand that out to a special vision
transformer that's set up to deal with the
challenges of satellite data. So it's actually now a
multimodal, temporal, spatial vision transformer. But it's still a form
of vision transformer. It's a great story about how you
can get this exchange of methods between different areas,
from language modeling into vision and, in this
case, into remote sensing and out there into
environmental policy. HANNAH FRY: So when it's working
out whether it's forest or not forest, it's paying
attention, as it were, to sometimes the infrared
data, sometimes the image, sometimes the topology of
the area, that kind of thing. DREW PURVES: That's right. The transformer architecture
is extremely expressive architecture that gives the
model a huge amount of freedom to choose what it attends
to and how it then combines that information
downstream into its prediction. And that's particularly valuable
in an area like remote sensing where you've got such a wide
variety of modalities coming in and all the data
sets are so huge. And so it's an area
that really benefits from this kind of extra
expressivity and flexibility of the model. HANNAH FRY: But that
expressivity, in the end, comes down to forest/not forest. DREW PURVES: That's
what's funny, right? All of that gets
crunched down into just, in this case, that single map. HANNAH FRY: Well, OK, I'm
just picking up on something that you said in
your answer there-- because you were talking about
how you have these satellite images over time. So then rather than just mapping
where the forests are or aren't, does that mean that you can look
at how the forests are changing? DREW PURVES: Yeah, that's
a very important point. Yeah, indeed. So the interesting thing with
remote sensing and satellite data is, because the satellites
have been up for years, if you can do this
mapping, say you take one year's worth
of satellite data, say for this year,
and we can see where the forests are this
year, we can automatically redo that from the past to
estimate the picture of change. And this is really important. So there's a project
called Global Forest Watch, which Google
has supported before, that does this. And so each year, the
latest map comes out, and you can look at the changes
in forest cover through time. More recently, we've
created this stack of maps that we call
deforestation drivers. And what this is
actually looking at is it's taking each
unit of forest loss and categorizing the
cause of that loss in terms of logging,
agricultural expansion, and so on and so on. But we've applied that
for the last 20 years. So we have 20 years of not
just deforestation but 20 years of the causes of deforestation. So in collaboration with
our colleagues at the World Resources Institute,
at WRI, we've worked up this global map of
the causes of deforestation for each year from the
year 2000 to today. HANNAH FRY: And what do
you find when you do that? DREW PURVES: It's
really interesting to look at these patterns. HANNAH FRY: Go on,
show me, show me. I know you've got it. I know you've got it. I want to see it. DREW PURVES: So
the first thing you can see when you
look across the world is that there's forest
loss everywhere. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. Quite a lot in Northern Europe. DREW PURVES: Yes, for example. So it's so easy to think
that all of these problems are just occurring in the
tropics or in the Global South. HANNAH FRY: Brazil. DREW PURVES: Right, exactly. And the second thing,
though, is the causes of the loss does change
between different regions. So if you have a look at--
zoom in on Brazil here in South America, you can see-- again, you can go right
in and see these-- HANNAH FRY: But lots of
permanent agriculture. DREW PURVES: That's right. Yeah, so this sort of
darker yellow color. And you'll find when
you fade in and out, you'll often find that this
is associated with clearings and so on. So you can see how
that's working. HANNAH FRY: You
can literally see how it picks out the edges
of fields effectively. DREW PURVES: That's right. Because all that fine-grain data
is actually in the satellite signals. There have been previous
maps, but this one is 10 times finer resolution. And that's what really
enables you to pull out these local patterns. And that's where a lot of
the decision-making happens, is at local scales. And so understanding things at
local scale is really important. HANNAH FRY: Putting all of this
together, long into the future, is there a real-time
aspect to this? Could you prevent
illegal logging from happening before it did? DREW PURVES: It's a
really good question because the work that we've
been talking about up to now tends to be taking satellite
data from an extended period to estimate how things
were either right now or looking into the past. HANNAH FRY: Retrospectively. DREW PURVES: Right. Whereas this idea of
rapid, real-time alerts and then also longer-term
future forecasting is some of the real
growth areas for us. There are already actually
existing organizations that are using satellites
to try to pick up deforestation alerts live. So that actually exists. One of the
challenges, though, is that in order to pick up most
of the real deforestation, they've had to use
a methodology that picks up a lot of false
positives at the same time. HANNAH FRY: I see. DREW PURVES: So it's
actually really challenging. So there's the so-called
deforestation alerts. It's an incredible achievement. But at the same time, it feels
like that could be improved. So obviously, if we
could get it down to the point where the alerts
were much more accurate, then it would be much more
easy for people to act on them. HANNAH FRY: I guess this goes
beyond just satellite data then. You have to start working
in other types of data, wouldn't you? DREW PURVES: Yes. Well, I think so. I mean, the interesting
thing is that, you can produce a model of change. And you can train
that on past data, and you can do that
very scientifically, and you do all of your held out
data and your validation and all that clever machine
learning stuff. The problem is,
on the other hand, that the whole thing
around climate change and environmental change is the
future is different to the past. So how can we be confident
that we can reapply that model into the future? HANNAH FRY: This isn't like
predicting the weather a week in advance. The whole underlying
model is different. DREW PURVES: That's right. And when you look at, say,
this process of deforestation that we've been talking about,
that is a human-driven process. And humans can change behavior
very, very quickly in responses to things like
changes in the market. Perhaps the price
of soybeans goes up, and then that encourages
more rapid deforestation. On the other hand, government
regulation and policies or local regulation and
policies and so on-- so traditional machine
learning approaches are going to really struggle
to deal with that because they can only deal with
numbers and they can only deal with the past. And I think that's one
of the reasons why we're really excited
about hybridizing, in a sense, the best of
the scientific tradition of simulation modeling,
with the machine learning, data-driven approach
to forecasting with actually things like the large
language models, like Gemini, which potentially could pick up
on changes in government policy, news, media, perhaps
integrate together things like agricultural
prices and so on to help us at least to slightly
adjust and identify some of the
uncertainty scenarios around those future predictions. HANNAH FRY: If
that's vegetation, though, if that's trees
and hedgerows and shrubs, what about-- I mean, we also care quite
a lot about the creatures that are living inside them. How do you bring that in? DREW PURVES: So
habitats is one thing. But then most species are
not visible from space, and they don't form a
habitat in that sense. Instead, it's all the insects,
the fungi, the birds, et cetera. And so much of our concern
around biodiversity and so much of the action
around conservation is actually around
those species. And so you look
surprised earlier when you said there isn't
an agreed map of forest, and that's true. But that's also true for most
of the species in the world. Now, again, it's really
important to realize everything we're doing in ecology
and biodiversity builds on this huge foundation of
organizations and hard work from the past. So there's an amazing
organization called the IUCN that does provide maps for
140,000 species worldwide. It's amazing. On the other hand, those
maps are very coarse. They're driven by
expert opinion. Those experts, they really know
what they're talking about. But necessarily, they're quite
coarse maps, so 50 kilometer or so cells. And they're only refreshed
about every 10 years. HANNAH FRY: Oh, wow. DREW PURVES: But there's an
obvious potential role there for producing, in
theory, much better maps using the latest in AI and
remote sensing, et cetera. So we're exploring that as well. HANNAH FRY: OK, but then
how do you do it, though? Because you haven't got the
equivalent of satellites in space photographing insects. DREW PURVES: That's right. You could view it as a
sort of prediction problem. What you're saying
is the signals I do have, like the satellite
signals and other input data, can help me produce a sort of
probabilistic estimate of how likely something would be then. And there's probably
always quite a large residual
uncertainty on that. So how do you go
about doing that? Interestingly, at the
absolutely coarsest level, it's the same old, in a sense,
machine learning approach. In other words, you
take your training data. And you take your input
data, like the satellites. And you bring in a special
model, and you fit the model, and you get the output,
and you evaluate it. It's the classic stuff. But in this case, it's
really challenging because the data we're
bringing in mostly is citizen science data. So this is people out
in the field noticing-- HANNAH FRY: Who've
spotted something, yeah. DREW PURVES: That's right. It's an incredible platform
called iNaturalist. It's on your phone now. And if you see something, you
can take a snapshot of it, and then you can upload
that to iNaturalist. And iNaturalist actually
have their own machine learning models so they
can classify that image to species, which is fantastic. And this is now
the main source of these on-the-ground
observations of species globally, is coming
from this amazing phone app called iNaturalist. So that's fantastic. But actually, that data is
still very biased and patchy. HANNAH FRY: Why? DREW PURVES: So, for
example, people typically are close to their home
when they take a picture. And so where people
go, when they go, they'll typically
go on a nice day. And also what they choose
to look at and take pictures of-- so what you'll
find is you'll get lots of pictures of
brightly colored birds close to cities on sunny days. HANNAH FRY: Right, I see. DREW PURVES: And
what you don't get is many pictures of small brown
mushrooms in remote places when it's raining. And although I'm
joking about that, there's actually a much more
serious element to this, too, which is when
you look globally at the distribution of citizen
science data-- there are major areas of the world with
very little-- sub-Saharan Africa, for example. Because actually,
iNaturalist depends on having a certain
amount of leisure time, really, to do these
sorts of activities. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, and also
speed of internet connection and quality of your
smartphone camera. DREW PURVES: That's right. And this is a real irony, then,
for two reasons, in a way. One is from the
fundamental ecology. If you weren't careful,
if you naive about it, you would conclude
that all species like to live near to
middle-class neighborhoods on the edge of cities, right? Because that's where
most of the data is. And then, globally,
there's a real irony there, which is we're lacking data
in many of the places that have the most biodiversity,
in many of the places where the current threats to
biodiversity are the greatest, and where people's livelihoods
depend most on biodiversity, which is just kind of awful. And so the magic, in
a sense, that we're looking for from deep
learning in this space is to see if we can
somehow generalize on this very patchy,
biased data that we do have to ecologically
plausible distributions for all of the species worldwide. And that's a big challenge. And at the moment, I think you
would say the jury is out as to whether it's possible. But we are seeing
some evidence of it. HANNAH FRY: But does the things
that you've learned and that you now "know" in inverted commas
about the vegetation then feed into where you expect
the species to be? Does one help the other? DREW PURVES: Firstly,
that's a really good point, that we know enough
about ecology to know that, actually, things
like climate and elevation and habitat are very strong
predictors of species. So you're absolutely right. We've already talked
about the fact that we can classify habitats
from space down to a fine grain. So that itself we would
expect to be highly predictive of which species are there. And so then bringing in
all this observation data, then we can look at the overlap
between these in the areas where we do have data
and hopefully pick up a general enough
understanding to then be able to reapply that globally. Because there is another
challenge here, which is, you have these long-tail
distributions in ecology all over the place. You have a few common species
and then lots of very rare ones. So we need to do the same
thing across the taxonomic tree of life. Can we learn the key
relationships for the more common species
that are data-rich, enabling us to make the best
predictions we can for species actually fairly poor, data-poor? So if we can learn about-- so, for example, if we
bring in species trait data, we might find out that, in
this part of the tree of life, let's say, it's the
larger-bodied species that tend to live in the
colder environments. And we might be able to discover
laws like that in places where we do have lots
of data like Europe and the US in a
way one day where we can apply that with a certain
level of confidence in areas where we have much less
data, like the Global South. Not that we'd ever
have a blind guess. But what it would really do
is lower the data requirements in those areas. Once we've learned some
of the more general rules, it would mean that actually
a relatively small amount of observational data
may be enough to anchor the distribution
of that species. Such an exciting space. HANNAH FRY: I do wonder about
other types of data here. You're talking about data about
the landscape, about elevation, about the vegetation. But are there other elements
of data like photographs, for instance, that you
can also bring in here? DREW PURVES: Yes, there are. And in general, you
could think of that as this trend towards multimodal
models and multimodal AI. And that particularly
lights up, I think, in the world of ecology
and biodiversity science because you've got such a
wide variety of organisms at different scales, and so
different modalities suit monitoring different
kinds of species. So talking there,
you've got images, let's say, humans take
deliberately with a camera. They're the ones that, say,
iNaturalist specializes in. Often, though, say in the
Serengeti Projects and others, we're talking about
so-called camera traps. These are cameras that are
motion-activated cameras. And a lot of the time, they've
got infrared lights on them. So they're actually taking
infrared images at night. So there are different kinds
of images you can take. You've then got aerial
imagery, let's say, from drones or from planes. You've got the
remote-sensing satellite imagery we're talking about. And then also, you've
got bioacoustics, so-called bioacoustics, is where
you're deploying microphones in the field. That might be familiar to a
lot of people watching this, for example, around
the apps that identify birdsong, Merlin
and eBird and similar. HANNAH FRY: Because
those already exist. I've played with
them a little bit. You're outside. You turn it on. It tells you what birds
you're listening to. DREW PURVES: That's right. HANNAH FRY: But that's
supervised learning, is it, that manages to do that? DREW PURVES: Yeah, that's right. So in all of these
areas, you need what we call a corpus of
labeled data to start with. So you need a picture with
a label along with it. This is a monarch
butterfly, or this is a-- HANNAH FRY: A crow,
crow squawking. DREW PURVES: Yeah, exactly. All of this sort of stuff. And with enough of
that, you can then train a model that generalizes. So that's what's called
supervised learning. That's right. And that's the power of most
of these developments in each of the individual
modalities, whether that's images, remote
sensing, et cetera. Yeah. HANNAH FRY: You've got a
project, though, called Perch, right? Tell me about Perch. DREW PURVES: So Perch is in
this space of bioacoustics. And the idea of deploying
microphones in the field is really attractive because
there's almost always something making a sound. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. DREW PURVES: And
it's incredibly rich, the information we can
extract from sound, actually. And you can leave the
microphones out for days on end to record all that data. And of course, sound is not
necessarily just species, but it can be behavior. We might be able to distinguish
juveniles from adults. You might be able to
pick up warning signals. Insects make sounds. Reptiles make sounds. Birds make sounds. Mammals make sounds. And you pick all of that up. So you don't have to have line
of sight to the organism either. It can work at night. So it's an incredibly promising
technology for pulling out data from the field. HANNAH FRY: But if it's already
been done, if you do already have these apps that can tell
if you're listening to a crow, then what else is there to do? DREW PURVES: Perch is taking
a slightly different approach. It's a foundational
model for natural sound. And what that does is, like
other foundational models, it's not out of the
box, it's not just providing you with the
ability to identify lots of different
birds, for example. It does do that. But what it's really
designed to do is to allow people to rapidly
create their own detectors for things that haven't been
in the detector already. So for instance,
if you're working on a particularly rare species,
it won't be in one of these apps already. It's too rare. They haven't put it in there. But you might also be working
on a more familiar species, but you'd like to
divide the juveniles from the adults or a local
accent, for instance, of a birdsong. HANNAH FRY: Because birds
do have accents, do they? DREW PURVES: Oh, [LAUGHS]
well, yeah, yeah. I think that's right. They certainly have local
variants on their songs. So you'd be able to track
these sorts of things. HANNAH FRY: So how does
bioacoustic modeling actually work then? DREW PURVES: So
the way Perch works is it brings in these
audio data files, and they're huge, so
lots and lots of data. And it crunches all that down
into a much smaller amount of data, which is this
so-called embedding. And then that
embedding, then, can have all these downstream
uses, the most obvious of which is developing new detectors. So you can think of it as
a big kind of process that takes huge amounts of data
in, and it crunches it down to a small amount
of data that retains all of the salient
signal that you'd want for understanding ecology
and identifying species and has thrown away as much
of the noise as possible. However, there's
also, for example, at least one other important use
case, which is called Search. So if you take different audio
clips and crunch them down here, you can also then easily go
and find similar audio clips. Because often, one
of the main barriers is, let's say, you're looking
to monitor some rare species, and you put the
microphone out for hours. Well, where's the chirp? You've got to
listen to the thing. But if you can just find one
or two here, then you can say, right now, I can
find the similar ones because I'm looking for the ones
that have got a similar Perch embedding to these. And even a third one, which I
don't mind speculating around, an idea I've been talking
with a lot of colleagues about is, if you're looking
to do something verify ecological restoration in
the field, you can imagine, if I put microphones in a good
place, like a nature reserve and in some other
place like my garden-- I've been rewilding my garden-- then through time, you can see
whether the Perch embeddings, say, in my garden become more
similar to the local nature reserve. HANNAH FRY: OK, so wait, wait,
let me understand that then. So let's say you're
doing a project where you want to increase the
occupancy of a particular type of species. You can put a
microphone in there and work out whether
your intervention is increasing the population
of whatever it might be. DREW PURVES: That's
absolutely right. So there's at least two
scenarios to think about. One is, yes, if
you're focused on one or more particular
species, then Perch would be massively helpful
because you could develop detectors for those species. And we also know it's not
just the species, yes/no, but the frequency of
the calls and even some of the variation in the calls. So in some cases, you can tell
individuals apart, by the way, here. So we can say, is it one
bird singing all day long, or do we have four or
five birds singing? And Perch can even
help with that. HANNAH FRY: That specific bird-- DREW PURVES: Specific bird. HANNAH FRY: Wow. OK. DREW PURVES: Exactly, yeah. It's really important to know
I've got lots of blackbird song, but is it 1 blackbird,
or is it 10 blackbirds? So in this way, you can use
bioacoustics in combination with Perch to
increase your ability to measure not just the
presence or absence of species but the abundance and then the
change in that through time. It's getting more abundant. So that's one scenario,
very species-focused view. And this is how most people
currently approach biodiversity and ecosystems, is
through this species lens, which is very important. But it's also
interesting to me-- and I'm sharing an
idea here that I've shared with lots of
colleagues, which is in some areas of the world
where you've got a really high biodiversity and much less data,
much less understanding, what you could do instead is
almost view the Perch distillation as a distillation
of the audio ecology of a place, even if you can't
identify all the species. And then if I pick a good place,
like a local nature reserve, and I pick a place that
I'm looking to restore, then I could just
say on aggregate, are the Perch embeddings
becoming more similar? And I may not know which
species are involved. I've got all these things going,
pops and clicks and whistles and et cetera. Because what Perch,
in a sense, is a kind of deep learning
numerical answer to the question, what does the
nature sound like in this place? And so if, through
time, I could say my place is becoming,
in terms of that sound, more similar to some
reference place-- HANNAH FRY: Well, let
me ask though, because-- OK, so Perch, given the name,
sounds quite a lot like it's mainly focused on birds. But can you put this
into other environments? What about underwater? Does it work there? DREW PURVES: So you're right. Perch started by just
classifying very large numbers of bird species. But amazingly, it turned
out that then when they tried it underwater
on these hydrophones, it seems to work really well. HANNAH FRY: What,
the same model? DREW PURVES: Exactly the same
model worked really well. HANNAH FRY: What? DREW PURVES: And
I think what this teaches us is that
there's something about natural sound, the
way that that's evolved, that actually has-- now, of course, it
won't be perfect, but it has a surprisingly
high degree of transfer into underwater. There's this whole area
of acoustic ecology, and we know that--
well, we think there's evidence for the fact
that species have evolved away from each other in terms of
their use of the audio spectrum because it's easy to forget that
most of the sound you're picking up in bioacoustics
is deliberately produced by organisms. It's communication. That's what's amazing. They're communicating
with each other. And just like us, they need to
think about the spectral bands. HANNAH FRY: They
want to be heard. DREW PURVES: Yeah,
audio spectral bands. So they're differentiated. So it looks like-- HANNAH FRY: So some
use low sounds, some use high sounds
because you want to make sure that you're
communication is successful. DREW PURVES: Yes, exactly. So yeah, overall high and low. And then you think about
the temporal thing. Is it like da, da, da, da,
da, or is it ou, ou, ou thing? So you can imagine
that this is somehow evolved as an interaction
not just within species, communication, but
between all the species. They've all responded
to each other somehow and settled down on
these different patterns. HANNAH FRY: And what
do you find when you put microphones underwater? What do you get from
these hydrophones? DREW PURVES: So we've
cued up actually a couple of sound recordings
from coral reefs that I'd like to listen to. HANNAH FRY: OK, go for it. [CRACKLING, GURGLING] I mean, oh, some grumbles
going on, some squeaks. Quite crackly as well. DREW PURVES: Yeah, and
then here's another one. [CRACKLING] HANNAH FRY: Much quieter. No grumbles. I mean, what does that say
about this coral reef, though? DREW PURVES: So
maybe now it won't surprise you to hear that
the first one of those was a much healthier coral
reef than the second. HANNAH FRY: Oh, really? DREW PURVES: So that
diversity and richness of ecological sound,
animal communication, is a strong indication of a
healthy ecosystem, you see? So even as humans, we
can hear that difference. HANNAH FRY: Wow. So you really have that
richness of understanding the environment itself
just from the audio signal. DREW PURVES: That's right. And that's an illustration of
how even just that overall-- if we can embed that
overall signal in a way, that can just give us
a general indication of the health of ecosystems. Of course, with more
specific species data, we can actually start to
tease out individual species, so if we're
particularly concerned with an endangered species,
maybe even invasive species. And we can pull out seasonal
and daily temporal patterns in animal behavior. And we can start to understand
geographic differences in where species live, all just
by dropping these microphones, in this case, into the ocean. HANNAH FRY: But this is an
explosion in possibilities. Because if, previously, you
stuck a microphone underwater, you'd have to
listen through hours and hours and hours of tapes
and have no real way of-- I mean, it's basically
the human brain trying to pick up on patterns. But now, if you can single out
not just individual species but individual
voices, as it were, from particular individuals,
that's gigantic, right? Gigantic potential. DREW PURVES: Yeah,
it's absolutely huge. That's why so many of us
are so excited by the power of bioacoustics combined with
deep learning in this way and especially with this
foundational approach to bioacoustics that
Perch is bringing. And it has at least
two advantages that you've hinted at there. One is that it can just
massively accelerate what humans could do. So you could take a problem
that humans could do. It's just that
you'd have to have hundreds of people listening
to thousands of hours of audio. So it was very,
very inefficient. But you're right. There are also areas
where you're going go beyond human capabilities. Humans are not
necessarily all that good at parsing
out natural sounds or identifying
species from sound. It's quite hard skill to learn. And there may be
cases like pulling out different individuals might
eventually be even too subtle for humans to do. HANNAH FRY: Staying
underwater for a moment, there are some species-- I'm thinking about
whales and dolphins here-- where there
is some evidence that their communication
is sophisticated, right? Can you use these
ideas for that? Can you-- I don't know--
learn to speak dolphin? DREW PURVES: [CHUCKLES]
I like to think that we will be able to talk to
animals using AI at some point and that these embedding
foundational modeling approaches like Perch will be
really important in that. But, of course, you'd need
some other elements there. Interestingly, some
colleagues of mine have been involved in producing
this thing called DolphinGemma, which is a large
language model that's been adapted to be suitable
for beginning to decode dolphin communication. It takes the sounds, separates
them out, tokenizes them, and basically brings it into
the world of large language modeling. So that's an example
of it's early days, but that's an example
of AI actively being used to study animal
communication at a level that we really
couldn't do before. HANNAH FRY: The
thing is, I can see the potential for this in
terms of scientific interest. But I do wonder whether-- let's say we get
to a point where you can understand what
dolphins are saying, communicate with the higher
animals on the planet. Does it change how
we view ourselves and our place in the world? DREW PURVES: I think yeah. I think it absolutely
has that potential. Most of the work we're doing
at the moment, as I mentioned, is filling known
information gaps in known processes, et cetera. But sometimes you think
that the real change can come, in the long run,
from almost these moments of awakening where people
almost overnight can change their relationship with nature. And I think we've seen at least
two examples in the past anyway. One was the first picture
of the Earth on the moon. And I guess historians
can debate this, but they often trace some
of the more recent increases in the modern conservation
movement to that picture when people looked at the
Earth for the first time and realized there was just
one in this dark universe and that all of us shared
it together, et cetera. Another one is
actually whale song, and this is just listening
to whales, even if we can't tell what they're saying. That really changed the way
people thought about whales. So the idea of being able
to do that for more species with things like
Perch but then being able to decode that to say
what they're actually saying and maybe one day even have
some kind of conversation. And if AI can help
to empower that, that might, in the long run, be
the most powerful role of AI. HANNAH FRY: Well, OK, we've
covered a lot of ground in this episode. So maybe I'll finish by
asking about the future. How will AI change
the kinds of questions that ecologists can ask? DREW PURVES: So I
think up to now, as we've discussed, amazing
progress in our ability to monitor and extract
data from the field and from the literature. Amazing progress, I
think, in mapping and geo. It's only going to get better. I think the couple of
the future directions to explore-- one is, what if we
really could confidently predict the future of ecosystems? All the plants, all the
insects, everything, the soil, the soil organisms,
the fungi under a range of different scenarios. If I do this, this
is what the ecosystem will look like in 10 years. If I do this, this will happen. And also in a way that took into
account future climate change, et cetera. So these future-proof, robust,
conditional predictions of the future of ecosystems
down at the fine grain. If we could do that,
of course, that could unlock an entirely
different sort of relationship between us and nature. We could use that
simulation ability to then be able to find all
the optimal ways that we should behave, identify the key
trade-offs-- which species to plan, build new kinds of
regenerative agriculture systems and agroforestry
with mixed species. We've also got
rewilding, and we're also bringing the soil carbon
back, and it's all robust to climate change. So if we could do
that, then every person that's affecting nature or
taking a decision that they think affects nature
would be fully informed as to the future
consequences of those actions. And that feels, to me,
like an amazing potential. Of course, it would
depend on values as well, but I would hope that,
on average, most people would use that ability
to do good for nature. HANNAH FRY: Amazing. Drew, thank you so
much for joining me. DREW PURVES: Oh,
thanks for the invite. It's been great, really. HANNAH FRY: I think it can be
tempting to imagine that ecology is a bit of a niche
application for AI, a nice, worthy project
that sits behind all of the big, flashy advances
like video generation and drug discovery. But in reality, this is just
a few steps behind the others. They're still at the data
gathering and data assimilation phase of the process,
but the roadmap here is just as ambitious. And in the long run, I think
there is real potential here not to just use AI to
conserve what we have already but to completely
change our relationship with the natural world itself. You have been listening
to "Google DeepMind-- The Podcast" with me,
Professor Hannah Fry. If you enjoyed
this episode, then do subscribe to
our YouTube channel or leave a review on your
favorite podcast platform. And of course, we have
plenty more episodes on a whole range of topics to
come, so do check those out. See you next time. [MUSIC PLAYING]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: XpIMuCeEtSk (https://youtu.be/XpIMuCeEtSk) ===


HANNAH FRY: So, I mean, you
literally say, make me a drug for X disease, off it goes,
says, here's the molecule you need. MAX JADERBERG: Yeah, yeah. HANNAH FRY: Do you
think that's possible? MAX JADERBERG: It's possible. I think, it's possible. I think everything is
pointing in that direction. REBECCA HALL: Well,
I've seen first hand is what can come out of this
explosion of two fields coming together. I think when you've got
experts in two fields, and they come together, and
they're really curious, deeply curious about the
other field, and they want to apply their thing
to your field, that's when you get this kind of magic. MAX JADERBERG: In
five-years' time, doing drug design
without AI will be like doing any sort
of science without maths. And to be honest, I think
the whole of science will be like, this. It's like if you're not
using AI, what are you doing? HANNAH FRY: Welcome back to
"Google DeepMind," the Podcast. My name is Professor Hannah Fry. Now, you'll already know
that Demis Hassabis and John Jumper won the
Nobel Prize in 2024 for their work applying
artificial intelligence to protein folding. Now, everything comes
down to proteins in the human body-- how they
fold, how they function. But not very long
ago, working out the structure for
one single protein could take months,
or even years. And then, with the release
of AlphaFold2, the algorithms developed at Google
DeepMind, the entire field has been completely
revolutionized. More recently, AlphaFold3
can predict the structure of all of life's molecules
with unprecedented accuracy, which turns out to be absolutely
pivotal for drug design. These developments
have paved the way for a new company spun
out of Google DeepMind. It's called, Isomorphic Labs,
to represent the synergy between biology and AI. And joining me today are two
of its most notable hires. Rebecca Paul is Head of
Medicinal Drug Design with years of experience in
the process of discovering new drugs. And Max Jaderberg is
its Chief AI Officer. Anyone who's been following this
podcast will remember Max from his earlier days at DeepMind,
teaching agents to play "Capture the Flag" and "StarCraft." And today, he thinks
that agents will be instrumental in the
future of drug discovery. Max, Rebecca, thank you
so much for joining me. REBECCA HALL: Thank
you for having us. MAX JADERBERG: Yes, a
pleasure to be here. HANNAH FRY: Well, it's a delight
to have you because there's some big stuff happening. I know a lot has been
made of this claim that AI is going to be
able to solve all diseases. Is that realistic, Max? MAX JADERBERG: This isn't
going to happen overnight. Let's be clear. But I think the exciting
thing is that we can actually see there's, perhaps,
a practical path towards that point. And it's very different
at this point in time than it has ever
been, because we've got these AI
machine-learning models that understand the biological
world and the biochemical world in a completely different manner
than what we've had before. And so that's opening
up tons of disease space that we didn't think
was tractable before. And that's just today. So as we start to develop these
models further and further, it's really just
the very beginning. HANNAH FRY: Does that mean-- I mean, every disease is
on the table here, Becky. REBECCA HALL: So I would
say nothing is off the table at this point. And the journey for me
here has been a big one. I used to be much more
conservative in this space. But having come to Isomorphic
Labs, seeing the kind of models that we have, things that
I thought in the past we would never be
able to predict and now being able to do
it every day within five, ten seconds, it's completely
shifted my mindset. So now, I would put
nothing off the table. HANNAH FRY: And is it
just in drug design, or is AI going to affect
clinical trials, as well? MAX JADERBERG: I think over
time, yes, it will definitely affect clinical trials. We're focusing really heavily
on the drug-design phase at the moment. But you can imagine
a world where, as you start to get better and
better at drug design, actually, more and more of
the bottleneck comes onto the clinical-development
side of things. And so we really need to
rethink how we do that. I don't think we've
really changed the way we do
clinical development for a long, long time. It's still very slow. There's, of course, a lot of
regulation for good reason. But as we understand
more and more about how these molecules work, the
true mechanisms of disease, how these molecules
also interact with the rest of the body
and affect everything like toxicity
inside of us, we can start to rethink even how we do
those clinical-trial designs, how we first go into
people and start measuring the efficacy
of these molecules. So that's not right now
for us at Isomorphic, but it's very much
in our future. HANNAH FRY: What is
the big idea then? What's the big
ambition of Isomorphic? MAX JADERBERG: It
really is stepping towards that
solvable-disease space. And so this is really-- before
you go into clinical trial, before you even start
testing out on people, you need something to test. You need to create a
molecule and a drug. And a drug, what is that? It's something that
goes in and modulates some function of the body,
some function in a cell. And so, really, the key first
phase of Isomorphic Labs is, how can we create this
AI drug-design engine that can take pretty much
any disease, any protein target that's implicated
in that disease, and work out how to create
a molecule that will go in and start modulating the
function of these proteins, the function of cells, and
then change the disease state for positive patients. HANNAH FRY: The
thing is, I mean, diseases have been
cured in the past. We have come up with drug
solutions that, effectively, make them a remnant of history. Why are some diseases
so much more difficult than others to solve or cure? REBECCA HALL: So, for example,
some types of cancers, you can develop a
treatment to cure them because, for example, those
cancers might be quite stable. So there's maybe one mutation
that drives that cancer. And then you treat that. you
treat with that molecule that hits that particular
mutation, and that can be curative in that disease. But if you had a cancer which
was continually evolving and the cells were evolving to
overcome the drug that you're treating with, then you need to
be continually evolving the drug that you're treating them with. So that would be then a much
more difficult disease to solve. HANNAH FRY: And,
I guess, are there others where there's just a
real gap in our understanding of what's going on in the body. REBECCA HALL: Yeah, there's
also that massive gap in understanding, what's
actually driving this disease? Is it multiple things together? We don't have all the
answers yet to biology. Biology is so, so complex. One of the fundamental
things we need to do is find out what
biology is actually driving disease before we can
then develop a small molecule, or some kind of chemistry
that then will modulate the right biology
to actually make an improvement in the
symptoms, or a disease modification to that disease. HANNAH FRY: Is that what
you're trying to do then? So actually,
something like cancer, for instance, once you get
down to the level of molecules and proteins, it's that
something's gone wrong at that level,
which then escalates into the scale of
the human body. REBECCA HALL: Absolutely. So you've got
little-- you can think of proteins as mini factories
or engines inside your cell. And those, they have a
function, they do something. So if you have a mutation,
or something that changes about that
protein, that means, for example, it's
always switched on, where, in a normal cell, it
might be going on and off, or maybe it's mostly off. But now in a cancer cell,
something's happened, it's always on. It's going to just
continually drive a signal. And that signal could
be grow, proliferate. And that will then drive
the formation of a tumor. HANNAH FRY: And so
your target then, you know that there's something
going on with that protein so you're targeting then
that protein with a molecule of some medicine or drug. REBECCA HALL: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: OK. REBECCA HALL: So
you want to-- if you think of that little
factory working away, you want to design a
perfect-shaped wrench that you can throw into
that little set of gears to stop it working so
that then it's going to stop driving that signal. HANNAH FRY: Does it
come down to shape? REBECCA HALL: Very important. You can think of proteins as
having pockets, or grooves, or crevices, and you
really need to design a molecule that perfectly
fits inside that groove. HANNAH FRY: To block it. REBECCA HALL: To block it. HANNAH FRY: Oh, really? REBECCA HALL: It's
literally like that, yes. HANNAH FRY: And is
that true of all drugs that already exist, I mean,
like paracetamol, for example. Is that what it's doing? REBECCA HALL: Yeah. So paracetamol is a small
molecule, binds to its protein targets, blocks the function,
and in the case of paracetamol, or painkillers, it's preventing
you from experiencing pain. So, yes. HANNAH FRY: So in
some ways then, you're playing LEGO at
the molecular level. REBECCA HALL: Exactly,
yes, and we love it. HANNAH FRY: Why would that
be a good situation for AI? What makes this a well-suited
problem for AI, Max? MAX JADERBERG: It's actually
such a perfect application of AI and machine-learning, this whole
playing LEGO with molecules. We've seen over the last five,
six, seven years the rise of models like AlphaFold. We had AlphaFold1,
AlphaFold2, understanding the structure of proteins. Before AlphaFold2, no one could
really understand the structure without going into a lab
and experimentally resolving these structures. And that can take months,
it can take years. Sometimes, it's not even
possible for some proteins. Obviously, AlphaFold2-- Nobel
Prize winning breakthrough in chemistry. And now, we've taken that
even further with things like AlphaFold3,
where now we can understand the structure of
proteins with small molecules. And these small molecules
are the little LEGO blocks that come in, and
we use those drugs to inhibit the
function of a protein, or change the
function of a protein. And the reason why this
is such a good domain for machine-learning is that
what we're trying to do, in essence, is predict the 3D
coordinates of this biomolecular system. And this fits
really, really nicely into some of our classic,
supervised learning, modeling domains. It fits really, really nicely
into our diffusion modeling frameworks that have
been so, so successful for things like image
generation, or video generation. HANNAH FRY: And in
terms of being suited for the supervised learning
stuff that had already gone before, is that because
there is some metric of success here, some way of being
right, inverted commas. MAX JADERBERG: There's a
very clear metric of success here, which is super helpful
for developing these models and for research. And the reason is,
over the last 50 years, people have been experimentally
resolving these protein structures-- structure of these
proteins with small molecules, with DNA, with RNA. They've been doing
it by hand in a lab, and then depositing the
results into a big database called The Protein
Data Bank, PDB. And this gives a really
rich source of information. It's a couple of
100,000 3D structures. And each structure has
thousands of atom coordinates, so there's a really high
information density. And that's a perfect scenario
for supervised learning. Now, this isn't web-scale data,
so it's not the scale of data that we might be used to for
training large-language models. But incredibly, we've worked
out ways to design these neural-network architectures and
these training regimes so that we can only train on a
couple of 100,000 structures and excitingly get what
we call generalization. We see that these
models can generalize. They can be applied to
completely new proteins, completely new molecules
that people have never seen before in history. And, of course, that's essential
if you're doing drug design. Drug design is about creating
completely new molecules that we've never seen
before in nature, even, to actually modulate
these functions. HANNAH FRY: But then, also,
I guess, the possibilities of molecules that
you could design-- I mean, it's-- well, a
very big number, I imagine. MAX JADERBERG: Yeah,
that number is huge. People throw around numbers
like 10 to the power of 60 is the possible number
of drug-like molecules out there in the universe. So it's a huge
combinatorial problem. And that's also a really
exciting spot for AI. We can create great
predictive models of how these molecules fit
together, even how strongly they fit, or the properties of them. But with the design space
of 10 to the power of 60, we're reaching the level
of atoms in the universe. So even if you had the
perfect predictive models of how this fits
together, you wouldn't be able to exhaustively
search that massive space. So what do you do? OK, maybe you subsample
that space and you search through some large number-- a million, 10 million,
a billion, 10 billion. HANNAH FRY: It's nothing, is it? MAX JADERBERG: Even
though you're not-- yeah. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. MAX JADERBERG: You're not
even scratching the surface. And that's where we can then
fall to new types of models, things like generative models,
search methods, agents, which instead of
exhaustively searching the full molecular space,
we can really smartly start to explore across
that whole space but without exhaustively
searching the whole space. HANNAH FRY: OK, tell me
about AlphaFold3 then. In terms of designing
drugs, what does it actually allow you to do? REBECCA HALL: So as
a medicinal chemist, we always want to be able to
visualize how our molecule binds to our protein, so how our
LEGO block fits into the bigger picture of LEGO blocks. HANNAH FRY: Thank you for
going with me on this analogy, I appreciate it. REBECCA HALL: The LEGO analogy. The reason we need to
have that visualization is because when
you're optimizing a small molecule
binding to a protein, you need to know which
vector to explore. You need to have some
kind of target in mind. I'm going to explore
that part of the pocket, or I'm going to that part
of the protein structure. That looks like a
good place to go. And so for years,
we've invested, as a scientific community,
in ways to do that. So X-ray crystallography is
an experimental technique where you can actually
go into a lab, and you can spend a lot of time
crystallizing your protein. You fire X-rays at it once it's
bound to your small molecule. And then you can actually
visualize, atom by atom, how your small molecule is
binding to your protein. Now we can do that with
AlphaFold3, and the latest iterations of that
model, into seconds. And so something that
might have taken me months when I was doing my PhD
or in my early-stage research, I'm now just seeing on
my screen all the time. And so you can just iterate
and iterate in silico until you get to something that
actually looks really quite promising. And then you take
that into the lab. HANNAH FRY: So which way
around does it work then? Are you saying, OK, I think
something like this, this, this, and this would work. Let's try it out
and see if it fits. Or is it the other way around? Are these models
telling you this is something that might fit? REBECCA HALL: So in
the way that we've constructed our drug-design
platform at ISO, you can do both. So I can come in as an
experienced medicinal chemist and I can say, I think this. And I can test it then and
there, a couple of minutes, and get that feedback. But you can also take
the opposite approach. I don't actually
know what's going to work here so I'm going to
apply the generative models we have. I'm going to do some, what
we call, virtual screening. So I'm going to take an
area of chemical space that's commercially available. I'm going to screen
that against my protein. And I'm going to get
the models to tell me what's best from that subset. HANNAH FRY: Can I see what it
looks like when you're actually designing something? REBECCA HALL: So
the small molecule is fitting into this little
groove in the protein, and it's forming interactions
with the protein. So the dotted lines
you can see, those are interactions between that
small molecule and the protein itself. And as medicinal
chemists, we want to optimize, or increase, the
number of those interactions, because that's
increasing the strength of that relationship between the
small molecule and the protein. HANNAH FRY: Let me describe what
I've got, what's going on here. So you've got-- so the
curly stuff is a protein. REBECCA HALL: Yes,
that's the protein, yeah. HANNAH FRY: And it's folded. So you've got the
three-dimensional structure. REBECCA HALL: Indeed. HANNAH FRY: And then
over here, you've got-- I mean, this looks
like the kind of thing you would do in GCSE chemistry,
one of those kind of diagrams. REBECCA HALL: Exactly. This is a small molecule. HANNAH FRY: This is sort of
plugged into the protein? REBECCA HALL: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: Wow. I mean, it really is
like 3D jigsaws then. I mean, that's-- REBECCA HALL: 3D, yes, exactly. HANNAH FRY: --what you're doing. REBECCA HALL: That's
what we're doing, yeah. HANNAH FRY: That
crevice could be the thing that's
making you feel pain, or the thing that's
causing tumor growth, or whatever it might be. REBECCA HALL: Yeah,
causing your disease, yeah. HANNAH FRY: Amazing. So then you're trying different
versions of this molecule to see if you can get
the best possible fit in that little crevice. REBECCA HALL: Exactly. And I can quickly show you. So we have lots of different
functionality on the platform that you can try. And this is my favorite,
which Max always tells me off about because I can
use my expertise as a medicinal chemist. And I can say, OK, I want to
make some specific changes to this molecule. HANNAH FRY: Oh, wow. REBECCA HALL: I can actually
view what I'm doing in 3D. So this is now going to fetch
that structure prediction. And I can actually make
modifications to this molecule. And I can see the predicted
structure in real-time. HANNAH FRY: And normally,
this would have taken-- I mean, before AI-- a long time. REBECCA HALL: I mean, if
you're going to go into a lab and experimentally
determine this, it could be anywhere
from weeks to years. HANNAH FRY: Why do you
tell her off for this one? MAX JADERBERG: I guess
you're referring to the fact that, over time, we want to do
more and more from the model itself. The really exciting frontier,
from my perspective, is there's going to be lots of
scenarios where Becky will want to go in and make
those changes by hand and test out very specific
hypotheses that she has on why this molecule works
and how we can make it better. And then what we
also should be doing is asking our generative
models, and our agents to say, hey, this is how I'm
thinking about the problem. These are my design constraints. I want a molecule that does X,
Y, Z and has these properties, and looks like this, and
maybe interacts over there, and makes this sort of shape. What can you come up with? And maybe set this running,
go away, have a coffee, go home, come in
the next morning and see what the agent
has come up with. HANNAH FRY: I guess
with all of the projects that you've applied AI
to generally in DeepMind, it has gone through that
process of starting off with human expertise,
and then slowly building in more knowledge and expertise
within the model itself. MAX JADERBERG: Yeah. And I think there are a lot
of analogies to that moment that we had with
large-language models where we've had large-language
models for a long time, and I've been working
on them 10 years ago. But they were rubbish. And they were spitting stuff
out that looked like language. It kind of made sense. But it also didn't make
sense and you had to correct, and it clearly wasn't human. And then, they got steadily
better little by little. And suddenly, they just passed
through this human-perceptible threshold where you can't
really tell whether this is generated by a human or not. And we're getting
to the same point with our molecule-design
models where, maybe five years
ago in this field, you had generative
models of molecules, and they'd spit stuff out. But you'd give them to
a chemist like Becky, and she would probably tear her
hair out, like this is rubbish. HANNAH FRY: Well, did you
see those kinds of models? REBECCA HALL: Yes, I did,
yeah, because I actually worked at an AI company prior
to joining Isomorphic Lab, so I've seen that
progression in that journey. HANNAH FRY: And tell me, what
kind of stuff did they spit out? REBECCA HALL: For
a long time, it would just be nonsense because
you're obviously giving the model an uphill function. You want it to get to something
that's going to bind really potently, for example. But to do that, maybe it just
makes the molecule massive. HANNAH FRY: Oh. REBECCA HALL: But
then, well, it's not going to actually be
absorbed through the intestine into the bloodstream because-- HANNAH FRY: Because
you've got more to think about than just
the molecule itself. REBECCA HALL: Exactly, yeah. So there's a lot to
piece together here. HANNAH FRY: Oh,
that's interesting. So AI, if we go back
to our LEGO analogy, it was just like
building a massive LEGO wall all around the protein. REBECCA HALL: Yes, yeah. HANNAH FRY: I see. OK. REBECCA HALL: Essentially. HANNAH FRY: And now, this is-- have you seen that moment,
that tip over with the language models that Max describes? REBECCA HALL: Yeah, I think-- I've been so surprised
by the quality of some of the molecules that
come out of the generative AI. And sometimes the
molecules that come out, you think, oh, I would
have-- why wouldn't I have come up with that? That's really amazing. And, of course, you
don't have to go and make that exact molecule,
but you could then use that as inspiration
to do something else. So-- HANNAH FRY: So it's
working with you. REBECCA HALL: Yeah,
you can work together. I mean, I'm guessing at
some point in the future, it will be so good
that you'll be like, oh, there's nothing
I would change. MAX JADERBERG: We've had some
really fun moments where, for example, we've had our
models submitting molecules blind, and then other
people looking at them and seeing, OK, what are we
going to send off for testing? HANNAH FRY: Oh, really? MAX JADERBERG: And people look-- HANNAH FRY: Like a chewing
test for molecules. MAX JADERBERG: Exactly. And people looking
at these molecules, very, very experienced
medicinal chemists, saying, wow, there's a lot of experience
behind the design of this molecule, and
actually not knowing that this was designed by
a generative model instead. HANNAH FRY: But OK, let me
understand this, though, because using the analogy
of large-language models, it makes sense there that
you have these tokens, you break words down
into little bytes, and then you can
build up from there. How do you do it in a way
that makes sense chemically? I mean, you're not just
taking atoms, are you? MAX JADERBERG: We are,
actually, just taking atoms. For bigger things like proteins,
we chunk up into amino acids, so one token per amino acids. So instead of characters of a
sentence, letters of a sentence, we have amino
acids of a protein. And then for the small
molecule, we chunk it up just into its individual atoms. And so we have a
sequence of amino acids, and a sequence of atoms,
and we put them together and that's one big sequence. And then we feed it
through a structured model like AlphaFold3. And AlphaFold3
uses transformers. But unlike in
large-language models where transformers are used
on one-dimensional sequences of characters, of
letters, here, we use what we call a
pair former, which operates on a two-dimensional
interaction grid of all of these molecular elements. So we can consider every single
possible interaction that could occur between every
amino asset, every part of the protein, and every
atom of the small molecule, and everything in between. And then this creates
neural-network features, which condition a diffusion model. And diffusion models
are generative models. We probably know them from these
amazing image-generative models, video-generative models. And instead of generating the
pixels of an image, instead, our diffusion models are
generating the 3D-atom coordinates of this whole
biomolecular system. HANNAH FRY: And it just
so happens they work. MAX JADERBERG: And
it just so happens this works phenomenally well. You get these amazing structure
predictions that-- when you go to the lab and
experimentally resolve these structures-- and
we do this on occasion. Something amazing is predicted,
like a completely new pocket or a new mechanism of action. We go into the lab. We want to check
that, are these models grounded at all in reality? And what comes
back is, yeah, this is within 1 angstrom, the
tiniest unit of distance accurate, which is phenomenal. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. But then through that
training process, does it manage to extract a
conceptual understanding of how chemistry works? MAX JADERBERG: It's really
hard to think about concepts in this atom space. But I do believe that there's
some notion of reasoning in molecular and atomistic space
that these models are doing because of the amount
of generalization we're getting out of them. And if you think about what
these generative models are trained to do, they're trained
to fit to the data distribution that you give them. And so in our case, we
give them all the molecules that might exist naturally, that
people have worked out before, that people have
designed before. When your model gets
better and better, you get things that look like
they could have been designed before, which, then
it starts to be imperceptible from
a human design. HANNAH FRY: What do you think? REBECCA HALL: You can certainly
see that in the molecules that we get back. They look like molecules
that myself or someone else might have designed. You do sometimes get
something crazy, though. HANNAH FRY: Do you? REBECCA HALL: Yeah, we
still do, but we have ways of filtering that out now. HANNAH FRY: Is it like a
hallucination, in a way? REBECCA HALL: Yeah. The model is really confident,
but it's confidently wrong. HANNAH FRY: Confidently wrong. OK. What does it look like
when it hallucinates? REBECCA HALL: So we
get back a number of structures that
the models believe are good solutions
for this problem, for this particular
protein pocket. And then our job is to go, OK,
well, which of those molecules should we actually select
to put into synthesis? And so this is never a
model on its own in a silo. This is a model working
really closely with an expert to say, OK, of the
solutions you've given me, where's the gold in that? Where are the molecules
that are actually going to push this project forward? And we'll put them into what we
call chemical synthesis, where we make them and we test them. But sometimes we
get back results which, actually,
the compound doesn't bind to the protein at all. So here, the
models, essentially, completely
hallucinated a solution and so convincingly that
actually, an expert looks at it and goes, yeah, that looks
a really good solution. The confidence metrics
would suggest the same. So essentially, it
is a hallucination. And I think we find it a really
fascinating research question to say, OK, how do we
find the really good stuff that the model is giving us? HANNAH FRY: Beyond this
3D jigsaw or LEGOs-- we're mixing our metaphors. Is it just about structure? Is it just about
finding something that will plug a
particular hole? Or are there other
considerations that you have to have, as well,
when it comes to drug design? REBECCA HALL: There are so
many other considerations. That's what makes this problem
just incredibly complex. So it's even beyond the shape. You can have something that
maybe fits in the shape, but it's got to bind really
strongly to that protein. And that prediction of binding
affinity, as we call it, is actually different. You can't really gauge that
from just looking at a picture. The picture is a
helpful guide, but you need to be able to predict that
binding affinity separately. And then all of those
things together, that's just how your molecule
binds to your protein. You've also got to think about,
is that molecule going to bind to any of the other 20,000
proteins in the body? Because if the answer is yes,
that could drive a side effect that you don't want. That's going to drive
you some toxicity. Is this molecule
going to be stable? It's got to survive the
really acidic conditions of the stomach. It's got to survive going
through the liver, which is going through a war zone. The liver wants to
do everything it can. It's like, this is
a foreign molecule, I need to get rid of it. So your molecule has
got to be really robust. It's got to survive
that journey. It's got to be soluble. When you take a pill, that pills
got to dissolve in your stomach, and it's got to stay
dissolved all the way through your intestine
because, otherwise, it's not going to absorb into your body. And a lot of these parameters
are pulling against each other. So for something to be soluble
and dissolve really well, it needs to be water loving. But for it to bind
to the protein and to gain affinity in that
kind of pocket, that LEGO connection, it actually
needs to be water hating. HANNAH FRY: Well,
how do you possibly solve that if you need
opposing characteristics? REBECCA HALL: So we've-- up
until this point and still now, to some degree, drug discovery
is a very iterative process. So the human brain can only
think about so many things at one time. So you're like, OK,
I'm going to solve this binding-affinity
problem a bit, and then, I'm going
to start to think, OK, is my molecule soluble? And then I'm going to
start to bring in gradually these other properties. And honestly, it's
like Whack-a-mole. You play like this three-year
game of Whack-a-mole where you're like, I
fixed this problem. Hooray. And then this other
one pops up and you're like, OK, I'll fix that, but
then the other one's gone bad, again. So to be able to predict
all these things in silico is still a really,
really hard problem. HANNAH FRY: Are you
working on tools that will help with those elements, too? MAX JADERBERG: Yeah, absolutely. So we think about, ISO,
how do we do drug design end-to-end, which really means
solving all of these very, very hard problems with cell
permeability, solubility, toxicity, liver
clearance, everything. And none of this is solved. These are really hard
problems to even model. So we spend a lot of
effort, a lot of research, on creating new models to
really understand this better. And then as Becky
was talking about, how do we then start to find
these needles in a haystack molecules that are somehow
just balancing the properties just right to be a perfect drug? And it's really, really hard. And actually, there are a lot of
analogies to maybe what I used to do at DeepMind in, for
example, "Capture the Flag" or "StarCraft" is there's
not just one agent, or strategy that
solves "StarCraf" or a particular game like "Go." You have to completely start
mixing up these strategies, and working out exploits for
each individual strategy, and, basically, searching this
huge combinatorial strategy space. In the same way, we
need to be searching this huge
combinatorial-molecule space. So just like you might have
tree search in a game of "Go," where at every move, you
elucidate some other possible moves, and you start searching
through that tree of possible strategies going
deeper and deeper. And just like you can do that
for moves in a game of "Go," you can imagine doing a similar
thing for designing a molecule. So you start with a
part of a molecule and you start to
hypothesize, what are the different things
I could add or take away from this molecule? And you get to a whole
tree of possible futures that you can then
score and work out a value associated
with that to create that perfect molecule for
this very specific indication. HANNAH FRY: But how do you even
know that the perfect molecule exists? Maybe there's just some
crevices in the proteins that just are unfittable. REBECCA HALL: We do have this
concept of undruggable proteins where the crevice
is really flat, and you can't really get
anything to grip in there. And those proteins might
need different solutions. So actually, we have
a whole emerging field which we call molecular glues. And this is where you have two
proteins that come together, and the pocket that's formed
when they come together is actually a much
more suitable pocket. So now, you need to
design a molecule that sits in the middle of them
and glues them together. So there's this whole
explosion of all these different
modalities now, which makes this an incredibly
exciting field to work in. MAX JADERBERG: From
my perspective, the fact that we've actually
found any drugs at all already, given how hard and
complex the problem is-- and we've basically been
doing a bit of human intuition and a lot of random screening
and experimental testing. And we've managed
to find molecules, even though the
design space is huge. Actually, that gives
me a lot of hope, because that means that there's
probably a lot of redundancy in chemical space,
i.e., there's probably lots of different
solutions that could work, but we've just got to find them. HANNAH FRY: Have
you actually tried to make any of these
molecule, or at the moment, do they just exist
on the screen? REBECCA HALL: Oh, no, we
make a lot of molecules. We've got a huge
experimental footprint. Yeah. HANNAH FRY: And how-- do
they turn out how you expect? I mean, what are
the results like? REBECCA HALL: We've had
some incredible success in some of our projects where
I'll find Max at his desk and I'll be like, have
you seen this thing? And we'll just both be
really mind-blown about it. HANNAH FRY: That when you get
the molecule, it actually works. MAX JADERBERG: Yeah,
exactly, exactly. And we have our own
drug-design programs, so things that we've started
from scratch ourselves. We also work with
pharma-company partners, people like Eli Lilly and Novartis. In these collaborations, you'll
get specific targets to work on. And these are ones that these
companies have high conviction behind and probably a
bunch of evidence behind. Some of the
collaborations we're in, we've been given very,
very hard targets. These are things that
people have worked on sometimes for over a decade and
not made significant progress, to the point where you've
got something on the market. HANNAH FRY: Things like
cancer and that sort of stuff. MAX JADERBERG: Whole host of
therapeutic areas and disease areas. And then Becky
and team sit down, start designing
with these models, and can start finding
completely novel chemical matter for completely novel mechanisms
that no one's really discovered before, which is
mind-blowing for me-- HANNAH FRY: Yeah. MAX JADERBERG: --as
a computer scientist. REBECCA HALL: Yeah, it's
mind-blowing for me. There's been some almost
career-defining moments, where the AI will
give you a hypothesis. It will suggest something. And you think, I'm not
convinced I would do that, but the model's
telling me this thing. And it's really quite
convinced about this thing, so I should maybe just
test this hypothesis. And then, actually, it turns
out that the model was right, and you were absolutely
right to test it, and it's really pushed
forward your project, or even that field. So I think, for me, it's not
about how we trust the models, it's about how we are open to
testing the hypotheses that they put in front of
us and not going, oh, that doesn't fit
with my worldview, so I'm not going to test it. HANNAH FRY: But then you
are also human, right? REBECCA HALL: Yes. HANNAH FRY: So I
do wonder whether if you see lots of hits
with the model, as it were. If the model is coming up with
lots of good stuff in a row, do you start to maybe trusting
it more than yourself? REBECCA HALL: We actually put
a lot of trust in the models. We actually use-- for example,
some of the models we have, we use them as quite
strict cutoffs. HANNAH FRY: What kind of cutoff? REBECCA HALL: For
example, we have a model which we call
binding probability, and it goes from 0 to 1. So 1 is the model is convinced
your molecule is definitely going to bind to your protein. Zero, the model is telling
you, this is definitely not going to bind. And when you can build a
little bit of confidence over time that the model
really does understand, OK, anything below 0.7, it's really
got a very low probability of success. So we just define
that as a cutoff and be like, we're not
going to put anything in the lab that's got a
probability of less than this because, actually, the model
is quite likely to be right. It's probably not
going to be any good. And so you do-- even
though-- and that's quite hard because as a
chemist, you design something, and you think, that was
a really clever idea that I just came up with,
and why doesn't it like it? HANNAH FRY: But then what
if it makes something that you don't
understand, I mean, or that doesn't make sense? I mean, does it need
to explain itself? REBECCA HALL: I think at the
moment that explainability is quite important for now,
because the process is quite driven still by the human. It's not end-to-end yet. We have to go in there, and we
have to say, what comes next? So if there's no
explainability there, you don't know what
would be next, right? And so that would be very
difficult to work with. I can imagine in a future state
where, actually, the process is a bit more end-to-end,
like in one step, the model. Here's a drug. HANNAH FRY: Here's a drug. REBECCA HALL: Yeah. Then actually, maybe you don't
need that explainability. But when you've got to
go in there as a human and you've got to
iterate and you've got to do a bit more
of that directionality, then that explainability
is important. And that's where I think, for
me, the AlphaFold models really come in because,
OK, the model is predicting this molecule
is going to be good. I can rationalize that with
what I'm actually seeing. I know what I would do next. HANNAH FRY: You have a
slightly different view on explainability, don't you? REBECCA HALL: I do have
a slightly different view on explainability, but I think
you need explainability when your model sucks, basically. And we don't have
perfect models yet, so I think there's a good amount
of room for explainability. But I always hear the
call for explainability and think, look, we need
to make this model better. And actually, the interesting
thing about explainability is it can help you understand
the pathologies that this model has, the biases that it has. Where's that wrong, given the
science that we know about? And so we can
start patching that and make it better and better
and get to this point where, yeah, actually, we can just
do end-to-end design purely in silico, and maybe do a
final round of verification in the lab at the end. HANNAH FRY: So, I mean,
you literally say, make me a drug for X disease,
off it goes, says here's the molecule you need. MAX JADERBERG: Yeah, yeah. HANNAH FRY: Do you
think that's possible? MAX JADERBERG: I
think it's possible. I think it's possible. I think everything is
pointing in that direction. We're getting better and better. We're already reducing the
amount of experimental cycles you need, reducing the
amount of lab time you need. And, yeah, this is
just the beginning. HANNAH FRY: Absolutely
extraordinary. I mean, I suppose it does depend
on knowing what protein you're targeting, too, right? REBECCA HALL: Yes. HANNAH FRY: So still--
and the diseases that we don't have a full
understanding are still going to be difficult. REBECCA HALL: Yeah. And that kind of-- we
call it target ID space, where you actually need to
identify the protein that's causing your disease. It's actually a really
important part of drug discovery because if you're not hitting
the right biological target from the start, you can design
the best molecule in the world. It's not going to do
what you want it to do when you put it into a human. So there's a lot to be done
in that target ID space. And I think AI's got a big
role to play there, as well. MAX JADERBERG: It's one
of the big frontiers of AI for biology is
really understanding, what are those driving
mechanisms of disease? Can we start to understand
how mutations in our DNA translate into changes
of expression of RNA, and how that changes the type
of proteins and expression levels of proteins, how
those proteins interact with each other and build up
into these signaling pathways, and how changes in
those signaling pathways change the disease
state, as well? And, of course, if we can
start to understand these bits, we can start to
work out, where do we need to modulate
this biological system? But all of this is
really, really hard. And there's some
amazing breakthroughs happening in the field
understanding DNA better, understanding
this translation better. Even through understanding
how proteins interact, can we build up these
interaction networks better? This is some of the really
exciting frontier research that we're also doing at ISO. HANNAH FRY: So you have a team
working in that space, as well. MAX JADERBERG:
Yeah, that's right. We have a whole
computational biology team, whole machine-learning
modeling team focused in this space, yeah. HANNAH FRY: But then what
about personalized medicine? Because I guess each person
is different in some ways. MAX JADERBERG: I mean, this
is the really exciting, potential future where we
can understand much more about, for example, cancer
individuals' mutations in their tumor, and
through generative AI and design agents,
be able to come up with molecules that
work specifically for these sort of mutations. Now, there's a
whole question of, how do we actually
operationalize that, and get these drugs to patients,
and approve this framework? But we're moving towards a
place where that technology could be potentially there. HANNAH FRY: I mean, I'm thinking
here about chemotherapy drugs, which come with really
devastating side effects. You think there's real
hope on the horizon for that kind of thing? REBECCA HALL: Yeah, I mean, we
think about chemotherapy drugs. They're basically drugs
that are nonspecific. So they're going into
the body, and they're trying to halt that
rapid cell proliferation. But what we have
now is an ability to think about, actually, what's
the specific target, the protein target that we want to inhibit,
we want to stop its function? And that might have
the same effect. But you're not just
generally using something that's just very
toxic to rapidly dividing cells. Yes, it's going to stop
your tumor cells dividing, but it's also going
to stop the cells that line your stomach
and your intestine, going to make you feel
nauseous and sick. It's going to stop
your hair follicles. You're going to lose your
hair, whereas, we now know we can go in, we can
target a very specific protein, the one that's actually
causing the disease. And if you inhibit that
particular protein, that's not going to cause-- hopefully, if you
get it right, it's not going to cause all
these other side effects. MAX JADERBERG: You can do some
also really, really cool stuff with targeting particular cells. So if you know that a particular
cell type is expressing something on its surface, you
can start programming things like antibodies to come in and
find those particular receptors. And so you're delivering
your payloads directly to that particular cell type and
not more broadly to the body. HANNAH FRY: I just want
to go back to the point that you made
earlier, Becky, about, once you've got the
drug design, then once you put it into
the human, there's all of these other potential
problems because, I mean, there have been examples
of this before where drugs have been made and looked
like they were very good. And then once you actually
put it into a human, it causes some massive problems. I think there was
one which people were very excited about the impact
it was going to have on pain, but it turned out
that protein also was quite crucial to making
sure your heart kept beating. How do you mitigate against
that, or can you not at this stage? REBECCA HALL: Well, one
of the problems we have is that we often use animal
models to then translate things into the clinic. And animal models, they don't
replicate human physiology very well at all, actually. So we know when we're
working in the discovery and preclinical space,
which is all of that space before you go into
a human, we're working with different
animal models, which might model the disease
we're interested in. And we're looking
for molecules which have an effect in
those animal models. And we have to show
that they're not toxic in those animal models. And then we use that
bank of evidence to go to the drug-regulatory
bodies and say, right, we're ready to go into a human. But from that point
until the market, there's a 90% failure rate. HANNAH FRY: Wow, 90%. REBECCA HALL: So
all that investment up to that point, which is huge. HANNAH FRY: What makes
them so likely to fail? REBECCA HALL: So molecules fail
in the clinic for toxicity. They fail in the clinic
for lack of efficacy. And I think a lot of it comes
back to the animal models we use just are not very good
at replicating human physiology. HANNAH FRY: Because the mouse
is different to a human. REBECCA HALL: A
mouse is different. So we can cure a mouse disease,
probably be quite good at that. HANNAH FRY: We've got loads
of medication that works. REBECCA HALL: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. REBECCA HALL: But,
yeah, that translation is a big part of science
that we need to fix. HANNAH FRY: Can AI
help here, as well? I mean, if animal models
are this stumbling block with such a
low level of success, what can you do about it? MAX JADERBERG: Well, this
is where we can actually use some of the technology and
models we've been developing and think about, OK, how can
we understand toxicity better, understand the
effect on human cells better, and see how that
translates to organs? If you think about some of
these off-target effects, probably, there are many drugs
that you go into the clinic and you're hitting
your target of interest and it's curing your
pain, but then it's hitting another target that's
in another protein in your heart and stopping the
function of your heart. That's an off-target effect. HANNAH FRY: I mean, side
effects, in general, are off-target effects,
though, aren't they? MAX JADERBERG: Yeah, exactly. But you can imagine that if
we've been building models that understand really well how
this molecule interacts with your target of interest, you
could also ask the question, well, how does this molecule
interact with every other target in the human body,
all 20,000 proteins? And you can start building up
this fingerprint of interactions that this molecule,
your drug molecule, is having across the body. And so that can give you clues,
maybe even concrete signal, into the toxicity or side
effects of this molecule. And the nice thing is we can
get that signal, not when you're going into humans, but actually,
at the very, very beginning of the design process. So by the time you've gone
through all of your molecule design and you get to the
point where you're like, yeah, I want to go into
humans, you've been thinking about these side
effects in a very rational way for a long time. And so, hopefully, your chances
of actually hitting some of those radically reduces. HANNAH FRY: You're taking
your structure of LEGO bricks, or your jigsaw, and
you're just trying it with every other
possible combination that it might encounter
in a human body. MAX JADERBERG: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: That's amazing. MAX JADERBERG: We're going
to make every possible LEGO combination. HANNAH FRY: Well, if that's
the design stage, then, Becky-- I mean, you also have to put
this into clinical trials. Just talk us through the
process of clinical trials, if you could. REBECCA HALL: So the first
time that your molecule ever goes into a human, that's
a phase I clinical trial. So it will be a small
number of patients. Some of those might actually
be healthy volunteers. They don't necessarily
have the disease that you're interested in. And what you're looking to see
is, does your drug actually reach the level of exposure
in the patient that would be needed to generate an effect? And is the drug well
tolerated, or do you suddenly start to see some side effects
that you weren't anticipating? If all is good, you'll proceed
to a phase II clinical trial, which is now you're
going into people who actually have the
disease, and you're going into larger numbers. You're really looking
to answer the question, does your molecule actually have
efficacy against the disease that you're interested in? And this is where we do
see that big failure rate. So 70% of molecules
going into phase II don't actually pass
through into phase III. For those that do
pass into phase III, that's where you're going into
much bigger patient populations seeing if your drug is effective
across that bigger population. It's not just got
to be safe, but it's got to be better than
the standard of care. There's got to be some-- for doctors to
actually prescribe this to their patients, they've got
to say, this drug is better, or this drug is safer
than what I currently use. HANNAH FRY: And this whole
thing has a 90% failure rate, as you said. REBECCA HALL: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: I mean,
does that mean that there are people
who work in this space who never, never succeed? REBECCA HALL: Yeah. So I'm a medicinal
chemist, and we often have this number
where, actually, only 1 in 20 medicinal chemists will
ever get a drug to market. So 19 of us out of every 20 will
never get a drug onto the market through our careers. So, yeah, we are
a profession where we're used to seeing
significant failure. HANNAH FRY: You're comfortable
with failure as a profession. REBECCA HALL: We're
comfortable with failure. We learn from it. HANNAH FRY: Extraordinary,
extraordinary to imagine. How long do you think it will be
until the first AI-design drug is on the market? Because all of these additional
levels really take some time, don't they? REBECCA HALL: So those
AI-designed drugs that are in the clinic
now in clinical trials and the different levels of AI
input into those current drugs, I would imagine that
in the next five years or so, we're going to
see an approval of one of those medicines. But for me, the
big thing is going to be, when can AI start to
really fill out this pipeline and start to get drugs into
the clinic really quickly and really start to deliver
molecules for patients? That, for me, will be when AI
is having a really big impact. HANNAH FRY: When you can start
to say, here's the target, and then it pops out
a drug at the end. REBECCA HALL: Yeah,
and you can put that straight into the clinic. HANNAH FRY: And be
confident that it's not going to cause any
damage to a person. REBECCA HALL: And even a
slightly improved level of confidence in where we are
now would be quite impactful. Yeah. MAX JADERBERG: Yeah,
because as Becky said, there's already molecules
in the clinic that have been touched
by AI, that have been enabled by AI in some way. We're just going to see
more and more of that. In five years' time doing
drug design without AI will be like doing any sort
of science without maths. And to be honest, I think
the whole of science will be like this is,
if you're not using AI, what are you doing? There's just so much
information to be gained there. So yeah, as Becky
said, it's more like, how do we actually see that
rapid increase in disease areas that we're able to
tackle the targets, that we're able to unlock,
ultimately, patients that we're able to help. HANNAH FRY: Amazing. Thank you both. That was really interesting. REBECCA HALL: Thank
you for having us. It was so much fun. MAX JADERBERG: Yeah, it's
been great to be here. HANNAH FRY: I
think I now realize that medicinal chemistry
is one of the hardest jobs in the world. It takes years to design a drug. Even if you get it to clinical
trials, 90% of them fail. And only one in 20
of your colleagues ever manages to see
their medicine improving the lives of patients. But strangely, that is
precisely what I think is so exciting about this
space because if everything we've done up until
now has, effectively, been like working in the dark,
slowly, laboriously navigating the most infinitesimally small
areas of the vast landscape of possibilities, it's
like someone has just turned on a floodlight. And, OK, of course, we are
still very, very far away from a big AI button that's just
going to solve all diseases. But there is so much headroom
here for improvement, so much scope to move the
dial, and simultaneously, so much opportunity to directly
impact the lives of all of us. You have been listening to
"Google DeepMind," the Podcast, with me, Professor Hannah Fry. If you enjoyed
this episode, then do subscribe to our
YouTube channel, or leave a review on your
favorite podcast platform. And, of course, we have
plenty more episodes on a whole range of topics to
come, so do check those out. See you next time. [MUSIC PLAYING]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: 8Q02UAfqwWU (https://youtu.be/8Q02UAfqwWU) ===


JOELLE BARRAL: I'm hoping AI
contributes to bringing back the joy of practicing medicine. HANNAH FRY: So wait,
it actually works then. JOELLE BARRAL: Yes, it does. HANNAH FRY: You
record a cough and it can tell if you've got TB. JOELLE BARRAL: In short, yes. By combining those
modalities, by getting to a deeper understanding at
the cellular level of what's going on, we'll finally be
able to crack, for example, triple-negative breast cancers
or more advanced cancers that, today, we don't
have good solutions for. HANNAH FRY: Are you
concerned that people are trying to diagnose
themselves with generative AI? JOELLE BARRAL: Yeah. I mean, I would say,
even before, you really shouldn't do that, right? You shouldn't play
your own doctor. [MUSIC PLAYING] HANNAH FRY: Welcome back to
"Google DeepMind, The Podcast." I'm Professor Hannah Fry. In this episode, I'm
talking to Joelle Barral, Senior Director of Research
at Google DeepMind, about AI for health. Now, for years, we have joked
about how the internet is the hypochondriac's best
friend, capable of turning a small headache into a
terminal illness and vice versa, with a quick search and
a click of a button. But quietly, behind
the scenes, the role of algorithms in medical
care has been shifting. We've already talked
a lot on this podcast about the impact of AI on
drug discovery and research into proteins. But now, AI promises to change
diagnosis and treatment, too. Welcome to the podcast, Joelle. I mean, there have been some
pretty big changes already with AI. Should we expect
that health care will look very different
in 10 or 15 years time to how it looks now? JOELLE BARRAL: Absolutely. I believe so. I think health care
is really posed to be drastically
changed with AI, but it may not
look too different. I like to think of-- or at
least I picture health care as a fairly sticky ecosystem. So 10, 15 years from
now, we will likely still go to our primary care doctor
and then follow through with specialist
visits, et cetera. But each of them is going to
be augmented, if you wish, by an AI agent. So underneath, the system
will be very different, but it may not appear
as different from what we know today. HANNAH FRY: How
long have you been working in AI in health care? JOELLE BARRAL: Oh, wow. My whole career, I would say. I was still a student
when, I think it was CS229, the class on machine
learning was taking off. And I remember working with-- I was further along in my
PhD, but working with students on how to segment the larynx. And AI was this new
tool that could really help us do that better. And I haven't
stopped ever since. HANNAH FRY: But why
this area for you? What's the appeal of it for you? JOELLE BARRAL: In health care,
you're always challenged, right? There are lots of things
that we don't do that well or you don't have infinite data. And so you're never perfect. So you're always trying
to leverage the best tools to do what you're trying to do. And then I joined
Google a decade ago to work on surgical robotics. And I remember vividly. It was the beginning
of us really realizing that, with images,
anything that a human could do in terms of
interpreting those images, machines were going
to be able to do. And so I sat down with
my surgeon colleague, and we took 100
cholecystectomies, which are when you
remove the gallbladder. We manually segmented
livers and gallbladders. And I fed a pretty
simple neural net to see whether the algorithm
would be able to decipher between those two things. And I remembered being
incredibly surprised, actually, when it did that perfectly. Because most of the other
tools we had at our disposal were never perfect. It did the job, but not always. Now, livers and gallbladders
really don't look the same. It's a very easy task. Any student will be able to
tell you which one is which. But still, that really,
for me, meant, OK, now we have something that
will be infinitely more powerful than any of the
algorithms I had been working on previously. And people forget, right? But when I was still a
student, we didn't know-- it was hard with computer
vision to decipher a QR code. That was where we
were back then. And so, again, AI
has really opened up a world of capabilities
far beyond anything we could envision before. HANNAH FRY: OK. Well, let's start off with
some of the examples of places where AI has already
made a lot of headway. I'm thinking about
diagnosis here and maybe medical imaging in particular. Talk to me a bit about
what's been going on. JOELLE BARRAL: Yeah. We've seen a lot of that
over the last 10 years. That's what we typically
call "narrow AI." Narrow because it's
solving one task. You mentioned medical imaging. So you can take a
chest X-ray, or an MRI, or we've done also
diabetic retinopathy work. Those are already tools
that have been FDA-cleared, for example, and
deployed in the clinic. And they are augmenting
radiologists in the sense that, for those specific
tasks, the machine does a pretty damn
good job at annotating the image for the physician. HANNAH FRY: Let me make
sure I understand this then. OK. So if we take diabetic
retinopathy as an example, this is people who have
diabetes and, potentially, it's a cause of blindness. Is that right? JOELLE BARRAL: Absolutely. It's the leading cause of
preventable blindness worldwide. And it's pretty simple. So you take an image of the back
of the eye with a fundus camera, and that gives you an
image of the retina that then ophthalmologists will
grade on a scale from 1 to 5 to indicate whether
patients have no disease, moderate
disease, or severe disease. And what was striking when
we started working on that particular problem was the fact
that it was actually really hard to get to what we call
"ground truth," meaning, as we're training our machine
learning models to learn a task, we first need to provide them
with a set of ground-truth images. That means the pairs of
the image and the label. And for that particular
task, we asked maybe 1, 2, 3 ophthalmologists, and often
we got different answers. And I think one thing
we did particularly well was to be very
rigorous in trying to establish ground truth. And so we ended up
working with 50-- 5-0-- ophthalmologists. And we realized that,
actually, on some images, they really didn't
agree with each other. Some would have given 1, 2, 3. Each one of the scores
could have potentially been the diagnosis a
patient would have received because patients only see one. They don't go and have
their images graded by-- HANNAH FRY: 50 times. JOELLE BARRAL: --50 people. Yeah. HANNAH FRY: Boy. So some ophthalmologists
would say, this is a mild or no
disease, and others would say all the way up to
severe, on the same image. JOELLE BARRAL: Precisely, which
sometimes is not too surprising, meaning that most
ophthalmologists-- and that's true for most physicians--
see what's in their community. And the rare cases,
by definition, they don't see them very often. So it can get very hard to
properly annotate an image, if you don't see
that type very often. HANNAH FRY: Well, how
do you do that, then? If even the experts
don't agree, how do you decide what
the correct answer is? JOELLE BARRAL: Well, that's
exactly why we had to go to 50. Then you have this consensus
among all ophthalmologists. And sometimes you go
to even deeper experts to really get to what is the
correct label for that image. And that way, you properly
train your algorithms. And then we also did a
lot of rigorous testing to make sure that we had
algorithms in which we could-- I mean, which we could trust. HANNAH FRY: But then I suppose,
on the flip side of that, even though that makes the
labeling quite difficult, if you know that
experts are disagreeing, then actually you
can create something that is a new gold standard
really, better than the experts. JOELLE BARRAL: Absolutely. And I think that's where the
AI has really its role to play. It's for tasks that it is really
good at that are really not very easy to be done
by a single human. HANNAH FRY: I seem to remember
reading this paper about where some researchers had
all of these images of the back of the eye and
were like, you know what? Let's just see,
for fun, if you can tell the sex of the patient
based on the blood vessels at the back of the eye. And no ophthalmologist
in the world, I think, could do this reliably,
but the AI can. JOELLE BARRAL: Yeah, absolutely. It was very interesting to
then interrogate those images for other things than
just diabetic retinopathy and see that the model performed
better than flipping a coin. And for some things-- I'm not sure you need
a model to decipher the sex of your patient. HANNAH FRY: [LAUGHS] JOELLE BARRAL: But I do
think for indications of potential cardiac
disease, for example, that can be a useful tool. Because if you're going
to do that screening for diabetic retinopathy
anyway, but now you have a test that
can also provide you with additional information,
you could potentially screen for more diseases. So, indeed. And it was both
interestingly scientifically to realize how those images
contained a lot more information than we initially thought,
and with, potentially, also applications that
could derive from that. HANNAH FRY: Well,
does it imply maybe that even though you've
created an algorithm to do this narrow task, actually
there is potential for the AI to help improve the overall
understanding of the human body? JOELLE BARRAL: I would
answer maybe in two ways. The first is, in radiology,
there's this thing called "incidental findings." Because it's very
often that, if you screen me head to toe with MRI
right now, you'll find things. You'll find nodules,
things that are abnormal. They will get me worried. But actually, we never
did clinical trials to see whether having that
thing somewhere is good or bad. And many people live
with those things forever, without any issues. So you don't really want to
do that type of screening that will get everyone worried. And the other thing I would say
is, when you do a blood test, you do a blood test for
a very particular thing. The lab who did the blood test
for finding a particular virus is not responsible for
checking everything. And if they haven't noticed
that you had something else that wasn't what you got
blood drawn, they're not responsible for that. And so for imaging, it's
always a little ambiguous what to do with those
incidental findings. And for those aspects
of narrow AI, maybe-- I think the jury is
still out whether or not we want the AI to always look
for everything else, when it's looking at one particular
image, even if it could provide pretty helpful alarms. HANNAH FRY: Those are images
that we've spoken about, but are there other
inputs that you can use for this very
narrow AI type of diagnosis? JOELLE BARRAL: Absolutely. I would say all types
of modalities, right? We've done a lot of very
interesting work with sound, for example, leveraging sound to
be able to detect tuberculosis from cough. And people have also explored
that quite a bit during COVID, obviously. And so we see good
biomarkers, actually, in sound that can help also
provide some relatively cheap ways to diagnose those
types of diseases. HANNAH FRY: So, wait. It actually works then? JOELLE BARRAL: Yes, it does. HANNAH FRY: You
record a cough, and it can tell if you've got TB. JOELLE BARRAL: In short, yes,
that's exactly what it is. HANNAH FRY: OK. But there are limitations to
this stuff, though, right? I mean, are they getting
it right every single time? JOELLE BARRAL: No. I think that's a
very good point. Like with any algorithms, there
is sensitivity and specificity. So it can have either false
positives, false negatives, so thinking that
something exists when it doesn't, or
missing something that it should have picked. In general, though,
what we do and what we did with the diabetic
retinopathy paper is really checking how it
does with respect to the best physicians or the best
panels of physicians, and then letting the
human, who is always working with the
algorithm, decide where on that specificity
sensitivity tradeoff they want to operate. And so they can
decide that, really, they cannot afford false
alarms, or the other way around, that they cannot afford
missing anything. But in both cases, I
think for an algorithm to be cleared by
regulatory authorities, it needs to have shown
very strong performance. HANNAH FRY: OK. Let me break that down then. So it could be that an algorithm
could say that it's TB when it isn't. But it also could
be that an algorithm could miss a genuine case of
TB and say that it was fine. And obviously, you don't
want either of those things to happen. But what percentage
accuracy almost are you willing to
accept before you say, OK, this model is adding value? JOELLE BARRAL: So
it really depends. If you're going to deploy your-- let's say it's a
screening test, in places that had nothing before. It's a very different
story than if you're replacing an existing
alternate way of screening that same population. If you're replacing something,
you'd better be at least better. If you're coming in where
there was before a void, then public health
authorities are going to decide what they
deem as acceptable. It also depends what will
happen to the patients that are provided with that diagnosis. If they go home and you
never see them again, it's a different story
than if your tool is a pre-screening tool. And then you're going
to reroute your patients to an additional screening
tool for confirmation. HANNAH FRY: When you
launch these things, for example, the TB model
or diabetic retinopathy, does that mean that
you aim initially to go to places where they don't
have these existing screening tests in place? JOELLE BARRAL: It
really depends. For diabetic
retinopathy, for example, it is something that we've
indeed deployed in Thailand. And then we often
work with partners to really bring it where
it makes a difference. We've already screened
700,000 people in Thailand. And we're 10X-ing that
over the next few years. HANNAH FRY: Why Thailand? JOELLE BARRAL: So
Thailand is one of those countries in which
the patient population that each ophthalmologist has
to care for is fairly large. There are many places in
which there aren't really enough doctors. And so it's a good example of a
place in which AI screening can really help improve outcomes. HANNAH FRY: Let's
say that you have a situation in which some
sort of medical imaging is being used in
conjunction with a doctor. What happens if
the two disagree? JOELLE BARRAL: Ah. [CHUCKLES] I think at
the end of the day, the doctor is really
the one making the call. So it's very important
that they retain control, and they are the one
making the decision, and they are the ones signing
their name on the report. And so they would have
to explain, right? If they're saying
the machine is wrong, it could be for a
variety of reasons. In other cases, you could
think of the algorithm making the physician rethink. So it's checking your work, like
a spell checker, if you wish. Sometimes I disagree
with my spell checker, with accents on words
in French or things. It's not perfect. But I will double-check. HANNAH FRY: OK. Well, let's talk about some of
the more advanced stuff here. Because up until now,
I mean, the examples that we've been using
here is an MRI, or photo of the back of an eye,
or the sound of a cough. What about the
more holistic view? So, I mean, really good
medicine doesn't see a human as a collection of interesting
or otherwise medical problems. It sees a human as a human. Can you use AI to think
more holistically? JOELLE BARRAL: AI is indeed
very good at looking together at things that, up until
now, we were only-- or mostly capable of
looking at individually. And maybe bring insights that,
up until now, we didn't have. HANNAH FRY: Like what? Like what? I mean, if you do manage
to connect up everything we understand about the cell,
to everything we understand about an organ, to
eventually everything we understand about
human, what do you find in those connections? JOELLE BARRAL: So back in the
days, we did quite a bit of work in virtual staining. So when you have an H&E slide-- so that's what happens when
any part of any piece of tissue removed from your
body, in surgery, typically, will be sliced and
looked at under the microscope. And the way we do
that is that we make hypothesis as to what
might be happening. And we stain accordingly so that
it makes those things visible. And you can think of
some of those techniques as making that visible but
without having to stain. So really revealing some
of that information, if it's already in the
tissue, but without having to bring additional
things that are consuming that piece of tissue. HANNAH FRY: Would destroy
the tissue for future tests. JOELLE BARRAL: Exactly, exactly. So to me, there's also something
quite profound in the way we're now interrogating tissue
with more and more instruments, with things like
transcriptomics, genomics, single-cell, et cetera. And so that's really a
wonderful application for AI, because the AI can look at
each modality and, if you wish, provide us with eyes for
that particular scientific instrument. And then it goes beyond,
because it's also capable at bridging between
those different types of scientific instruments. HANNAH FRY: So
then, you presumably can start to combine some of
these quite complex AI tools on imaging, on genomics, on all
the various things that you're describing. Does that actually allow you to
advance in your understanding of diseases? I mean, I'm thinking of cancer
care here, for instance. JOELLE BARRAL: Yeah,
it's a great example. And that's what we are
actually precisely working on with the L'Institut Curie,
the Curie Institute in Paris. That is very advanced in
exploiting all of those most recent modalities to
better understand cancer, in that case, women's cancer-- so uterine cancer
or breast cancer, which, despite our best
efforts for many, many decades, we're still short of
answers for many women. And we're really hoping that
by combining those modalities, by getting to a
deeper understanding at the cellular level
of what's going on, we'll finally be able
to crack, for example, triple-negative breast cancers
or some of the-- again, more advanced cancers that, today, we
don't have good solutions for. HANNAH FRY: As well as cells and
genomics and imaging, I mean, there are other data
sources that the AI can bring into the equation
here as well, right? JOELLE BARRAL: Absolutely. And I think that's
also maybe one of the secrets AI will be
able to decipher, which is, health is in everything we do. It's how many steps
you walked today, what you ate for
breakfast, lunch, and dinner, whether you've
interacted with friends or been lonely all day long. And so it's typically
really, really hard to translate that into
either healthy habits or understand how much of that
is factoring into something physical that is going on. And we're doing a lot
of work with sensors. I'm wearing this Fitbit today. It's just one of
the data sources that can really be leveraged,
in combination with everything else, to try to both
better understand health, sometimes
just as an individual, and also when we're
trying to change behavior, accompany us on that journey. HANNAH FRY: I mean,
you're talking about quite different
quality of data here. You've got slides from
biopsies and genomic data and then step count. It sort of feels like a quite
fuzzy thing around the edges. Would it actually
make a difference? JOELLE BARRAL: It does. I mean, it's been shown
over and over again, for example, how
much sleep matters for both cardiovascular
health and in oncology in terms of preventing cancer. So it's one of my hopes,
that AI will bring those two together in a
way that is harder to do in our traditional
health care systems and also very hard to
do for us as individuals because you see that type of
impact at a population level. As an individual, it's really
hard to convince yourself that you should go to bed one
hour earlier because that's actually the best thing
you can do for your health. HANNAH FRY: There's
quite a lot of buzz at the moment about
digital twins. Does this also add to the
whole holistic view of health? I mean, is there
an idea of making a kind of digital
twin of yourself for health care purposes? JOELLE BARRAL: Yeah. We see that a lot. And it can mean different
things for different people. There is the idea
that the digital twin is kind of a simulation of
someone with a similar persona, for example, and then
that can be a good proxy to interrogate the potential
impact of different types of interventions. And then digital twin can
mean something quite different for the pharma industry,
for example, where there's a lot of work trying to see how
far we can go with in silico arms, for example,
of clinical trials, if we manage to assemble virtual
cohorts that are allowing us to, in the end, gain as much
knowledge about the safety and efficacy of a drug,
but without needing as many people for that
particular clinical trial. HANNAH FRY: Oh,
that's so interesting. So is this about, I
don't know, making a cohort of simulated
humans almost-- maybe not the whole thing--
maybe just an organ or whatever it is you're
particularly focusing on-- but so that you
don't necessarily have to use as many people
in your clinical trial? JOELLE BARRAL: Exactly. For clinical trials, that
would be exactly that. HANNAH FRY: But then to be able
to do that effectively, you have to really, really
understand what real humans look like, which means
having a wealth of data from individual patients
somewhere along the way. How do people feel about
contributing their own data for this kind of end? For the research of
medical purposes? JOELLE BARRAL: I think
when we talk about privacy, we see different concerns in
different parts of the world. In Europe, there are a lot
of sovereignty concerns. People want to know
that the data is-- I mean, not in all countries--
but is staying on their soil. And we have solution for that. All of the trusted
public cloud solutions, for example, are complying with
the highest levels of regulation on that topic. In other parts of the world, we
see a lot of appetite for people to not think that they
are sick for nothing. By that, I mean, it's
actually quite compelling to know that if you're sick
but you're contributing data to research, you're helping
making the last person that is going to have the same fate
a little less sick, if you wish. So I think really enabling
that virtuous cycle is really where we have to be. HANNAH FRY: Because it does
feel like health care data is a particularly sensitive case. Because, on the one hand,
exactly as you described, there is huge potential to
advance our understanding and improve conditions
for people who-- future generations. But on the other hand,
if health care data gets into the wrong hands, or is
misused, or used irresponsibly, I mean, there is real sort of-- I think people
have real concerns about the potential
ramifications of that. So, I mean, how do you
strike that balance? JOELLE BARRAL: Absolutely. Once you have the technology
to actually protect the data, there's also accountability. That meaning that if we're
saying that this research will be helpful to the people, that
indeed, at the end of the day, it is research that is
helpful to the people where the data originated. And I think that's a
very important principle in the same way that you
shouldn't do clinical trials in places of the world-- in
some places of the world-- and then the drugs benefit
in other places of the world. HANNAH FRY: So you're not
just extracting from one to give to another. JOELLE BARRAL: Precisely. HANNAH FRY: OK. I also want to ask you a
bit more about the patient's experience in all of this. Because I think-- are
large language models changing the game here already? I mean, are you
concerned that people are trying to diagnose
themselves with generative AI? JOELLE BARRAL: Yeah. I mean, I would say,
even before, you really shouldn't do that, right? You shouldn't play
your own doctor. HANNAH FRY: People do,
though, don't they? Let's be honest. JOELLE BARRAL: I
think people want to know, and
especially in places where waiting time
to see a physician is becoming a real issue. Then, of course,
patients are trying to learn as much as possible and
to decipher what's happening, and sometimes quite effectively
when they are there because they are their best advocate--
or a parent trying to figure something out for their child. And sometimes we have
a couple of examples where, for rare
diseases, actually, we've seen patients
do a remarkable job. Now, I would say, at
Google, we have always tried to provide the most
helpful answers to our users. And so with symptoms,
for example, we have the knowledge
cards that you've probably noticed that are telling
you about a disease with authoritative
content, like, trying to be clear in the
explanation of common symptoms and potential options
for treatment, but never crossing that
line and telling you what your own diagnosis might be. Now, with large
language models-- so our model, Gemini,
will also not tell you what your diagnosis will be. It will tell you, sorry,
I'm not a medical doctor. You should go and see a doctor. But you can get more helpful
answers if you're asking, what potential conditions
could explain this? And it will give you more
of the textbook answer. I like to think of
it as those family guide for health care, those-- I don't know, the big, thick
books that you might have, where you have small
children and you're trying to know what to do
in those particular cases. Well, it's that same level. If we believe that large
language models are going to be able to
provide diagnosis, we need to continue the research. And that's what we're
doing with our work with AMIE, the Articulate
Medical Intelligence Explorer. It's a research
project in which we are trying to see which
conversational abilities a large language model can
have to establish a diagnosis. So can it ask the
right question, the way a physician would do,
like dialoguing with a patient? HANNAH FRY: How close
are we to seeing a system like AMIE being used
actually in medical settings? JOELLE BARRAL: So we've
been working on this project for quite a while already. And our first research
papers were all based on research done
with patient actors and simulated scenarios. We're now doing a clinical
study under IRB approval with Harvard at the Beth
Israel Medical Center to see what happens, again, in
a very controlled environment, with physician supervision,
with this system. So that's our next step. Hard for me to
predict how long it is before such a system
would really help physicians in the clinic. But we are already seeing,
in parts of the world, similar systems
that are typically being used to answer low-risk
questions, if you wish, and that are always supervised. So there is a physician maybe
double-checking the answer within a period of time, a
short amount of time, like, say, 10 minutes of a model, or
15 minutes from a model, answering a patient. But you see how it's really
a step-by-step approach. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, absolutely. JOELLE BARRAL: And I think
that's very important, again. Because if you have a model that
says the right thing 9 out of 10 times, but the 10th, it's doing
something really bad, well, maybe it wasn't so good at
all for none of those cases. HANNAH FRY: The benefits
don't outweigh the costs. JOELLE BARRAL: Precisely. HANNAH FRY: That is
interesting, though. Because you're
right, that if you're talking to a real
physician, I mean, they will tell you
that patients don't come in with a sort of
very clear, refined list of relevant information for you. I mean, they'll come in and
say, oh, I don't feel so great. And it's like, it's your
job then to interrogate that and actually find out precisely
what's at the heart of it, which bits of information are
relevant and which bits aren't. That must be a very difficult
thing to mimic within an AI. JOELLE BARRAL: Indeed. And also, I like to often
think of the AI of tomorrow as something that will be like
the physician in your family. There's often this
physician in your family that gets asked all
questions about anything that has to do with health
care of all family members, all the cousins, and everyone. Even if they are
a dermatologist, they will be asked
cardiology questions, and they will help people
navigate the system, et cetera. But not all families
have physicians. And so I'd like to think that
the AI we'll build tomorrow will provide everyone
with that, the equivalent of a physician in your family. But the key element is that
that member of your family actually knows you, right? And they know you
on the long term. So they know if
you're very anxious. And when you're
saying that you have a bad headache for
the last three weeks, you've said that for
the last 20 years, and they can safely discard it. Or if you're calling them, but
you've actually never called them, they know
that it's something they should pay attention to. They will recognize
the tone of your voice, et cetera, which I
think makes this-- I give the example of
the dermatologist that ends up having to say
something about everything-- but pretty safe,
right, in the end. It's actually not going to
provide bad advice to someone that has a cardiac condition
because they know the person, and they will tell
them to actually seek cardiologist advice
at the right time. So we would want our AI
systems to do the same. But for that, it means they
need to know you enough. And it's not just very quickly
saying your latest symptoms and getting an answer. Those systems have to be built. HANNAH FRY: I guess one of
the differences of a physician in your family is
that they're not really prone to hallucinations. [LAUGHTER] JOELLE BARRAL: Some of them
might, but you're right. HANNAH FRY: Some of them might. But how do you create something
like that, when we are still in a world where generative AI
does have these hallucinations, or is forgetful about timelines,
or mistakes information-- all of the common mistakes that
you see in generative AI? JOELLE BARRAL: Yeah. So that's why you cannot just
take a large language model off the shelf and apply it in health
care and expect that to be acceptable. And I think we've done a lot
of work first with Med-PaLM. That was our first model
fine-tuned on a medical corpus. And we demonstrated
that it was doing better at answering medical license
exams than, initially, an average student and
then a panel of experts. And then we did Med Gemini. HANNAH FRY: What was Med Gemini? JOELLE BARRAL: Oh, Med Gemini is
our large-language-model Gemini, which I hope-- I know you've played with. HANNAH FRY: Hey, endlessly. JOELLE BARRAL: And we fine-tuned
it on a medical corpus. And so it's really
inheriting the long context of Gemini, its
reasoning capabilities, its native multi-modality. But on top of that, it has
seen medical data in a way that Gemini hadn't. And it's also being evaluated
for specific medical purposes. HANNAH FRY: There is this
other aspect of the human AI collaboration, though. I mean, if some of these tools
are designed for doctors, is there a risk that doctors, I
guess, lose some of their skills or start to become overly
reliant on these kind of models? JOELLE BARRAL: There's
always that risk, right? In health care, I
would say, though, that for me, we don't really
have a choice in the sense that we have a big shortage
of health care professionals in many parts of the world. So the question is,
how do we address that? How do we make sure
that people, globally, can be as healthy as possible
and don't suffer from things for which we have answers? There are a lot of
things for which we still don't have answers. But for a lot of others,
where medicine can actually provide an answer, I think
we have a responsibility to leverage the
technology we have to bring that to those people. Rather than over-reliance,
for me the question is, how are we going to train
the next generation, right? And what is actually-- HANNAH FRY: Of doctors. JOELLE BARRAL: Of doctors. It's true of doctors
within our conversation. It can be true of
other professions within the context of the
new era we're in with gen AI. But for doctors, there might be
things where actually the AI is really doing a really good job. And when it's not,
it's also telling you that it doesn't know, et cetera. So you can rely on the AI. And it's OK to not be
as good at those tasks that the AI is really
good at, because there are so many other things
that you need to learn and you need to do well. HANNAH FRY: So there
are some things, then, that you think the AI
just isn't going to touch. I mean, things like
empathy, for instance. JOELLE BARRAL: Well, actually,
that one is a good one because we always check that
our models have good bedside manners. And they actually do. They're not bad at all. They can adapt to
their audience in a way that few human beings can. They can leverage the right
language for a five-year-old, or a 70-year-old,
or a 40-year-old. And if you're not
a native speaker, they can speak in
your own language. So actually, when they're
judged on empathy, they actually do pretty well. HANNAH FRY: How on Earth do you
train it to be more empathic? JOELLE BARRAL: Well,
in the same way you train them for
everything else. They are based on a
lot of conversations that they've seen in
the training data. And if those conversations
are empathic, then they learn to also
leverage the same words, the same tone, et cetera. And you do need to do some time
to fine-tune them or provide them with more
specific examples, because not everything
on the web is empathic. HANNAH FRY: Do
you think, though, that there are some
aspects of medical care that really AI can't touch? JOELLE BARRAL: I've
built surgical robots. So even the haptics
and all of that, I tend to think that, at some
point, we will have ways. But today, whenever you
need a physical exam, like if you're checking
someone's stomach, and you-- a lot of things, you
absolutely need physicians. I paused because I
think every single time we say the technology will
never do this, we get wrong. And at some point,
things change in a way that, actually, they can also be
helpful in those circumstances. It's coming as something that
is augmenting physicians. It's not replacing them in all
of the tasks they do daily. I see AI much more
as the one paying the debt for what the digital
industry has done to physicians, which is asking them to
enter lots and lots of data in computers for years, changing
their job fairly drastically, making them miserable
in some cases. I do think that we see a lot
of burnout in the profession. And I'm hoping AI
contributes to bringing back the joy of practicing medicine. But to me, it's paying
that debt, right? It's like, finally,
with all of the data that physicians and
all their health care professionals have
taken so much time to enter, we are going to be able to
derive insights or knowledge and help them. HANNAH FRY: Here's why it
was all worth it, I guess. JOELLE BARRAL: Yes. HANNAH FRY: But that is
interesting listening to you talk about it, though. Because, I mean, so many of the
conversations that I get to have on this podcast are about, I
don't know, AGI and long-term-- these holistic
systems and advances towards completely doing things
in a different way than we always have. But the way that you're
describing your vision of this, it's almost like the AI here
is a tool that will change every aspect of medicine. But fundamentally, the idea of
a patient-doctor relationship is unchanged. JOELLE BARRAL: You're right. I think I might
be a little maybe more cautious than
what we're envisioning in other aspects of society. And it also depends,
again, where in the world we are envisioning that
impact of technology. Because I think that technology
will bring health care to parts of the world that probably
didn't have access to health care at all, or
only in a very limited way, in ways that we are
not yet envisioning. And that might be beyond
anything we've described today. But I'm also a bit skeptical
of health care being entirely revolutionized
overnight, and it will be completely different tomorrow
from how it looked yesterday. That being said, I'm also
absolutely blown away with models like AMIE. If you think about
it, you can now have a conversation with a
large language model that is very similar to the
conversation you would have with an incredibly
well-educated specialist, pulling knowledge from
all around the world. Meaning, this very small
clinical trial that happened in the '50s in some remote place
and was published back then, echoing some new things that are
starting to be seen somewhere else. Up until now, serendipity
sometimes played a very big role in, if you had a rare
condition, as to whether you would be treated or not. And now, with our
large language models, I think we're completely
changing that serendipity game. HANNAH FRY: It's always nice
to finish a podcast on a very positive and optimistic note. But I think there's a
lot to look forward to. JOELLE BARRAL: Absolutely. HANNAH FRY: Thank you. JOELLE BARRAL: Thank you. HANNAH FRY: I think
medicine is a special case. Because between
the false positives and the false negatives and,
crucially, the potential harms of either, this is something
that has a very high bar to get right. And I think there is something
reassuring about Joelle's no-nonsense determination to
take the scientific approach here, to carefully and
cautiously evaluate the benefit of using AI to
make sure that we end up with the best health care
outcomes for as many people as possible. You've been listening to "Google
DeepMind, The Podcast," with me, Professor Hannah Fry. If you enjoyed
that episode, then do subscribe to our
YouTube channel. You can also find us on your
favorite podcast platform. And we have plenty more episodes
on a whole range of topics to come, so do check
those out, too. See you next time. [MUSIC PLAYING]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: 78mEYaztGaw (https://youtu.be/78mEYaztGaw) ===


[MUSIC PLAYING] HANNAH FRY: Welcome to "Google
DeepMind-- the Podcast." I'm Professor Hannah Fry. Right, agents, they are
here, or almost here, and they are probably
all anyone is going to be talking about in 2025. But they are definitely not new. My guest on today's
episode is someone who last came on
the podcast in 2019 to talk to me about the
multi-agent system he was working on. It could beat the
professional StarCraft players at their own game,
and eventually went on to achieve Grandmaster status. But how have agents
evolved since then? What can they do now? How have the advances
in language models and multimodal AI change things? And how do you possibly go
about building something that can make autonomous
decisions on behalf of its user? Now, I should tell you, if
you want a primer on agents, you can watch our episode
with Frederic Besse that we recorded
over the summer. But for now, Oriol
Vinyals is Vice President of Drastic Research and
co-tech-lead of Gemini. And it's fair to say we've got
quite a lot to catch up on. Oriol, welcome back
to the podcast. ORIOL VINYALS: Hi,
thank you for having me. HANNAH FRY: What is
Drastic Research? ORIOL VINYALS:
Well, I keep telling my team they have
to think drastic, meaning don't just do
the incremental stuff that everyone is thinking about. Try to drastically think what
will happen in a few years time, and then try to
backport those ideas and then execute today
with that mindset in mind. So that's what drastic means. But yeah, it's a word
that I use a lot. HANNAH FRY: I think when
I last got to see you, you had been working
on an agent that could use a keyboard and a
mouse to do things draw pictures in Paint or play StarCraft. And, well, things have moved
on quite a bit since then. ORIOL VINYALS: So those
agents, at the time, you took sort of a very
generic set of principles, very simple principles in the
field of machine learning, and you would basically
specialize a model on one task. And what we were
doing at the time is have a curriculum of tasks
that were more and more and more difficult, right? So when we last spoke, for
instance, in video games, we were looking at
StarCraft, which is one of the most complex
modern strategy games out there. And of course,
DeepMind is notorious for having started the
trend with Atari, which is a fairly simple game of
left, right, hit the paddle and hit the ball and off you go. So that is what the
algorithms themselves, we tried to push for them to be
very general so we can keep climbing this ladder of
difficulty, curriculum of games, and doing more and
more complex things. And right now what
has happened is even the models we train are broadly
applicable to many more things than the models we
developed back then were. So think about the process of
creating this digital brain hasn't changed that much. But what that brain
was able to do was reasonably narrow,
although very complex, like playing StarCraft
or playing Go. Right now, these models can
do quite a lot more broad applications and, of course,
talking to us, chatbots, et cetera, et cetera. HANNAH FRY: So back then,
reinforcement learning was your main lever, I guess. How different are things now? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, so
algorithmically, actually, the process of AlphaGo and
actually AlphaStar, those two had the same set of sequence
of algorithms applied to creating this digital brain. And it's not actually
that different from how current large language
models or multimodal models are created today. There's two basic
steps that have been pretty constant
throughout many years in many of the projects
that we've worked on, which we can call the first
one pretraining or imitation learning. That is, you start
with random weights, you have an algorithm that will
try to imitate lots of data that humans have created
to either play a game or, in this case, all of the
internet, all of the knowledge available to us. And in that first
stage, you just adapt the weights to try to
imitate that data as well as possible. HANNAH FRY: And these
weights are, essentially inside each of the neurons
is a series of numbers that kind of describes how it's
connected to everything else? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah,
so basically there are units of computations
that are neurons. And the connections
between neurons are what actually
you have as weights. So you can imagine
that there's a neuron, there's a few neurons
connected to it. And you're basically
adding all the activations from the incoming neurons there
multiplied by the weights. And those weights are the
only things that move. And the inputs
excite the neurons. It's pretty much how a brain
works with some freedom of, yeah, creativity. HANNAH FRY: OK, if we
were to do an analogy, it's almost like you've got
the neurons and you're like, water is flowing through
it and the weights is like the width of the
pipes between the neurons? ORIOL VINYALS:
Yeah, that's right. And then you can imagine having
millions of neurons and billions or even trillions of pipes. And that is what we spend
most to compute actually training these models,
especially language models, is in this pretraining
or imitating all the data that we have available to us. HANNAH FRY: OK, so you've
now got this gigantic network with loads of pipes going
between all the neurons. And that's your
imitation phase done. Next bit, if you were doing,
say, AlphaGo or AlphaZero, you would then get
it to play itself. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah,
so this model now is reasonably good at playing
moves that look human-like. So that means, of
course, the sentences are very plausible
sentences in English. Or if it was playing a game, it
would click things reasonably to move pieces on the
board and whatnot. But what this model
hasn't done is learn that these
actions yield reward. That's the bit of reinforcement
learning or post-training, which is the second
phase of training. So you can write a
poem by just, hey, just how does a poem on the
internet look like on average? But then the question is, well,
I want only the good poems. So how can I further adjust
these pipes based on a signal that now, having written
now a whole poem, would give a score
of 0 or 1, let's say. And if it's a mediocre
poem, you get a 0. If it's a good
poem, you get a 1. Again, for a game
analogy, which is what we use reinforcement
learning traditionally, if you win at the game, you get a 1. If you lose, you get a 0. And then you further
adjust the weights. But now, instead of
imitating humans, you're just saying
forget, I want to go beyond what
humans could do and try to really get all my
poems to be the perfect poem or all my chess games
to be the perfect game. And in language models,
this second phase, which is reinforcement
learning post-training, tends to be fairly short-lived
because we do not have access to super clean reward
as you've won the game or you lost the
game, when you do self-play in traditional
board games, for example. HANNAH FRY: So once
that's done, that's all the stuff that goes
on behind the scenes. And then you're like,
hold it right there. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: Stay exactly
where you are, everybody. We're going to take just
basically a snapshot of this entire network, and
that is what you actually get to access as a user. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, so now
this amazing process finished. These weights are
super precious, right? So this configuration
you found, you've really spent months to finesse
it, to tweak everything. And now you will
never move it anymore. So training is over. You're not changing the
configuration anymore. You might want to make
it super efficient. So say you find that, oh, look,
this neuron is not that useful. It's not used for anything. You remove it, so everything
becomes faster and cheaper to run it at scale. And then as a user, you
just get the same weights. Everyone gets the same
weights we've trained. That's what we call
Gemini 1.5 Flash. That just means a
set of weights that are frozen, will
not change, will not further train or anything. So those two steps
actually pretty much are identical from
AlphaGo to AlphaStar to current large
language models. And of course, there's
details that matter. And the field has
evolved, certainly, but the principle is pretty
much unchanged, actually. HANNAH FRY: Because under
the hood, as it were, there are differences between-- I don't know, I'm
thinking like DQN here, which was the Atari example,
or the types of algorithms that are used in AlphaGo or then
again, in the large language models, the architecture
is different, right? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, so
there's a few components that go into then what
the digital brain is. One is the architecture. So there are these
neural networks. Now we have the transformers,
which we certainly didn't have back in the DQN days. So there's always some
sort of breakthroughs in architectures that are better
at learning from the data. But then from
transformers to today, it's almost all
about little tweaks. Even if you look
at AlphaFold, which also is fueled by a transformer,
what the teams do for years sometimes is just to
find little tweaks on, hey, let's remove
this set of neurons, let's add another layer,
let's make this a bit wider. So the brain shape
changes a little bit, and that makes it or
breaks it sometimes, in terms of the
performance achieved. HANNAH FRY: So if these
are all the things that have been achieved so far,
the goal, as I understand it, is to create more
agentic behavior, to get these things to
make autonomous decisions. How did these help
to achieve that end? ORIOL VINYALS:
Yeah, so let's zoom in a little bit on
the current trend. We call it large language
models, but they're multimodal. I think we had an episode
earlier covering heavily the multimodality
aspect, how good it is to be able
to add an image, then ask something, a
follow-up question, and so on. So this score, we
will still improve it, this set of weights that
do these amazing inferences about the input. What's this image about? What's the user asking? Can I write a better poem? Can I just make it
longer or whatever? Like all these interactions we
all get to play with these days. But this is just a component. And we can think, hey,
this is now our CPU. And we can add more
to it, around it. What if the model could go
off and do research for you, for example? One example, we were
already thinking about that back in the day, I
could ask a model, a language model or a visual
language model to learn to play the game of StarCraft. That's a very different approach
to say, create one agent that does play the game. In this other example, it
could go online, watch videos about the game. It could, of course,
download the game to start interacting with it
to learn, oh, yeah, I know, I get it. Do research online, go to
forums, read the forums. Go play and figure out that
it's weak at this thing and improve and so on. And after, literally,
it could be weeks, it sends you an email that says,
I now know how to play the game. Let's play. That's not a reality
that's that far away. But these models all of a
sudden actually do something, take some actions,
and learn anything new that is available to them. And that's pretty
powerful to think about. It's what pushes the
generality the most. And that's what makes the
AGI, as many people call it, feel closer. HANNAH FRY: So if I
understand it correctly then, it's almost like
the stuff that we have at the moment, the
large language models, the multimodal models,
whatever you want to call them, that's the central core. But the next step is
that you build stuff on top of that central
core, that it can go off and take off the stabilizers
and go off and do its own thing. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, exactly. If it has access to
all the knowledge and it can use its time to
do some proper research, write hypotheses,
write some code and so on, and take its time to
really answer very, very, very complex questions, then,
yeah, the possibilities now have broadened
quite drastically. Although of course,
we're not going to need that for everything. I mean, if we ask a question
like, hey, I like rice. What should I prepare tonight? Probably no need to do a very
deep dive into thinking or just going off for three weeks. Then you'll probably not be very
happy about the waiting time, right? But I think to
push the frontier, you're giving a digital body
to the computer so it can not only just think and give an
instruction or a word output, but it can also go off
and do things online or on documents that you
might upload or whatever. And ask very, very complex
questions and personalized to you, et cetera, et cetera. HANNAH FRY: I like that idea,
this central core and then you're giving it a digital body. You've got the electric
brain, and now you're giving it a digital body. ORIOL VINYALS: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: OK, so in
terms of the electric brain and in terms of this
core, this processor, let me just ask you
a bit about that. I guess we should be thinking
about Gemini here, right? ORIOL VINYALS: Mm-hmm. HANNAH FRY: Which is essentially
what we're talking about, the multimodal model
that you guys have. I know that one of the
big ideas for large models was just to scale it up, to
get them bigger and bigger and bigger and
bigger and bigger. Do you think that the results
that we've seen from scaling have plateaued by now? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, it's
a very important question. We have studied how as you
make the models larger, that is how many neurons
literally these models have, how do they become
better at certain tasks that we have clear metrics
from the whole machine learning community? For example, one that is
very simple to understand is machine translation. So how good the models
are at translating between two languages
as you scale, as you go from
millions to billions to potentially
trillions of neurons, you can see the
performance keep improving. Now, even when you
do those studies, one trick is that
it looks linear, but you have to plot
logarithmic axis. What that means in lay
terms is that, let's say from the last three years,
we had some improvement, you shouldn't expect
the same improvement in the next three years. It's actually exponentially
hard to get there. So that means the
compute investment, which of course, also advances
at the super linear rate, but perhaps not as good as
these sort of trends suggest, you would just see some
diminishing returns. Because simply
scaling the x-axis, the number of parameters, you
need to go 10x to see the same improvement. And that just creates
some pressure to, hey, maybe we
can't scale as much and we need to think
about other ways to scale to make
the models better. HANNAH FRY: The example
I give to my students is like, if you've got a
room that's really messy, the first 10 minutes
that you spend tidying, it's going to make a
massive difference. You pick up all
the dirty plates, put away all the
dirty washing, fine. But once you're like 7 hours
in, that extra 10 minutes, it's not going to make
any difference at all. And that's essentially
where we are, right? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, that's
exactly a very good analogy. And in fact, that
analogy can even apply to then the
performance of the models. Even if you have extremely
good performance, if you want these models
to be 100% factual, they will never
make something up-- we know that if you probe them,
you can make them say some things that are not real-- even that last mile
also is super hard, which creates some interesting
challenges to deploy them at scale. HANNAH FRY: So OK,
I hear what you're saying about how there's
diminishing returns in all of this. But in terms of how you
make these things better, how you make these
models better, is it just data,
computational power, and size? Are those the only things, the
levers that you have to pull? ORIOL VINYALS:
Yeah, so certainly, if you froze the
architecture, let's say for the next year,
no innovation, we just scale because there's
better hardware coming out-- HANNAH FRY: Just
make it bigger, yeah. ORIOL VINYALS: --make it
bigger, that certainly would have a trend
that would look OK. But what's happened,
and certainly in Gemini, we have other innovations,
other tricks, techniques, details from how to order
the data that you present the model with, to the
details of the architecture, to how to run the training
process, how long to run it for. What kind of data do we
actually present the model? How do we filter? Do we present more data that's
high quality, less data that's low quality? All sorts of different what
we call hyperparameters and, of course other
algorithmic advances, we also investigate
fairly carefully. Because the process of
training a model is expensive. So we need to be extremely
careful with piling up innovation so that
eventually when we are ready, we have enough innovation. And also probably we'll
have a better scale to run for the next
iteration of models. We run it, and then we
get algorithmic, not only breakthroughs
through data and compute. HANNAH FRY: I guess the other
thing about this scaling stuff is that there's no limit,
really, to the number of nodes that you can put in. Maybe there's no
limit, in theory, to the computational
power that you put in. But there is a limit to the
data that you can put in. There's a limit to the number of
human words that are out there. ORIOL VINYALS: Good point. So I think there is
a limit on the nodes. Because how you scale
these models is, well, they don't fit on one
single chip, hardware chip. So now you have a mesh of
chips that are communicating. There's certain limits
like speed of light, et cetera, et cetera. HANNAH FRY: [LAUGHS] ORIOL VINYALS: So
there starts to be a time where the efficiency
of training such a big model is also just not worth it,
even from a utilization of the hardware at your
disposal, but very good point. The other bit that is critical
on this pretraining, imitate all the data, is that
we do not have what we call infinite data regime. There's finite data. And so as soon as
the models need to-- you can think, well, let's
train on all the data. If you want to train-- HANNAH FRY: Everything
humans have ever read-- ORIOL VINYALS: Everything. HANNAH FRY: --or written. ORIOL VINYALS: All
of the internet. So we're just starting to think,
OK, we're running out of data. There are techniques
like synthetic data. Can we write or rewrite existing
data in many different ways? I mean, languages would be
obvious ways to think, hey, you could write the internet. It's mostly in
English, I mean, 60%. I don't know what's
the exact percentage. But there are ways to
rewrite the same knowledge in different ways. We're exploring those. That's kind of a research
area that many people are starting to invest. Because if you run out
of data, the scaling laws punish you even more. HANNAH FRY: So for
example, then, you could get Gemini to write its
own version of the internet, and then use that to train
a new version of Gemini? ORIOL VINYALS: Yes. HANNAH FRY: Is there
a danger, though, that if you start feeding in
the output of the same model, that you can end up creating
these little, well, unhelpful feedback loops? ORIOL VINYALS:
They certainly can do some interesting
experiments to test ideas like this one you
just mentioned. And indeed, that is, on the
surface, not a good idea. The model suffers if you
just ask it to recreate all of the internet. And indeed, a priori
from information an content point of
view, look, this data set has the information that
it has, how could you create new information? I don't know. These ideas might
help a little bit because there's machine
learning deficiencies that we're not at that
fundamental ability to extract all the information
truly from the internet. We have good algorithms,
but they're not perfect. HANNAH FRY: Well, yeah. ORIOL VINYALS: So
we'll see, yeah. HANNAH FRY: I guess I just want
to think about that a little bit more because it's a
really interesting idea. Because of course, naively, if
you did it without thinking, then it's like, the new version
would have the biases in it. And then the new version on top
of that would be more biased. And you'd end up sort
of spiraling away from the original human one. But then what
you're saying is as though in the original
human internet is sort of embedded these
conceptual connections. And if you can extract those-- I'm thinking almost like
E equals mc squared. If you can find the E equals
mc squared for human concepts and then just generate
new data using that alone, then that seems more realistic. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, exactly. And I think that's where
you start hitting-- I mean, are these
language models just repeating
what's online and not being able to
create anything new? Or are they learning
a world model truly that you can then from the
principles it extracts, possibly generalize beyond
what the data has? And under the more
optimistic version, which I tend to believe more,
we can push the limits of data little bit more than the
current limits that we have. That being said, there
are some data sources that we haven't quite seen a
breakthrough, like video data. There's a lot of it. And we haven't
quite seen a moment of take all the video
data where you probably can derive a lot of knowledge,
a lot of laws of physics, a lot of how the world
works, even if there are no words associated with
the videos necessarily, and extract that knowledge. Even that I don't think we
tapped into that source. HANNAH FRY: And it
doesn't work that way? ORIOL VINYALS: I mean-- HANNAH FRY: Or you don't know? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, it
feels like it should, even how we learn. There's some language
learning in the early days, but we learn by also observing
three dimensions and so on and so forth. So there probably
is more knowledge that we haven't extracted. What obviously we've
gotten pretty well at, and you can see by
testing the models, is connecting the concepts
present in the video. And then you can do
amazing things like, hey, take this full hour
video and just extract me three interesting moments. But the model itself, has
it actually used that-- HANNAH FRY: Oh, yeah. ORIOL VINYALS:
--information directly? Probably not. HANNAH FRY: Oh, I
like this so much. We were talking to Jeff
about with multimodal models, if you get these
models to just watch all of the videos that
have ever been created, can it quite literally extract
what gravity means as a concept? But what you're describing
here, if I understand it, is that at the moment, it can
tell you what's in the video that it's seen, but
it can't then say, and E equals mc squared. Or if you showed it
pictures of the night sky, it wouldn't suddenly be able
to predict the planetary motion in the same way that
human astronomers did. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, exactly. The shortcut we're
taking here is that the data we train when we
train on images and/or videos, we almost always have
a text representation associated with that modality. So it could be a
caption explaining what this image has
or this video has and so on and so forth. And, of course, then
it's incredible, right? You can put a
picture of homework and with a little
drawing conceptual and it will connect and do quite
a lot of good logic just based on that. But what I'm saying
here is, could I just take videos, no
language, and then train a model to then understand
what's happening? Maybe even, in a way,
derive a language-- it's obviously not going
to be our language-- and extract those concepts. And that has not happened. And it probably will. HANNAH FRY: Just
going back to what you said at the beginning
about those two phases to basically all the models
that the DeepMind have built. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: The
imitation phase, which is what we've been
talking about right here, but then the reinforcement
learning phase on top. And I know that AlphaGo
and AlphaZero and many more got better by
playing themselves. Does that apply here as well? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, that's one
of the main open challenges-- scaling, not only pretraining
but postraining or reinforcement learning. So the beauty about
reinforcement learning in games is that there is a set
of rules that are coded. And if you've won,
you know you've won. There is kind of a program
that if you play chess and you've won, it
will check everything. OK, that's a check mate. Congratulations,
you've won the game. HANNAH FRY: A clear
metric of success. ORIOL VINYALS: A clear metric. Now, in language, much trickier. Is this a better poem than this? Good luck discussing
this, even amongst us. So the generality again makes
computing exactness very hard. Is this a better
summary of the movie? Is this the most interesting
bit of this video? It's very hard to quantify. But we can try, and we do try. You train a model, and based
on some human preferences, roughly you just say, OK,
try to now generalize. So if I ask a model to
criticize its own output, it's not going to do that bad. It's going to be good maybe
80% of the time, which is not terrible. But it can give you some signal. But at that point, you
start saying, well, now you climb this metric. You have this imperfect
way to assess performance. But now we're going
to start training against this reward
that is not perfect. What the model is
going to do is exploit the weaknesses of the reward. Maybe using the chess example,
imagine that I had a bug, and if a pawn is in a certain
position, you always win. And it's a position that
no one would play ever. So maybe no one
knows this exists. But now you ask an
algorithm to please explore everything
and try to discover how to win at this game. All of a sudden, you're
going to find, hey, oh, if I move the first
pawn to this position, no one plays this
opening, You've. Won the game. Certainly, you the algorithm
has nailed the game. And then a researcher goes
and sees how you play chess, and it's just terrible. HANNAH FRY: Naughty
AI, basically that's what we're talking about. ORIOL VINYALS: So
that's the challenge. Basically you're
finding exploits rather than really learning what
a good poem means truthfully. HANNAH FRY: Can you not
just add in another player? So add in another model,
which is the ultimate arbiter? ORIOL VINYALS: Good suggestion,
but then the problem is, how do you train that model? We have only a finite
notion of what's a good poem by some experts
that we might ask, hey, compare these two poems and so on. So there's just a
limited amount of data we have to train these arbiters. So the ground truth
might be to ask someone that is the expert, of course. And if we could, we would. But that's not scalable. Then imagine how slow
it would be to say, OK, I have a parameter update
that in three seconds, I found. Now please review these
10,000 things by an expert. Because that's the
source of truth. And we don't have enough data
to train a good enough reward model. So again, there are some ideas. But intuitively, you
clearly understand, but the problem is we don't
have access to the ground truth. HANNAH FRY: That's it. It's like you're feeling around
in the dark with oven gloves on. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: [LAUGHS] ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: [LAUGHS] You're not
even completely sure that there are solid objects-- ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: --to grab onto. OK, so if that's the core then,
that's the electronic brain, and now we're building the
digital body, what kind of capabilities do you want
that digital body to have, like reasoning, for example? Because there's been
quite a lot of work on that too, hasn't there? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, so when
you start thinking, well, what are the main
surfaces that we would be able to give these models
limited access to so they can see beyond what's in their
weights, which are frozen, to be able to gather knowledge
or do maybe something a bit more complex than just predicting the
next word from just what they have in context, plus what
they have in their weights? And so obvious things
that come to mind is giving them access
to a search engine. That's what we do
very well at Google. Another one is to
give them the ability to run the code they write. And then, of course, maybe
even more broadly, that could be more general is
giving them the ability to maybe interact with a browser
that has access to the internet. With all of these,
you always have to be careful to sand box,
that just means protect these environments so that the
models, even if they're not that advanced, wouldn't do
something that is unintended. So there's the whole
safety aspect of this that as you move
beyond the model, it starts to be
quite interesting. But if we're just dreaming
what would be possible, by having these tools available
to the models, all of a sudden they can start doing
much more advanced things beyond what was the training
corpus that we used at the time. They can rely on the
latest news to explain us or to summarize what
was the main thing yesterday that happened. All these kind of things, you
need to give them these tools. HANNAH FRY: OK, so how does
reasoning fit into all of this then? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, reasoning
is interesting, right? So what I described
could be summarized as, hey, I want to know
what happened yesterday, then I could just say,
look, maybe personalize it a little bit. So I could describe in words,
I could say, hey hey, model, I'm Oriol, I'm interested
in this and that. My political views
are this or that. Give me a positive take
on the news yesterday. And the model would probably
search, retrieve all the news, and then, given what
I asked it to do, just do it in a way that I
like and I find it enjoyable. Maybe if I don't like
it, I can even go and then say, I didn't like
this or this is not a good joke. And then we could iterate a
little bit in a conversation. Now, reasoning is a bit of
a different axis of scaling. And so you could
imagine the model deciding what kind
of intermediate steps to do to give me
a better answer. So imagine there's
100 news outlets that Google search retrieves. Maybe the model
decides, hey, I'm just not going to
read this and just try to summarize
it all at once, I'm going to summarize each
of the 100 articles first. So that means the
model decided I'm going to write a summary
for each of the 100 pages. I'm going to write it not
to the user, to myself. And now it has
hundreds summaries. And maybe the next
step it decides to do is, I'm going to
group these by topics. Then it decides one of the
articles looks suspicious, so maybe it goes online
and checks if in any forums someone discusses
like, oh, this might be not truthful because of the
author and so on and so forth. So it can do a lot of
steps to do research. And it could do this
for quite a while. And only when the
model says, well, I think now I have a much
better quality answer, then it will give you
the few-word summary. But now it had all this time
to do much more processing on the information that
was available to it. And that inference
time compute, we hope that the more time
we give to the model, the better it's
going to summarize the news, the better it's
going to write a poem, the better it's going
to, of course, do math. But that's certainly
another axis of scaling which we're starting to quite
unlock, we hope to unlock. And again, we'll break a bit of
the scaling laws and the limits that we see in pure pretraining. HANNAH FRY: Does this
also include planning? Could it look at your calendar,
work out when your payday was, maybe know that the January
sales are coming up soon, and tell you to postpone booking
your holiday for a few days? ORIOL VINYALS: That
can get very complex, but of course, when you factor
in things like personalization and when to do things because
of all the other things that are ongoing, you have
more sources of information. You need to collect them and
then give the best answer. And it stops being what
color is the sky, which is not that simple to answer. I was thinking
about that example. We had a very early paper
where we have that example, as, oh, something that
language models can do. Amazing, right? You don't program them to
answer, but they answer. But then, actually
even the answer is quite nuanced if you
start thinking, oh, yeah, planets, and what
time of the day? Is it cloudy or not? So the thinking
and the planning, yeah, that's something
that these models can do. HANNAH FRY: I'm reminded, I
had a conversation with Dennis probably back in 2019. And he was talking about
the Kahneman and Tversky ideas of how the human brain has
almost two systems of thinking, the sort of quick,
instinctive, intuition based, and then the much slower,
calculated, the way that you do maths and chess. And Demis was saying
that that second one has been traditionally easier
for us to do with computers. But now we're seeing the much
quicker instinctive stuff. But you're sort of talking about
putting the two together, right? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, right. Probably what Demis
was talking about is systems too, which is indeed
one that you reflect a bit more. And in games it's very clear. You just could say, oh, this
move feels right, you just move. But if you think and ponder,
you might get to a better move. The challenge is
that, now because we are in such general
direction-- these models can do anything, anything, literally. You just do whatever
you want, upload an image, talk about the news. So what it means
to have this deeper thinking is so
domain specific that, how are you going to do that? And there's a few answers. But the one I like is
like, well, these models are very general. To add the ability
to think on top of a very general
set of capabilities, you probably need a
general way to think. And so you use the model
itself to generate how it should think about anything. And the model will
come up with, oh, I'm going to summarize each article. I'm going to do this
and that and that. And it is not us programming it. That's a very deep insight. Now is it the only way to do it
and is it the best way to do it? Early days. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. ORIOL VINYALS: Five years. We'll see. HANNAH FRY: [LAUGHS] Exactly,
I'll talk to you in 2029. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: OK, I'm
thinking now though also about lots of the things
that felt very important back, five years ago. And a lot of it was about
inspiration from neuroscience. So I suppose in a
way here, you're talking about planning
and reasoning. But memory was the
other really big one. And has that come through? People talk about long context
and short context a lot. I suppose that is working
memory in a way, isn't it? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah,
there's techniques that are out there that you
can apply to a language model. There are at the
very least three. And they're reasonably
simple to explain. The first way in which
we have a system that memorizes all of the internet
is by literally doing the pretraining step. That's literally a
memorization step in a particular format, which
is we have these weights, they're random, and
then we assemble them in these amazing architectures. Now, the second level is
maybe I explained a little bit how you would give the tool of
a search engine such as Google to the model. That, you could claim,
is what neuroscientists would call episodic
memory, which, as a human, maybe it's like we have these
memories from a long time ago. They're not very precise. So they tend to be
a bit more fuzzy. If I have to think, oh, what
was my first day at Google? I remember bits and pieces,
being in a room or someone I met or whatnot. HANNAH FRY: The gist. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah,
the gist, right? Now, interestingly,
these models maybe don't have that limitation. You can literally get an article
written many years ago online, and it's going to have
all the images, everything will be perfect,
reconstructed perfectly. So that second mode called
episodic memory, clearly we're seeing that when you
integrate especially powerful search engines into our models. And then the third
one is what you could call working memory, which
actually the whole of thinking that I described is one of. If we take every news
article, but then we want to create summaries, find
how they relate to each other, criticize some of
them, this starts to combine working
memory, meaning I'm going to have a scratchpad
of the summaries, the issues that I think I'm finding. And that, when we call
short or long context, generally, we mean this last
bit, the working memory, whether you have a thousand
tokens, which means I couldn't possibly do much. I can retrieve articles. It's already over
thousand words. Not much I can do
to summarize them. Or it can be massive,
in which case you have many more possibilities
to do reasoning on top of that, and so on and so forth. And so one of the
breakthroughs of the year, actually, we're still in 2024. HANNAH FRY: Just. ORIOL VINYALS: Yes,
but it was just to enable millions
of tokens in context, which enables many things. You can retrieve
something from the past, but then bring it
forward and then do a very detailed analysis. That's a bit of the examples
of, we have a movie, we can upload a movie
or some very long video and start doing summarization. The fact we upload it
is more episodic memory, but then now we
have it in memory. It all fits in memory. We can do quite a lot of
associations within each frame, each object in the movie,
and so on and so forth. HANNAH FRY: Is a longer
context window better always? Because I'm just
thinking about, I don't know how much you guys
are still using neuroscience as an inspiration for
what you're doing. But the human memory, there's
a limit to the working memory. There's certainly some
times where you're like, my brain is full and I'm done. ORIOL VINYALS: Sometimes
brain is an inspiration, but computers certainly
have advantages. We should build on
its strengths, right? So perhaps the fact that they
can have literally in memory every Wikipedia
article, whatever it is, we can't, but if the model
can, well, there you go. You have new capabilities. But also, it might be
too confusing to have too much information even
for these neural networks. So it might be a good
idea to compress. So that's where
you probably want to push for getting some
inspiration for how we might do what we do, which
is quite amazing, in terms of memory
retrieval and so on. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. This is why you're leading
up Drastic Research. ORIOL VINYALS: Yes. What we want to
do with the models should be definitely
inspiring and forward looking. And then what are the main
limits of the technology? And then try to, of
course, place the bets and inspire the teams
to finding solutions around the critical components. HANNAH FRY: But some of the
bets that you've already made have come off. I know there's been
a big announcement of a dizzying number
of new features that have just come out. Can we talk through
some of them? But then maybe also, talk to
me about the different skills that we've already
spoken about and how they appear in each of these. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, so we
have quite a few systems around our best Gemini models. So one of the things that
we've done is update to 2.0. We're seeing a
generational leap. Even if you say, look,
let's not scale anymore, can we get better quality? So we've done it sort of again. These models are
faster, they're cheaper, and they're actually better. HANNAH FRY: Basically,
Gemini has got better. That's it. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, Gemini
has got better, but not only because we scaled. HANNAH FRY: Sure. ORIOL VINYALS: That's
one of the main messages. HANNAH FRY: Tell me more
about the agentic capabilities that you've brought to Gemini. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, so we're
releasing a companion in Chrome where you can just
type to do a task that maybe some of
these tasks are tricky. Because I partly enjoy them, but
also I partly don't like them. So I'm thinking now very
clearly about trips. So you travel and you look for
hotels or flights or whatnot, and a lot of it feels like, oh,
I wish this could be automated. But at the same
time, I wouldn't just want to not be part
of this journey. So I guess the kind of
thing we're releasing is something that hopefully
will automate parts of the more trivial steps or
repeated or things that need automation
because I can't be bothered to click everything. So we're adding an agent that
you can ask it to do something for you, and then it's going
to, again, through thinking and through acting on the
basic clicking on links and so on, try to
solve the task for you. And that's quite an exciting,
both research challenge, opportunity. Because it's a very general
environment for a very general agent and model, ultimately. And some examples that we've had
again in the early prototypes, we can ask to play a game,
which of course, goes back to the roots of
DeepMind, on the browser. And it did OK. It finds a website, it
starts playing the game. It's kind of a cool connection
to the more general you are, then the more you can
treat environments where you had specialization
in the past, as now, oh, I just can
type it and it just goes and learn to
play this game. We're not quite
there, but this is a glimpse of maybe
where we could go with this kind of technology. HANNAH FRY: You're right
that it does really bring us back to that
thing that you were doing so many years ago, which
was something that could use a keyboard and a mouse. It's a really similar thing. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, even
the actions are very similar. They understand the
screen and, given what you ask, where would
you click and so on, that's the same sort of actions
even that very general games you would have to interact with. The difference is the
goal there is narrow. It's just one game and
the same kind of screens. Whereas here, it's the whole
web, which is pretty vast. HANNAH FRY: Well, OK. But then so I'm sort of
imagining what you could do now. Could it look in your calendar? Could you say, I want to
go on holiday next year, and it could look
in your calendar and work out when
the best week was, know your budget, et cetera,
et cetera, et cetera? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah,
so these models are not far from being
able to automate this. So now it's a matter of making
it better, making it safe. There's a lot of steps. But if you just fast
forward, anything a human can do on a
browser, these things can do in principle. And then if you make
them really understand what you want and really
good through thinking and other techniques, they'll
get better and better. And they'll be probably
faster and maybe in some cases much better than
you at doing those. So that's the dream. And these are
super early stages, but it's also super exciting. And I think certainly
next year, we're going to see a lot
of experimentation around this idea of intersecting
language models agentically with browser or
computers more generally. HANNAH FRY: How about coding? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, coding
is a great one as well. We are also releasing tools
for software engineering, which of course, they generally
require not only, hey, here is a perfect description
of a puzzle about coding and please write me the code. And by the way, I
know how to test it. It's more iterative. You have to write code and run
the code and so on and so forth. So we are putting that
capability, as well, forward from an agentic point of view. Games are very important. And of course, that
was a means to an end to develop powerful algorithms. But it's also very
interesting to think about how these very
powerful multimodal models start to understand games
and can aid users to entertain doing a game session,
give them advice, or tell a joke about the
game, or whatnot. So we're also experimenting with
this sort of game companion. HANNAH FRY: OK,
all of these things that you're talking
about, this is sounding very close
to intelligence that is quite general. Are we getting close to AGI? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah,
this is a good question. Look, I was thinking about
this earlier this week. If 10 years ago, 5
years ago even, I would have been given
the models today, and I would say, look, there's
a secret lab, this is a model, play with it and tell me if
you think this is actually close to a general intelligence;
I would have claimed, oh, yeah, that comes from a
future where AGI basically either has happened or I can see
that this is very close to it. So the closer you are,
the more you find, oh, but it hallucinates. Of course, that's
very important. But I think, just
zooming out, it just feels like, OK, it's
getting pretty close. HANNAH FRY: But then
DeepMind's mission statement, solve intelligence, that
sort of intelligence, super intelligence,
something that surpasses human intelligence,
do you think that scaling is enough to get us there? Or do you think that
we need something else? ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah,
Google DeepMind has this mission to obviously
intersect intelligence with science to
push the boundaries. And we've seen a good example
very recently, of course, with AlphaFold. So in that sense, from
a domains perspective, we honestly have
seen some examples already of narrow but
super intelligent system. AlphaFold was only doing that. And I think probably
that's the domains to think about where
we're going to start seeing super intelligence,
even from the general sort of capabilities
these models have. You might need to do
some specialization. And again, it might be worth it. Was it worth it to
solve protein folding? Absolutely, right? But I think that's
a good test to use. And we are very well positioned. Because we, of course,
have the whole science team and so on working on very
interesting problems. Now, if you take
the language models and you start
thinking about agents, putting them in
environments that could be more about science,
simulation, theorem provers, and so on, will
something very discrete be needed to enable
other breakthroughs? I would say probably not. Without another
transformer-like breakthrough, perhaps, feels like
we're going to start seeing more examples of, oh my
god, yeah, like in math now, it just discovers new
theorems that mathematicians find interesting. And it happened by just, of
course, very good execution plus scaling up of some of the
ideas and so on and so forth. HANNAH FRY: It is interesting,
though, that the first dominoes to fall are the ones which
have a ground truth-- ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: --like
science, as you describe. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah. Although, yeah, science, it
depends which sciences might have ground truth, I suppose. HANNAH FRY: Protein
folding, definitely. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, it's true. I'm hoping we also
see some other ways to advance in a superhuman way. You could imagine having a
brainstorming scientific advisor that is powered by one
of these powerful models. And more than it
discovers something or it proves something new, it
just challenges your assumptions and it makes you think
out of the box in a way that, then, my creativity
sort of gets me to a place I couldn't have gone. Then you would call that
superhuman in some ways as well. So I think those are
definitely not out of scope and much harder to
also, of course, think of how do you
reward that behavior. HANNAH FRY: Absolutely
fascinating. There was definitely a lot
of drastic stuff in there. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah. Yes. HANNAH FRY: Thank you
so much for joining me. ORIOL VINYALS: Yeah, likewise. Thanks, pleasure. See you in five years. HANNAH FRY: [LAUGHS] I think
there was this real theme that emerged from that conversation,
at least for me anyway, which was this
idea of generality. And if you think about it, there
is this generality in the way that intelligence
advances knowledge. Like those old astronomers
like Copernicus, they were assessing lots of
data from observing the sky and using that to extract a
model of the solar system. But in the case of AlphaGo,
it was observing games of Go to extract a model for the
best possible way to play. And now, somewhere
embedded in everything that has ever been
created by humans is this model, this
underlying truth of how we experience reality. And the model that we're
looking for, of course, it's never going to be
as neat as heliocentrism. But that model does seem
to be in there, hidden among the frozen
weights of Gemini. Now, if that's what
we've done so far, the next phase is to try
and use those general ideas to extract a model of
human preferences, too. And that is, of course,
a lot, lot harder. But if we succeed, it might just
get us to a more general form of intelligence, too, AGI. Now, if you found this
conversation interesting, I think it's worth
also checking out the episodes I
did with Jeff Dean on, among other things,
scaling, and Iason Gabriel on the ethics of AI agents. Or if you want to dig a bit
deeper into the development of Gemini 2.0, then you can
check out the latest episode of the new "Google
AI Release Notes" podcast with host
Logan Kilpatrick. This and other
episodes can be found wherever you get your podcasts. Until next time. [MUSIC PLAYING]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: nQKmVhLIGcs (https://youtu.be/nQKmVhLIGcs) ===


HANNAH FRY: Hello, and welcome
to the Google DeepMind Podcast with me, Professor Hannah Fry. Now, those of you
who are watching will notice that we are
not in the studio today, and that is because we
are backstage at the AI for Science Forum, a
very special event that has been co-hosted between
the Royal Society and Google DeepMind. And as part of the day,
I had the opportunity to speak to Demis Hassabis
on stage, to interview him, and we thought that you might
like to hear that conversation. So we have included it
here as a special episode. And then even more
special than that, as though one Nobel
laureate wasn't enough, we have three further
Nobel laureates joining me on stage for an
extended panel for you to enjoy. [MUSIC PLAYING] OK, now for the next
session, it is always an absolute treat for me
and often a mind boggling experience to get to interview
your co-host for today, sir Demis Hassabis. Now, Demis is a
computer scientist. He's an Artificial
Intelligence researcher. He's an entrepreneur
who co-founded DeepMind in 2010, where he is still CEO. Now, I don't know how much you
know about Demis' background. Because as well as the Nobel
Prize, and the knighthood, and being a fellow of the
Royal Society, and AlphaFold, and AlphaGo, and having
150,000 citations, he also had a previous life as a
very successful neuroscientist, chess champion, and
video games designer. I have to say, I have a
theory that, actually, Demis worked out the secrets
to AGI a little while ago and has been hiding it in his
basement and then just, like, slowly eking out all of
these massive breakthroughs one-by-one to the rest of us. But one thing is for
sure, our conversations are always genuinely
fascinating. So please, welcome
Demis Hassabis. Thank you. [APPLAUSE] Thank you, Demis. Thank you so much. OK, I heard that you didn't know
that the Nobel Prize was coming. Is that true? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, no-- HANNAH FRY: Really, really? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: How
did you find out? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, it was
quite a funny story, actually, because we had heard some
rumor that our fold had been sort of nominated,
but you never expect something like that. And in the morning, I was just
getting on with my normal work. Actually, my wife was
working at home, as well, and it got to about 10:30. And we thought,
oh, obviously, it's not happened this year,
because we hadn't heard. And then, suddenly,
my wife's computer started ringing on her
Skype, I think it was. And I said, what's
that annoying noise? And then it turned out
to be a call from Sweden, and they were desperately
trying to get hold of my number, and they didn't have
John's number either. So everyone was in
a kind of panic, but it all added to the
drama of the moment. Just 10 minutes before-- HANNAH FRY: You
had john's number? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, exactly. Just before it
was all announced. HANNAH FRY: Absolutely
amazing, and I also saw that you celebrated
by having a poker night with some chess
champions, including Magnus Carlsen and Hikaru, as well. I want to know, who won? What's your bluffing strategy? [LAUGHING] DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, it turned
out-- yeah, so that happened. I think it was on the
Wednesday, and it turned out that there was a big, huge chess
tournament going on in London. And one of my chess
friends, old chess friends from when I was young, was
hosting a poker and chess evening the day after. So I thought it was the
perfect way to celebrate, but I don't recommend
a home poker game with a couple of
world poker champions and a couple of
ex-world chess champions if you want to win some money. But that's my idea of
fun, and it was actually an amazing night. I know it sounds pretty nerdy,
but it was actually my idea of heaven to celebrate it. HANNAH FRY: Not at all. It sounds like-- DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, I can't
tell you the bluffing strategy. Otherwise, I'll never
beat Magnus again. [LAUGHING] Yeah. HANNAH FRY: Well, this is true. This is true. I mean, aside from
the Nobel Prize, a sentence that no one has
ever said, before that, in advance of that, you also
were named as a citation laureates, because the AlphaFold
work has now been cited over 28,000 times, which
is incredible. I mean, this is really not very
long ago that it came through. Are there standout applications
for you that really resonate? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, I mean,
it is mind boggling, really, and it's everything
we hoped would happen by putting AlphaFold out
there, and open sourcing it, and putting it out
with the community, with our fantastic partners at
EMBL-EBI, like Janet, and Ewan, and the audience as well, to
get it out there to everyone. I mean, there's so many
applications to mention, but I think maybe I can mention
two or three of my favorites were kind of determining the
structure of the nuclear pore complex, one of the most
important and largest proteins in the human body. And it's really
important, because it governs the molecules
and nutrients that go in and out of your cell nucleus. And, actually, several teams
used AlphaFold predictions, as well as their own
experimental data, to finally piece that
very, very complex protein structure together. So that was amazing. Another piece of work
that I really like is [INAUDIBLE] work
from the [? Broad, ?] developing a molecular syringe
to deliver drug payloads to hard parts of
the body to reach, and he also used
AlphaFold to help modify how that molecular
syringe was designed. And then maybe, finally,
my other favorite project is from the University of
Portsmouth, John McKeon's group, designing plastic eating
enzymes using AlphaFold. But I think it's
just a small sample of all the incredible work
researchers are doing with it. HANNAH FRY: But these
kind of projects, I mean, these are your
favorites, right? The ones where it's not just
sort of the technical idea itself, it's the
potential impact that it can have
further downstream? DEMIS HASSABIS:
Yeah, that's right. I mean, that's why I was always
intrigued by the protein folding problem or protein structure
prediction problem was because I felt-- we sometimes call it a
deepmind, a root node problem. What we mean by that
is, if you think of the whole tree
of knowledge, there are certain problems, where if
there are root node problems, if you unlock them, if you
discover a solution to them, it would unlock a whole new
branch or avenue of discovery. And I always felt that
determining a protein structure in this way would do that,
lead to disease understanding, drug design, and
much more, and that seems to be what's happened. HANNAH FRY: OK, so not to
be greedy, but what's next? Is there another AlphaFold? I mean, GNoME is a
personal favorite of mine. Maybe tell us a little
bit about that project. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, so GNoME,
look, there's so many areas, and actually, James
mentioned it in the morning, and Pushmeet talked
about it as well, that we're touching on
nearly every area of science. And GNoME is one of my
favorite projects, which is on material
design, and I think material design has some of the
same characteristics that we look for in a problem
that's suitable for AI. It's massive
combinatorial space. You need to try and
build a model that understands the physics
and the chemistry of the natural phenomena. And then, if you have
a model like that, you can then maybe use it to
do a very efficient search through that search space,
combinatorial space, and then find an
optimal solution. And in materials,
I think that would be also just as groundbreaking. You could imagine designing new
batteries or maybe, one day, discovering a room
temperature superconductor. It has always been
one of my dreams. So I think we're, obviously,
at the early stages of that. I would characterize it as sort
of AlphaFold one level maybe, and we've got to
get to AlphaFold two level of predictions. But we can see a
clear path from there, and GNoME is the
beginning of that work. We published it in-- I think it was in
Science, last year, and we discovered 200,000 new
crystals that no one had ever seen before. So I think that shows some of
the potential of AI in things, like material design. And then maybe the other
thing I'm excited about is AI applied to
mathematics and, perhaps, solving one of the
great conjectures, maybe one of the Millennium
prize problems, and using AI as a big
part of that solution. HANNAH FRY: So that idea,
though, about GNoME, also about AlphaFold, is
you're sort of shortcutting, or you're making the
sort of synthetic world really serve your advantage. So you're not having
to do everything through experimentation. I know that you
and Paul Nurse have been talking about a virtual
cell for a long while. Tell us a little bit about that. DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, Paul
has been one of my mentors. He's very generously mentored
me in the life sciences for more than 25 years
now or something, and it's been incredible,
sort of inspiring, talking to Paul very
regularly about these topics. And, unusually, I think Paul for
a life scientist, a biologist, he's thought a lot about biology
as an information system. He's written a lot of
interesting research papers on that. So we've always had this
discussion in the background, and I've always wondered-- every
five years or so, I've thought, do we have enough
technologies, enough know how to actually
really attempt this Mount Everest of a problem
or trying to build a virtual cell, a simulation
of a cell, basically, that would be predictive
of something that's really going to happen? And every five years, I
thought, we don't really have enough technologies yet. But, finally, now, I think the
answer is, yes, we probably do have enough know how and
techniques that we could attempt this seriously now. And maybe, in the
next five to 10 years, we could eventually
build up a picture of a virtual cell, perhaps, a
yeast cell to start off with, as Paul's always been working on
as the model organism for this. And my way of thinking
about it is you can think of AlphaFold2
as essentially solving the static picture
of what a protein looks like. But of course, we know
biology is a dynamic system. That's where all the interesting
things happen in biology, and AlphaFold3 is our
first step towards trying to model those interactions. So AlphaFold3 can model
pairwise interactions between proteins and proteins,
proteins and RNA, proteins, and DNA. And then maybe the
next step up from that would be to model
a whole pathway, and then, eventually, maybe we
can make it to an entire cell. HANNAH FRY: Amazing. I mean, I imagine that the
advent of quantum computing will make a difference now that
it's possible to do simulations down at the molecular level. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, so
look, quantum computing is very exciting. It itself is accelerating,
and James also mentioned earlier
this morning about the interesting
cross-pollination that's happening between
AI and quantum computing. Actually, we collaborate a
lot with our quantum computing group at Google, which is one
of the world's best quantum computing teams, on things,
like error correction codes and things like that. And of course, one of the
uses of a quantum computer would be to simulate quantum
systems, like molecules, and atoms, and things
like that, and compounds, and then produce a lot of
synthetic data potentially. But, interestingly, I also have
a slightly controversial take, which is-- and I've talked to some of the
world's top quantum computer scientists on this,
is that, actually, I believe that classical Turing
machines, classical computers, are capable of a lot more
than we previously thought. And I think that's what the
work that we've been doing has shown, both with
AlphaFold, but also previously with AlphaGo,
our program that beat the world champion
at the game of Go, which just as an indication
of the complexity Go, much more
complicated than chess and has more possible
board positions than there are atoms in the
universe, 10 to the power 170. So what that means
is you can't possibly brute force a solution
to find the best move in a particular position. You have to do
something much cleverer. So both protein folding
also has enormous numbers of possibilities, if you were
to do it naively and just try every combination, which is
the naive way of doing it. But yeah, if you
do things, like you do a huge amount of pre-compute
to build a model of the system before you ask it the question
that you're interested in, what move should I play
in this go position, how does this novel
protein fold, it turns out you can actually come back
with a near optimal move in Go in a few seconds or fold a
protein in a matter of minutes, which you might have
expected in protein space, at least, that you might need a
quantum computer for or quantum algorithm for. And it turns out, you don't. So I actually think we should
take this very seriously, that classical systems, if
you use them in the right way, may be capable of modeling
a lot more complex systems, perhaps, even
counterintuitively, quantum systems. Because, normally, you talk
about needing quantum computers to model any kind
of classical system, but it may be that
classical systems can model quantum systems. And I've tested this out
with some of the people, like Professor Zeilinger, who
won the Nobel Prize in physics recently for his pioneering
quantum computing work, and he thought it
was very interesting. And David Deutsch, also,
one of my scientific heroes, who's basically invented quantum
computing, said it was crazy, but the right sort of crazy,
which coming from him, I take as a compliment
and as also a sign to maybe pursue it further. HANNAH FRY: So let me make
sure I understand this then. So, I guess, the
classical computers are thought of as
deterministic machines, and you're talking here about
probabilistic questions. But you can use the
deterministic ones. DEMIS HASSABIS:
Yeah, and the idea is that quantum systems
are anything you try to mold, any natural phenomena. If you start trying to model
it by every possibility that it could take, that
system, then you quickly run out of computation
in a classical system. You need too many
bits to model it, but that's just not the way
that you would attempt to do it with a classical system. You would build a model,
first, that learns-- my conjecture on it would be
that any natural phenomena tends to have structure. And if it has structure,
you could potentially learn it with a classical
machine learning system, learn an efficient
model of that, and then use that to
search the possibilities in an efficient way. So I think that might get around
some of the inefficiencies from a naive way of doing this. I mean, it's a pretty big claim,
so I'm making it in a soft way. But it's a kind of hobby of
mine to look at this area, and it's something, I think,
that could be quite promising. HANNAH FRY: Another
hobby of yours that has now spun off into
its own business, Isomorphic, because, I mean, this
is work using AlphaFold to apply to drug discovery. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes. HANNAH FRY: You've got some
pretty prestigious partnerships now as well. Can you tell us what Isomorphic
is focusing on at the moment? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, so
Isomorphic is our spin out to try and revolutionize drug
discovery from first principles using AI from the ground up,
trying to re-imagine the drug discovery process. And I had this in mind when
we were doing AlphaFold. So I think it's one of the most,
obviously, good use cases of AI is to cure diseases. I mean, what better use
of AI could there be? So that has always been one
of the number one things I wanted to do with AI
once it got mature enough. So AlphaFold, of
course, is a great tool for fundamental research and
fundamental biology research. Over two million
researchers around the world have used AlphaFold and the
structures we put out there, but it's also a practical use
to help with drug discovery. Of course, knowing the
structure of a protein is only one small part of the
whole drug discovery process. So we spun out isomorphic
after we did AlphaFold two to build on that work and extend
and build new machine learning systems into adjacent
areas, things, like designing chemical
compounds and drug compounds, testing for toxicity
and predicting things, like ADME properties,
important properties that you need for drugs
to work in the body and minimize side effects
and things like that. And we're building-- you can
think of it as building up further AlphaFold-like models
in these adjacent areas. And then, eventually, we'll
stick them all together, and we hope that one day, in
the near future, actually, we'll reduce the time down
from years, maybe even decade, to design a drug down to
months or perhaps even weeks. And that would
revolutionize, I think, the drug discovery process. HANNAH FRY: This
really does seem like one of those
endeavors, where you're not having to make a choice between
doing something that benefits humanity and doing
something that can be profitable and sustain itself. How much do you look for those
kind of projects at the outset, or how much of it is that you
do sort of blue sky research and then hope that it'll
turn out that way in the end? DEMIS HASSABIS: I
think we do both. We're research led as a
group, always have been, so we try to do what's the right
next step for researching AGI, Artificial General Intelligence,
or something, like AlphaFold, where you really want to solve
the scientific challenge. But then, in the back of my
mind, I'm also pretty practical. So I want to solve
things that will also have a practical, positive
impact on the world pretty directly. So if you can find
projects that do both, then that's the
holy grail, really, and something that
really worthwhile, investing a lot of
time and effort. And AlphaFold was
exactly like that. So I was fascinated
by the problem itself. As Janet mentioned earlier,
the more you get into proteins, they're exquisite
bionanomachines. I mean, they're
unbelievably beautiful. I totally agree
with Janet on that, and you sort of fall
in love with them when you start working on them,
and it's just unbelievable what nature's engineered. But then I always had in mind
that would be a social good, but then Isomorphic
can do both, right? I think we can cure many
diseases with the help of AI, but also, it should be an
incredibly valuable company. And that, of course, if that
turns out to be the case, that will give us more money to
invest in fundamental research. So it's all a virtuous cycle. HANNAH FRY: With all of
these different projects going on in
fundamental research, I mean, do you think that we
are, at this moment, where we're going to have sort of a
vertical takeoff, as it were, on progress? DEMIS HASSABIS: I think we
are on the cusp of that. I really do feel like we're on
the brink of a new golden era of discovery, like the whole
of today's symposium is called. And I think what we
need is a lot more interdisciplinary science,
so using AI, bringing in the right way. We're asking the right
questions with domain experts, and I think it's
almost limitless, what its applications could be. And of course, AI itself
is a scientific discipline, is improving all the time. So there's applying today's
technologies directly to the other fields,
and then there's also continuing to improve AI
itself, and that as well is a sort of
exponential improvement. So there's a lot of,
I think, progress to be made in just
the next few years. HANNAH FRY: I think
interdisciplinarity has definitely been one of
the big themes of today, but I think that the other
themes are about what science looks like in the future. What does it mean to do
science in an era of AI? And I know that you're
a sort of big advocate for the scientific
method, but just talk to me a little bit about that. What does that look like
as we kind of move forward? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, look,
I think the scientific method is arguably maybe the greatest
idea humans have ever had and, I think, underpins,
obviously, all of science, but then
also because of that, science and technology,
modern civilization. And I think more than ever,
we need to anchor around that method in today's world,
and I think, especially with something as powerful
and potentially transformative as AI, I think it's important we
use more the scientific method than, perhaps, lean on
normal sort of technology, A/B testing out in the wild. That is often the case
with new technologies, and I feel we should treat this
more as a scientific endeavor, if possible,
although, it obviously has all the implications
that breakthrough technologies normally have in
terms of the speed of adoption and the speed of change. So it's an interesting
situation that we're in, and I think we need to use the
scientific method to do things, like better understand what
these systems do, build benchmarks and
rigorous evaluations for understanding the
limits of the capabilities, interpretability. Actually, I think we should be
using neuroscience techniques, which are, obviously, built
for understanding real brains, to model virtual brains. I sometimes call it
virtual brain analysis. What's the equivalent of an fMRI
of these neural networks, right? And I think there's a lot we
can learn, and bring across, and translate from
the natural sciences to what is basically
an engineering science. I call it an
engineering science, because unlike the
natural sciences, you have to build the
artifact of interest, first, and then, once you
have it, you can then use the scientific method to
reduce it down and understand its components. So it's a whole challenge. That's for sure, and these
systems, in my opinion, are as complex as the
natural phenomena we normally want to study. So no one should think
that it would be easier to understand one of
these artificial systems than it would be to
understand a natural system. I think they're just as
complex in many ways. So we've got a lot of
work in front of us, and I think this is something
that industry, academia, and civil society needs to come
together to understand better, including how to deploy
these technologies. HANNAH FRY: Where does
a scientist's intuition fit in all of this? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, I
think scientist's intuition and creativity is critical. I think, right now, the
AI systems are just tools. I think they're great
for finding correlations, and patterns, and structures
in data, but for the moment, they're not able to come up
with their own hypotheses or their own questions. And I think, as all the
scientists in the room know, I think that's the hardest
thing about science is asking the right
question, and that has to still come
from human scientists. And for the foreseeable future,
I think that will be the case. So I think it could
be-- that's why I'm very excited about the
use of these AI systems as maybe the ultimate
tools to help us accelerate scientific discovery. HANNAH FRY: I guess on that
topic of humans, I mean, there has been some
recent research saying that the progress of
scientific discovery has slowed down
over recent years. What's your take
on that, and what could be done to change that? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well,
look, I think things-- I've seen studies
like that, too, and I think there's interesting
conjectures as to why that is. Science has become
a bigger endeavor. You need to have bigger teams,
more expensive equipment, and so on. So that leads to some slowdown,
and perhaps, the questions we're now tackling
are ever more complex. So that's also tricky. I think what I
would recommend is, again, I think, a lot of the
advances in the next 10 years are going to be
interdisciplinary work, sort of bringing together experts
from two or more fields, and then that making the big
advances in between those areas. And, actually, that's the story
of DeepMind, which originally, I think, was a combination
of neuroscience ideas with machine learning ideas. It's also the
story of AlphaFold, which is the combination
of biologists and chemists on our team, along with machine
learning experts and engineers. So I've always found
that's the place to get the most
advances most quickly, and actually, we're announcing
today, a $20 million fund from Google.org
to fund this kind of interdisciplinary
work in academia. And I hope that other
funders join that effort, and I think that's
what we need is to train a new generation
of PhDs and postdocs in these kind of combination
of these different areas. HANNAH FRY: What an
extraordinary piece of news to finish on, $20
million for research in interdisciplinary teams. Demis, thank you
so much, indeed. Thank you very much. [APPLAUSE] OK, I think you go down to
join the other laureates, while we out the stage. Now, I should tell
you, actually, the laureates, the word,
laureates, by the way, comes from the
laurel wreath, which was given to victors in ancient
Greece as a sign of honor. And every year, there
are five separate prizes that are awarded to those who
are considered to have conferred the greatest benefit to
humankind courtesy of Alfred Nobel. There is a rumor that there is
no Nobel Prize for mathematics, because Alfred Nobel's
great love ran away with a mathematician. Have we heard this? I mean, we are charming. What can I say? Now, so joining me
on the stage, we have three further recipients
of this esteemed prize, John Jumper. We've not yet had the
pleasure of having John Jumper on the stage thus far. He is a director at
Google DeepMind, where he led the team that built
AlphaFold and continues to work on new methods
to apply machine learning to protein biology. John has won numerous
awards for his work, including the Lasker
Award, the Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences, the
Canada International Award, and of course, this year's
Nobel Prize in chemistry. We are also joined
by Sir Paul Nurse, who is CEO of the
Francis Crick Institute and winner of the 2001 prize
in physiology of medicine for his work also on proteins,
specifically the protein molecules that control the
division of cells in the cell cycle. And, finally, Jennifer Doudna,
who earlier shared her lessons from CRISPR with James, she won
the Nobel Prize in chemistry in 2020. Please, join me in welcoming
our four Nobel laureates to the stage. Thank you. OK, so I know that,
often, you get asked about where
were when you heard, what were you doing
when you heard. I want to ask you a
slightly different question. I want to ask you about
whether there was a moment when you realized that the
work that you were doing was genuinely groundbreaking. Was there sort of a
moment when you realized the significance of it? John? JOHN JUMPER: I think there were
kind of two moments for me. One was actually
watching Twitter after-- whenever you release
some work into the world, you anxiously refresh
Twitter, and we stick to the word AlphaFold, and
just see what tweets popped up. And I remember seeing,
when the database became available, so many
astounded grad students saying-- I think one was, how did
they get my structure, it hasn't been published,
how in the world, and just had
absolute astounding. Like, the number of
people that said either we predicted their structure,
this person down the hall, we predicted their structure, so
I thought they were absolutely blown away. And I think the
second moment was there was a special
issue of Science related to the structure of the
nuclear pore, the largest collection of proteins in the
human cell, protein chains, and there had been, like,
four papers in a special issue of Science, and
three out of the four had made huge
usage of AlphaFold. Something like more
than 100 mentions of the word
AlphaFold in Science, and we had nothing
to do with it. We didn't know it was happening. It just appeared
one day, and that was the moment when I really
knew that people were doing science worthy of appearing
in Science, one of the most prestigious journals in the
world, on top of our tools and without us. And the moment at which people
start making these discoveries on top of what
we've built, that's when you really make it as
someone who makes tools. HANNAH FRY: Jennifer,
did you have a moment? JENNIFER DOUDNA:
Well, I think for us, yeah, maybe also two moments. One was in the Fall
of probably 2011, when we had started a collaboration
with Emmanuelle Charpentier to work on CRISPR, which is
a bacterial immune system, and we wondered,
how does it work? And we had together figured
out that it's an RNA guided system that targets
DNA for cutting, for cleavage, and furthermore,
that we could actually program the system, because
we understood the chemistry of how it worked. And it was really one
of those aha moments. Personally, I was just astounded
that bacteria had figured out how to do this and that,
furthermore, we now understood how to harness that system to
manipulate DNA in new ways. So that was one, and
then the second one was sort of akin
to what you said, John, where I think it was then
fast forwarding about a year or so. We published that work in the
Summer of 2012, and by the Fall, I was starting to get
emails from people all over the world
who had read the paper and said, "Oh, my gosh,
this is so exciting. I'm now using it to test
genes in Drosophila. I'm starting to test
genes in zebrafish. I'm excited about what
I'm doing in human cells." I was getting messages from
people that I often barely knew who were just
very, very excited, and you could start to
feel the momentum that was building in the field. SIR PAUL NURSE: Cool. Well, I'm the oldie here,
so it's 1985, I'm afraid, and I work on yeast, as
you've already been told, and my lab had worked
out the genes that controlled the cell cycle. That is the process that leads
to the reproduction of one cell into two fundamental to growth
and development in all living organisms, and we'd
identified that gene. But the blunt thing is
that, who cares about yeast? I mean, being perfectly
honest, I care about yeast, but most of the world
does not care about yeast. So I found our work
wasn't really being taken much notice of. So I thought, do humans
have the same gene? Now, this is long before the
human genome sequence and so on. So we did a crazy experiment. I want to just tell
you how crazy it was. We had a mutant in yeast
that couldn't grow, because it was
defective in this gene. We took the first
human cDNA library. It's genES that
had ever been made. We didn't make it. We got it a few months
afterwards and fundamentally sprinkled the genes onto
the defective yeast, arguing that, if there
was a gene in humans that could do the same job as
the defective gene in yeast, if the yeast cell took it
up, if it could be expressed, if it worked, then those
cells would grow and divide, and we could get the gene back
and show that humans had it. That experiment had
no right to work. Yeast, humans probably diverged
1,500 million years ago, and we were demanding that it
still worked after 1,500 million years, and you
know, it did work. When we got that result-- and by the way,
there were a couple of months when we had
to sequence the genes. It took that long. Then I used to
think, I'm just going to go home and
believe this worked. Tomorrow, I will go
into work, and we will have shown it didn't
work, but it did work. And that's when I
thought, perhaps, it might be recognized,
because it wasn't yeast. It was humans. HANNAH FRY: What an amazing
collection of stories. Now, I know that all of you
must be bursting with questions for our panel, so I
might take some questions from the audience. Do we have mics running around? Oh, there's one there. I might take them
in a little cluster. Is there anyone else who
would like to pop them in? OK, so we have one here and
another one here as well. Roger? AUDIENCE: This has been
such an impressive day, and Thank you for
closing it out like this. I've got a very playful
question, which is, if you could take yourself back
in time and met your 18-year-old or your 21-year-old self, and
you could say something that would reassure that person
that you were making good life choices, what would you say? And you're not
allowed to say, you're going to win a Nobel Prize
or anything to do with that. So what would you say
to your 18-year-old, 20-year-old former self? HANNAH FRY: OK, well, we'll
collect another question. I think Roger Highfield just
here had a question too. ROGER HIGHFIELD: Roger
Highfield, the Science Museum. Just a comment,
we've seen images of Sycamore, the very cool
looking Google quantum computer. Can we, please, get some
sexy looking AI hardware that we can collect at the
Science Museum, please? [LAUGHING] Actually, a more serious point
is-- and you've kind of alluded to it, Demis, is
this thing about how AI is great at
giving you answers, but it doesn't give-- it's
not very good at giving you mechanistic insights. You've got billions
of parameters. They've got no physical meaning. How much of a barrier is this
to the public trusting AI? And I've talked to John
about this as well. Where are we in
actually getting an AI that can give us
the laws of biology, just like we've got
the laws of physics, so we get true
mechanistic insights? HANNAH FRY: Fantastic. Two very good questions there. We'll start with the first one. Demis, we go to you first. What would you what would you
say to your 18-year-old self? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, it's a
little bit complicated for me. I mean, I did actually have
this plan when I was 18. [LAUGHING] What is amazing
is it worked out. But I would have told myself-- I mean, it was a chess player in
me is I always plan, like, many, many years ahead. That's what happens if you play
chess from the age of four. You end up like this. But probably what I
would have said to myself is just enjoy the journey a bit
more, because it will work out. Because at the time,
I was like, how is this ever going to work out? I had all these dreams, and
then that's probably what I'd recommend to my
18-year-old self. HANNAH FRY: John? JOHN JUMPER: I think
two things, actually. Amusingly, I was thinking, don't
worry, Carolyn will marry you. But-- [LAUGHING] It's the gradient
descent of life. Do the right thing right now
has worked out really well, and be open to the interesting
things that will open up for you, and then,
I think, we're in one of the golden ages of
biology, and AI, and biology. And it's really fun
to live through that. So I think, like,
don't be afraid to be locally optimal, basically,
the opposite of Demis' advice. [LAUGHING] HANNAH FRY: How about Jennifer? Are you gradient
descent, or are you planning strategically
in advance? JENNIFER DOUDNA:
Probably closer to John. Yeah, I think I would tell
my 18-year-old self to follow my passion and
never, ever give up, and don't listen to
people that are naysayers. That's really important. SIR PAUL NURSE: I came from
a non-academic background. I couldn't believe that
you could get paid for just following your curiosity. I still don't believe it now,
40 years later, 50 years later, actually, more than
that, 55 years later. HANNAH FRY: Just hold on
to believing that we can, OK, as president of
the Royal Society? You're good. The second question
from Roger there about intuition from AI systems? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, look,
I think, actually, this is pretty interesting. I'm not so worried
about it as other people are, because I think
we're in a moment in time. So what I said earlier,
actually, my talk was what I believe, which
is that AI is an engineering science. So what it means is you have
to build the artifact, first, worthy of study, and then
you can break it down with a scientific method. So what you've seen
in the last five, 10 years is the building of the
artifacts that are even worth putting any effort into
study, until you have things, like today's transformer models
and AlphaFold's, AlphaGo's. The earlier systems
were probably not worth really putting
the effort in to study, because they were not
sophisticated enough. Now, they are. So now, people are seriously
studying the current systems. On top of that, you've
got the additional benefit of these systems improving
themselves, and at the minimum, I think, we'll be
in a situation, where, firstly,
the systems might be able to explain themselves
in language, or mathematics, or code. So we're getting close to that
as you could say to a system, OK, you've understood this. Now, explain that in a
mathematical equation to the extent that it can be. And I'm not sure biology
can be explained, like the laws of
physics, by the way. I think it is a lot messier. It's more to do
with interaction. So I think a simulation would be
more appropriate that you probe than, like, Newton's laws of
motion or something like that, and I don't think biology
could be reduced to that. It's too complex. And then the other thing
is what I also said earlier about applying neuroscience
techniques, analysis techniques to these
artificial neural networks, and we should be able
to get, at least, the same level of
insights into them as we do with natural brains. So if you combine
that together, we should get pretty far
already, let alone with further engineering
efforts that we're going to put on top to
decompose these systems. So I think, in the next five
years, we'll be out of this era that we're currently in
of kind of black boxes. HANNAH FRY: Fascinating. OK, further questions? All right, we've
got a couple here. So let's go one, two. And then, if you can keep
your hands up, actually, so I can see, we'll
go we'll go one, two, and then we'll go over there. Read them out in
chunks, if that's OK. Go for it. DANNY NEWMAN
GRIFFITHS: Thank you. Danny Newman Griffiths from
University of Sheffield. Just following up
on the topic earlier that came up about the
social sciences in AI, the idea was raised
about potential for AI to transform social sciences. I want to ask you about flipping
that around and thinking about, in your understanding,
how can you see the work of social
science as helping to transform these
next features of AI and building the ways to
transform that engineering science into the
interdisciplinarity that we've been talking about,
where AI tools are being combined with really deep
understanding of application areas and contexts? HANNAH FRY:
Fascinating question. Your neighbor next to you. AUDIENCE: A very
simple question, is attention still all we need? HANNAH FRY: Go for it. MICHAEL CHANG: Michael Chang
from the National Eye Institute in the US. Thank you very much. This was an awesome conference. I have a-- the theme here
is AI to do better science, and I think one of the
common things that we do is, well, we can just teach
scientists more about AI, and they can use it. My question is
flipping that around. Do you think there are
things that AIs do not do, that scientists should be
getting more training on to maximize their added value
and what those would be? Just love your
perspectives on that. HANNAH FRY: Fascinating. OK, all right, so
we'll start off with-- I might start with
you, Paul, actually, because you were the
one who was talking about social sciences earlier. So yeah, AI and social
sciences, how much do we have to think about that
sort of interface between humans and the machines? SIR PAUL NURSE:
Well, first of all, I think we need to focus
more on the social sciences to help us scientists. We have to appreciate, though,
that this is pretty complicated, the human interactions. So I'm not sure
how much it's going to help us at the beginning,
not sure about that, but we really ought to
be accommodating it, ought to be thinking
about how it might. I could imagine certain
social sciences problems, and I suspect you're
a social scientist, to do with transport
and things of this sort. So I think there are some
mechanical things, trying to understand how human
beings interact and work. Well, you have to
ask Carol, was it? JOHN JUMPER: Yes, sure. SIR PAUL NURSE:
John, yes, exactly. JOHN JUMPER: Oh, Caroline? SIR PAUL NURSE: Yes, that Carol. [LAUGHING] In other words-- sorry, I
thought it was straightforward. Getting emotion,
understanding emotion-- JOHN JUMPER: You got
my wife's name wrong. SIR PAUL NURSE: --is
going to be difficult. [LAUGHING] DEMIS HASSABIS: And
he was looking at me. It was doubly confusing. SIR PAUL NURSE:
Over to you, John. JOHN JUMPER: I mean,
should I answer this, or should I go to the-- HANNAH FRY: Yeah, go to the
attention, go to the attention. JOHN JUMPER: I think
attention is all you need is an oversimplification. I think one of the things
that's really interesting is AlphaFold isn't just,
like, grab a transformer off the shelf from
the transformer store and apply it to protein
structure prediction. It took a couple of years,
because there's a lot of work, and there's a lot of new ideas,
where attention is a component, but we have what we
would call evil former. We have new ideas on top. We have all sorts of-- Demis runs an
incredible AI research org, which goes into work every
day and doesn't just say, well, we've got all we need. There's a tension, right? We all are doing this
work, and it's really, I think, people
underestimate how much really novel and exciting
work is going on in AI right now that are making these
systems transformatively better, both unlocking new data
sources and learning a lot more from the existing data sources. AlphaFold is a story of having
the same data as everyone else and learning a tremendously more
about protein structure from it. So I think we'll continue to
see these dividends from AI research. We're going to continue to
see exciting new things, and we may always call
something a tension. But it reminds me of this
old computer scientist joke. I don't know what the scientific
computing language of the future will look like, but it will
be called Fortran, right? [LAUGHING] So we tend to keep the labels of
ideas and then update within it. And I think we
shouldn't underestimate how much really wonderful, and
exciting, and clever research is going on these days. DEMIS HASSABIS: Maybe I can
just add quickly to that. I agree with that. And, actually, the
transformer architecture, which is what was invented with
that paper, is being amazing and, I think, will underpin,
be one of the main components of a future AGI system. But my prediction is it's not
going to be enough on its own. I think we're going
to need a couple of other big breakthroughs
like that in addition, and they're still to come. HANNAH FRY: Jennifer, I
might come to you just to pick up on our third question
there about the gaps in what AI can do, and we need
to really focus on the skill set from humans. JENNIFER DOUDNA: Yeah, and
thanks for that question, Michael. So I guess what I've been
thinking about with regard to that is there's been a lot
of mention today about data and the kind of data that are
necessary for training models like this. And one of the challenges
in biology, of course, is the quality of
data, but it's also the quantity of
data and the fact that, typically, one
needs a lot of data that's of high quality to train
models, at least, currently. So what I'd like to see AI do
for us scientists is to educate us about how to collect data,
perhaps, sparsely, but smartly, so that your sparse
data is broad enough that it actually does provide
the right platform for training. And I think that's
something we don't, at least as an experimentalist,
right now, we don't think about that
when we design experiments, but we could. HANNAH FRY: I guess that kind
of comes back to the asking the right questions thing
that we were talking about. JENNIFER DOUDNA: It does. HANNAH FRY: What
is the [INAUDIBLE]? JOHN JUMPER: That's one
of the key questions. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, OK, we
probably have time for another. All right, we've got
red jumper at the back. You can go be number
one, and then I need to think strategically
about microphones. OK, if we go, there's a
little cluster over here. So we'll go 2, 3,
4 further back. Yes, just-- there we go. We found it. OK, go for it, number one. WENDY HALL: Hi, it's Wendy
Hall, University of Southampton. Someone who's been working
with social scientists for a long time,
the big issue there, collecting the data and
the issues around privacy. It makes it so much harder
than the science you do. The more we can do
with that, the better. My question, though,
as someone who's just been suffering from a
cold, as many people, please, can AI sort out the common cold? [LAUGHING] HANNAH FRY: Guys, what
have you been doing? OK, we've got three very
closely together here. Yeah, go ahead. THOMAS CRAMPTON:
Hi, Thomas Crampton. There's been a lot of talk,
obviously, about great science, a lot of fantastic
science discussed. What about the people
outside of this room, though, who don't understand science
and might be suspicious of it? How much concern do you have
that society might reject a lot of these great
breakthroughs that are coming to the
world, and what do you think we should
do to address that? HANNAH FRY: Great question. Next to you? AUDIENCE: Hi, I'm [INAUDIBLE]
from the African Institute for Mathematical Sciences. Thanks very much for a
wonderful discussion. I have two questions,
if you permit. The first is that, when
people talk about AGI, I think the common assumption
is that the target is human intelligence. But human intelligence
may be suboptimal, because this is the result
of historically contingent evolutionary process. So to what extent
do you think AGI is going to be something
supra optimal with respect to human intelligence? The second is about inclusion. Africa, by 2050, would
have the largest population of young adults in the world. This population would
be serving the world. It will have to in order for
humanity to continue its ascent. To what extent is the
community ensuring that Africans are included? I should mention that
Google has been amazing, and Google DeepMind has
been an amazing supporter of capacity building for
young Africans in AI. As a whole, what else
is the community doing? Thank you. HANNAH FRY: Great,
and then, I think, there's one bit immediately
behind you as well. Thank you. AUDIENCE: Thank you. [INAUDIBLE] Digital Science. I'm a recovering academic,
a nanochemist by training, and in chemistry, technological
developments in things, like microscopy, have
always opened doors to many, many other
areas of research. AI is very much the
same, but I think we've seen from a lot of the
speakers and the discussions today that a lot
of the developments come about through industry
rather than academia. So, Paul, I know you talked
about research cultures and how maybe-- some
of our other speakers talked about how maybe
the way that we reward successful research,
at the moment, isn't conducive to making space
for innovations in the same way. How do we change
a global culture when nobody wants to be
the first to do that, because they may be losing out? HANNAH FRY: OK, right. Four extremely
good questions, we have precisely four minutes
to answer them, everybody, OK? All right, so Paul,
we'll start with you. Why isn't there a cure
for the common cold yet? SIR PAUL NURSE: Well,
it's difficult, isn't it? I'll go to the-- HANNAH FRY: Of course,
you absolutely can. SIR PAUL NURSE: Keeping
the public on board, this is really critical. It's crucial. We really need to
concentrate on it. It is, of course,
not the first time. Nearly always, when there's been
a new technology and changes, there has been concern, and I
think I mentioned it earlier. We have to talk to
the right people. We have to talk to the public,
and too often, these discussions get hijacked by interest
groups and people who say they talk for the
public when they talk often for their own
particular interests or their own particular
passion that they have. So we have to work
out ways in which we can discuss with the public
and discuss in a sensible way, and I mentioned
deliberative democracy. It's expensive to
do, but I think it's a really important thing to do. Because, bluntly, if you don't
take the public with you, we won't be able to see all
the merits that can come out of this, merits in
terms of understanding the world better
around us, merits in terms of actually using those
discoveries for the public good. We have to engage, and we
have to convince the public that these things are right. HANNAH FRY: I think I
want to actually just add on a little bit to
Susie's question there, which I think
also incorporates part of your question. Because for all of
you, we were talking a lot today about measures
of success and incentives for scientists, and
of course, all of you have the ultimate prize
of being Nobel Laureates. How has your view
of success changed, and how should we kind of
influence future generations across the world of scientists
to make sure that we're getting the right outcomes? John, do you want to go first? JOHN JUMPER: I think that's-- I think one of the things
that's really been informing me over my scientific
career is just the power and the fun of working
on a team, doing science, and I was able to do
it at Google DeepMind. I did it for a
time before my PhD, and then the PhDs are a
little bit lonelier, right? You're working on a
particular individual thing. And I think, really, the
power of working within a team is really, really important. I think that provides
also its own motivation. Science is about
loads of failure and occasional dramatic
success, and we're all up here from those dramatic successes. But I think that-- and maybe Demis has it down
to a repeatable science, but-- [LAUGHING] I think that, really,
encouraging people to work in teams,
work together, and I think that helps provide
the kind of motivation that leads to better science, that
leads to more fun science. If you don't have fun
doing it, you won't do it. All the great scientists
seem to be having fun at it. HANNAH FRY: Jennifer? JENNIFER DOUDNA:
Couldn't agree more. And I have to say that, when I
think back on my career so far, I really feel great joy and
pride in the students that I've trained and the work
that they're now doing, and it's just there's
something incredibly satisfying about that. And, actually, can I speak to
one of the other questions? HANNAH FRY: Please. JENNIFER DOUDNA: You asked
about the question about Africa and involving African
scientists and young people who want to do science. So I'm really proud that the
Innovative Genomics Institute has an ongoing effort right now
in Kenya, where now, I think, we've done three years running. We've sent a team to
different parts of Kenya, where they've been working
with scientists there to work with them and really
help them understand CRISPR. It's really been
really motivating to see some of the
videos that come back, where these local
scientists then go back to their communities, and
they work with students, and they get excited,
and they start doing interesting,
creative science in their own laboratories. So I'd like to see more of that. I think there's an
extraordinary opportunity there, and I'm also very
excited about the things that I hear about Google doing. So I think there's a big
opportunity for all of us to work together on that. HANNAH FRY: More
and more people are being paid to follow
their curiosity, Paul. SIR PAUL NURSE: You almost
said what I was going to say. HANNAH FRY: Oh, sorry. [LAUGHING] SIR PAUL NURSE: Yeah, but
I'll amplify it slightly. We live in this
world of big data, and sometimes, we
have low standards, that it's enough just to
report lots of big data. There are certain journals,
very high profile journals, that seem to do
nothing, but actually report lots and lots of data. And I think it's worth giving
some attention to creativity in the world of big
data, because creativity can get lost in this
scenario, when in fact, there is enormous opportunities
with big data if we actually take
a creative approach. And we need to think a bit-- one, what is exactly creativity? And I could go on about
that, but I won't, because it's near the end. But we need to encourage
in our colleagues, in our students,
creative thinking, and that is a bit
different from collecting lots and lots of data. But lots and lots
of data really will deliver if they take a
creative approach to it. HANNAH FRY: Demis? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, so
many things to pick up on, and there's not much time. But, I mean, yeah,
creativity would be a very interesting
thing to have a whole panel discussion on it. Maybe the next time, we do this. But maybe just to pick up
on a couple of questions, I think in terms of encouraging
the next generation, for me, one of my heroes was Feynman. But it wasn't just
his physics books, which were very famous, right? But, actually, it was
his layperson's books that inspired me to
get into science, and I really think all
school kids should read them, so Surely You're
Joking, Mr. Feynman, and The Great Joy In
Finding Things Out. Because I think those books
more than any other I've read, and maybe there are
others like that, show how exhilarating it is to
be at the frontier of knowledge and what that means. I'm feeling getting goosebumps
even just talking about that, and it instilled that
in me when I was-- I can't remember what age,
like 10, or 11, or something. And I think it would be
great for school kids to be exposed to that, how
incredible and fun doing science should be, and I
think Feynman was one of those people
who had a lot of fun doing his incredible science and
as a great role model for that. HANNAH FRY: Thank you very much
to all of you, very much indeed. Thank you. Well, as always
with Demis, there was a dizzying array of topics
that were covered there. We had room temperature
superconductors. We had nuclear pore complex. We had molecular syringes. There was plastic eating
enzymes, drug design, even poker bluffing strategies. But I think for me,
the most standout moment from the
conversation today is about what it means to
be a scientist in the era of artificial intelligence,
because this event was co-hosted by the Royal Society, the Royal
Society, which was founded during the era of
great lone geniuses, standing on the shoulders of
giants, as the phrase goes. But I think that
maybe we need to start accepting that those
days of lone geniuses really are behind us. Because I think, if we are
going to address the biggest challenges that society faces,
climate change, energy, disease, our understanding
of the universe, then what we really need
is big, talented teams of scientists who are working
across traditional discipline boundaries. Politics has never
needed science more, but I think neither
has the world. And I think we need
this collaboration between our public institutions,
between governments, our health providers, and also
the private sector, because innovation is a pursuit
for people, but also by people. You've been listening to
Google DeepMind, The Podcast, with me, Professor Hannah Fry. If you enjoyed that
episode, do subscribe to our YouTube channel. You can also find us on your
favorite podcast platform. And we have got
plenty more episodes on a whole range of topics to
come, so do check those out too. See you next time. [MUSIC PLAYING]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: SM_vpRtg2Ac (https://youtu.be/SM_vpRtg2Ac) ===


[APPLAUSE] SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
This panel has to do with the
frontiers of science. And I've interpreted
and we've interpreted-- we had a conversation before-- the word frontiers very broadly. Obviously, one of the
frontiers of AI is the human. Another frontier
of AI is what is going to be done with
all the knowledge that is being collected and how that
knowledge influences discovery. So there's a question of
discovery being the frontier. And the management of all of
these incredibly powerful tools is also a frontier,
which leads us to the question of
what is a human. To some people, a human
is a locus of information. A human has personhood. We experience
grief, joy, sorrow. We are patients. We are caretakers of patients. We suffer when we have diseases. We suffer when our friends,
and family, and loved ones have diseases. We have privacy. We have dignity. We have empathy. And we are vulnerable. So there are many other
things, many other vectors. We also discover new things. And when we discover
new things, we are challenged, because
we have to figure out what to do with those discoveries. So the way I thought that
we would run this panel is to first talk,
for each one of us to talk about how we
use AI in discovery, in our particular discovery, to
be very specific about how we use AI in our discovery,
and a little perspective on how each of our
fields is working with the discovery and AI. The second aspect I
want to talk about is to veer a little
bit into controversy and ask the question--
because I think that it is almost inevitable
that, at least in my lifetime, that there will be some
version of an AI Fukushima. And by that, I
mean there will be a breach of data, or
a breach of privacy, or a discovery that takes us to
the brink of something that's unpalatable, that's dangerous. There's already been, in the
recent elections, the use of AI, not in our sphere,
but in the use of AI as a weaponized mechanism
of false information. So that brings us
to another frontier, which is the frontier of
how to take all of this and potentially mitigate
against these problems. So that's going to be the broad
overview of what we're doing. And then finally, we'll
talk more optimistically about the future in
each of our fields, and talk about
what we think about as these fields move ahead,
and how we can incorporate while mitigating the risks. So I'll start with-- I'll call everyone
by their first name if that's OK, because there are
too many honorifics that follow. I'll start with Anne. And maybe, we can start with
you talking about what you do, and how you incorporate
AI in your work, and what the field
is looking at. ANNE VINCENT-SALOMON:
OK, thank you. Yes, my work is to
be a pathologist. But I am also the head of a new
institute about women's cancer. So first, starting
with pathology, AI-- we have been validating
or co-developing tools with different startups
to have tools enhanced to facilitate the diagnosis and
also to challenge a question. Can we predict a BRCA1 and
2 status from H&E slides? This was done with
an academic lab. Head being Thomas Walter
from the École des Mines PSL University. And so finally, I
found it very exciting, because it opens new
tools for diagnosis. It brings us speed,
but it has to be very accurate and efficient. The tool has to be
accurate and efficient. But at the end of the day, I
think that the human guarantee, because it will be so far
as I can forecast, always a pathologist who will sign
out, it is a breast cancer. But in the Institute of
Women's Cancer, which is an institute built by
Institut Curie, PSL University, and Inserm, we really want
to make new algorithms alone or with industry. And we hope to bring new tools
that will facilitate our lives. But maybe, we will
speak after about how we are going to make that happen
and accepted by the patients. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: Sure,
we'll come back to that. Janet? JANET THORNTON: So
I'm Janet Thornton. I'm a computational biologist. And I've worked in the
world of protein structures. And I don't know
if you saw at lunch that wonderful display of a
protein structure rotating. To me, they are some of the most
beautiful things in the world. And so I started when we only
had 20 protein structure. With AlphaFold, now, we can
model 214 million protein structures. So the change in the field-- so
if we're asking what impact will AI have on science-- in this case, it had the
most enormous impact, so that now structural
biologists worldwide use this data to actually help
them solve their structures and to validate
their structures. And it's really
transformed the field. Recent progress, beyond
the original AlphaFold, has meant we can
look at multimers and look at ligand binding. And of course, we know that
proteins, which we're all made of, actually
only work because they interact with other things. And so being able to look at
and predict these interactions, and the modulations that
happen during evolution, to me, remains one of the most
exciting and demanding areas of molecular biology. But going on to the
cellular biology and understanding the human
body as a whole, and medicine in particular, then
we will need to go to this next step of integrating
the data for an individual cell and working out how that cell
interacts with other cells. And that, I think, will be an
enormous thing going forward. Actually, it's the basis of our
future understanding of life. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: Great. Anna, tell us about what you do. ANNA GREKA: I think that's a
wonderful segue into my story. So I'm a physician scientist
and a cell biologist. And of course, the 37 trillion
cells or so in our bodies are really-- it's
the unit of life. And so understanding cells-- I mean, I actually
study membrane proteins. So proteins fascinate me
by how they come together to organize themselves in cells
and all the basic functions that basically allow us all to work,
our systems and organs to work. So I'd like to
illustrate how we use AI, by telling you a story
of scientific discovery that comes from my group. So I work at the
Broad Institute. So it's a place where a lot
of genetics and genomics happen on a daily basis. And so as a physician
scientist, I've taken an interest in trying
to understand how misspellings in the DNA lead to broken
circuits inside cells, and then, of course, how
we find ways to fix them. So this particular story begins
on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, where it was
actually known for many decades that there were many families,
in which in every generation, several members
suffered and died from, what turned out to be,
a mysterious kidney disease. So the mystery was solved by
the Broad Institute in that we actually found that this was
because of a misspelling that was hiding in a very dark
corner of the human genome in a variable number
of tandem repeats region of a gene
called mucin 1, which is a glycoprotein,
a membrane protein. And then, my team took on
this challenge of figuring out how this misspelling
results in broken circuits inside these kidney cells. And in order to do that-- and
that's the first example of how machine learning was used,
and this is now for image recognition, essentially-- I have calculated, because I
had to tally up all the work that we did. We used a lot of
imaging-based approaches, as cell biologists do. But we did it at
high throughput. And I think, over the course
of several years, we imaged, what I have counted to
be, about 15 million cells that we basically were
able to then assess how these circuits
inside the cells are broken, on account of
this particular mutation. And then, of course, we also
discovered a small molecule by doing this approach--
again, image-based screening-- in order to,
hopefully, get to a therapeutic. And so what we
found in doing this, and this takes us to
the next use of AI, is that the misspelling
in the DNA, the mutation, results in a
misshapen protein that accumulates inside the cells. And this accumulation is
caused by another molecule, what I call a nodal molecule. It turns out to be something
called a cargo receptor. The details don't matter. But just to say that this is a
system that captures misshapen, misfolded proteins and
holds on to them so tight that the cells eventually
die, because there's too much accumulation of
toxic waste, if you will. And then it turns out that
this discovery is actually what I call a nodal
mechanism, because it's not only relevant to this particular
misfolded protein that causes kidney disease, but it
turns out, as we discovered, it's also relevant to a
misfolded protein that causes a form of Alzheimer's,
and a misfolded protein that causes a form of blindness
in the eye, and on and on, in the liver and the lung. So it turns out to be a nodal
mechanism that we can now target therapeutically for the
benefit of many more patients than we previously
thought possible. And how did we define
the perfect fitting drug, if you will, for this
particular nodal target? Well, AlphaFold-- and this is
a structure that I shared with Demis when we met last summer-- was actually brilliant
in figuring out how a heterotetrameric
structure, so four things coming together, are actually
forming a structure that creates a specific pocket
for a drug that we discovered that is now
disrupting this nodal mechanism and can, therefore,
have therapeutic benefit for all the diseases
that I mentioned. And I'm pleased to say that,
by using machine learning for images and then ultimately
AlphaFold for this target, we both did target discovery and
then drug discovery that is now actually making its way
toward patients in partnership with a pharmaceutical
partner from my lab. And so this is just an
example to illustrate the power of these tools
that can only get better and better as the years go on. And so I'm very excited for what
the potential is for the future. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
So pathology, genomics, basic discovery-- I lie at the far end. I'm a drug discoverer
and a clinical scientist. I have a quick,
fun story as well. My lab has been involved in
making antibody drug toxins. These are antibodies that
are conjugated to toxins. One of the things that
we use, of course, is AlphaFold to figure out
the structure of the antibody and where to potentially
attach the toxins. And a very common drug in women
with Herceptin-resistant breast cancer is a drug called ENHERTU. It's been out for a while
now, very commonly used. The problem with ENHERTU is
that it causes a 10% to 20% risk of Interstitial
Lung Disease, which we didn't know why. And 2% to 3% of those
patients with ILD will die. And this is how
sad and, of course, how desperate the field is that
people will take a 2% to 3% risk of death in order to
get the benefit of ENHERTU. So with using AI tools, we were
making these various drug toxin combinations and putting
them into models to show ILD. And we asked the
AI module basically to make all combinations,
so to create every possible combination. And one combination it
threw out, which we said was a stupid idea, it
threw out the combination of just the antibody
with just the linker. And it said, "you haven't really
tested that part, have you?" And we said, well, that's
a really stupid idea. Of course, there's nothing. It's a linker. A linker is a passive element. It's the piece that
links the chemical-- to the toxin to the antibody. Well, as case may be, it turns
out that, in fact, the linker is the toxic part. We're just publishing that data. And we would have
not found that. So here's an example in
which the AI module suggested an experiment that humans had
to ingest and, basically, be humbled by and then find
out that, in fact, that was the right experiment to do. It was a control
that a smart graduate student would have suggested. We just neglected
to have done it. So across the spectrum, again,
an incredible use of AI. Let's talk about data, because
a lot of the conversation has been focused on data. And when I think about data,
I think about three corners. And we talked a little
bit about this earlier. One corner is, what I call,
access quality integration. So I'd like all of us to
take each of these corners and reflect a little bit
about this in your own fields. The second is privacy. And the third is equity. So again, access quality
integration, equity, and privacy. In pathology, in
discovery, in genomics, how do you think
about these corners? You don't have to tackle
all three of them. Pick one, pick two. But how do you
think about these, because these are the frontiers
that we will be facing or are already facing as our
science interfaces with AI? Anne? ANNE VINCENT-SALOMON: Yeah. For pathology, the
situation is really different within
different countries. Here in England, the
government decided to make digitalization
accessible to a lot of pathology departments. And in some other countries,
for example, like in France, it started very slowly. So for people to understand
glass slides from tissues that are biopsies or samples from
surgical specimens are unaware, analyzed under a microscope
to make a diagnosis, using proteins to address
the different diagnoses and the different
therapeutic targets. But now, we
digitalized the slides. But it costs a lot
to make a transition from a normal pathology lab
to a fully digitalized lab. So here, there is a bottleneck. Because to make that happen,
either it's a political decision and the government helps
pathology departments if it's appropriate, with
regard to the economy and political organization
of the country, or its institution
by institution that the decision is made. So this is the difficulty. And then to make big data
sets for foundation models, we need a lot, one million
digitalized slides. So it means a lot of human
work to go and retrieve the glass slides from trays
where they are stored. It's enormous work. So it's better to do it
prospectively on a daily basis. But to do retrospective analysis
and to have huge data sets, it's really a tough job to do. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: Well,
let me ask you a question. Who owns that data? ANNE VINCENT-SALOMON:
Well, I think that's where the
interpretation of the law may be different also,
country by country. If I'm asked the question,
and this is the case, I would like to say, well,
the glass slide comes from the body of the patient. So why isn't it the patient
that owns his own tissue blocks, glass slides? But for example, in France,
it's part of the patient file. So it belongs to the
hospital data warehouse. So I think that here, maybe
lawyers and people who write the laws could
have conversations with patients, advocates,
patients, and pathologists maybe. It could be helpful, I think. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
Yeah, I mean, it seems to me that one of the
things that we've glossed over in the data conversation
is ownership. And I think it's very important
to not gloss over that, because that's where the
public distrust begins. And I'll give you a
particular example. I want to talk
about it in genomics as well, because
it's very relevant. But as you know,
"The New York Times" is currently suing OpenAI
for the use of all its data. Writers are suing OpenAI or
other aggregate AI models for the use of their data. And so I gave you-- we were
talking a little bit beforehand, I said, well, on
one hand, it's when you give a patient
a consent form, and you say this is your
data, donate your data, because it might help
other breast cancer patients in the future,
most patients will say, absolutely will do that. On the other hand, if that
same consent form says, donate your data
so that it can go to a company that begins with G,
and they will then potentially monetize that data, that
patient may not be so happy. So the question of who
owns the data suddenly becomes much more complicated
than just giving up data for the greater public good,
because it is, in fact, usually aggregators of data that are
getting a lot of the good. Janet, what do you think
about data and privacy? JANET THORNTON: Well, let me
say something about data first. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: Yes. JANET THORNTON:
So I was director of the European Bioinformatics
Institute that keeps, curates, collects, et cetera, the data
on molecular biology and beyond. So we had a lot of
discussions around this. Personally, I was involved
in the Protein Data Bank, the Worldwide
Protein Data Bank, which has been through many
years of discussing actually privacy at the beginning. Because in the
early days, it often took five years to determine
a protein structure. And so crystallographers
were very reluctant to share their data. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
I can imagine. JANET THORNTON: They
were very reluctant. And frankly, it took
20 years for everybody to come around to the idea
that by sharing the data-- SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: So give
us a history lesson Janet. How did they come around? How did the crystal-- I mean, otherwise, you
wouldn't have AlphaFold, right? JANET THORNTON:
--no, we wouldn't. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: PDBE-- JANET THORNTON: I should
have made that point. Without the data, we won't
have any AI or any powerful AI. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
--so what was it? JANET THORNTON: So in fact,
the International Union of Crystallographers
passed a statement saying that unless people
deposited their data, they would not be able to
publish in various journals. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
It was not a carrot. It was a stick. JANET THORNTON: Well,
but there was also-- yes, it was basically a stick. But many of the community
were already on board. But there were some
outstanding exceptions. Some of the best people actually
didn't want to share their data. And so there needs to
be a change in culture for the medical data within
the clinical profession, actually, that
they see the value. And in terms of privacy,
that we can reassure people that the tools we have for
anonymization or pseudo anonymization are really
powerful, because that is often the most challenging thing. I think also, the
Worldwide Protein Data Bank is publicly available
for everyone. The data is essentially free. And I think this
brings, personally, even for medical
data, I would suggest that this-- because if you
have the knowledge of a given mutation and how to treat
it, that's knowledge. You publish it. And you want to share that
data as far as you can. So I would make a strong
plea for public data, even if it's taken you five
years or more to determine it, that there comes a
time when you can, and I think, should, because
most of the academic data-- it's different if
it's in a company that you can decide we
will collect this data. And this is our data. But actually, if
it's publicly funded, I think most people would agree. And I think here in the UK,
because we have our National Health Service, there's
a terrific opportunity if we can harness that data. And there's something called
Health Data Research, which is trying to promote and
facilitate the sharing of data with the NHS. And we have our secure
data environments in each hospital now. So this is a long process. As I've said, in the
crystallographic world, which is a tiny little world
actually, it took 20 years to do this for the
health world, which is infinitely bigger and
infinitely more complex. It's just going to
take a long time to set up this ecosystem
of data resources and access that allows
people to access it. But this is all with the
consent of the patient where possible, with
understanding and education for the patients about
how this will work and that they will-- and
for the doctors, actually. There is a recent
report on health data from Cathie Sudlow that
was published last Friday, launched last Friday. And it does a
beautiful description of the landscape
of data in the UK. And it's really important
that the government and all the health, all the many,
many hospitals and everything, really get together. Because I do believe
for infrastructure, it's kind of top down. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: Right. JANET THORNTON:
Research is top down. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
Anna, yeah, I had a particular question. But take it-- ANNA GREKA: I just wanted
to comment that we may not have to reinvent the wheel. After all, we have, as a
community of scientists, sequenced, by this time,
millions of humans. And this is all de-identified
data that is federated. We have developed systems
that can actually do that. We have done it
with human genomes. James mentioned the
pan-genome this morning. There's other aggregators where
these data are de-identified, but then in a format that
can be used by scientists all around the world. Now, that's just
genomic information. What we're talking about
here are multiple layers of information that
already exists, however. I mean, if you took all the
pathology labs on the planet and aggregated all that
data, we would probably have a lot of available data
to train models for imaging, recognition, things like that. So I think that
there's an opportunity to think about ways in which
we can anonymize the data, but keep the metadata
available, and then federate the data in systems that
could be shared, hopefully across governments
and institutions. I know it's harder to--
it's easier said than done, essentially. But we don't necessarily
need to invent something that doesn't exist. We just need to build on what
we've already done in order to-- at the end, the bottom line
is to help more patients. And so I'm hopeful
that that can happen. But I didn't want to derail
whatever questions you-- SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
No, no, I was just continuing the conversation. I guess as we
begin to wrap up, I did want to talk about the fact
that the word frontiers also means dangers. Every frontier also means
encountering something new and unexplored, and
therefore, some of the concerns. And there are many
we talked about. What are the mechanisms that you
think about in your own fields, about mitigating
potential risks-- and take risks as broadly
as possible-- mitigating the potential risks
that might lie ahead? What are the risks? What should we watch? What should we be watching
out for before it happens? And how do we mitigate that? Maybe we'll start with Anna
first and then go backwards. ANNA GREKA: Well, sure,
I mean, we were just talking about breach in
privacy, patient privacy. Of course, that
would be a concern. And that's the kinds
of systems that we have to put in place for that
to safeguard against that. I'm thinking about, AI can be
used to develop bioweapons, for example. And that's something
that we have to face. And it's a real risk. I think that we need to use
these tools responsibly. Again, I think meetings like
this are a wonderful way to have this kind of
dialogue about what is needed and then what can be done to
safeguard for and mitigate the risks that exist. Any worthwhile human
endeavor entails some risk. I think we can
all agree on that. And so I think
shying away from it, I don't think that's a choice. But finding ways to
use it responsibly-- I was part of a conversation
at the United Nations earlier this year about the
same topic, among other topics, on the use of AI. And I think that there's a
lot of other organizations and bodies that are now
trying to take this on. So that's encouraging. It would be nice to not
over-regulate, but regulate just enough, which is always
tricky, so that we do not stifle the scientific
discovery, but also have some regulations in place
to mitigate for such risks. Again, easier said than done. But I think this
is where we are. As practitioners
of using this tool in any of our scientific fields
that we all represent here, I think it will be
important to think about the balance
between these two things. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
Janet, when you began to see
all these crystal structures being deposited-- again, now turning
towards discovery more than anything else-- was there a concern
that someone would use these crystal structures
to build a new molecule that could be a toxin or-- JANET THORNTON: Yes, there was. But I think, as Anna
said, and I agree with everything you said
about you put in all the technical limitations. And protein design
is, obviously, one of the things that-- SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
--you can do, yeah. JANET THORNTON:
--AlphaFold will enable. And that potentially
can be dangerous. Two points I'd
make, obviously, you do all the technical things
you can to avoid such issues. But perhaps, more importantly,
you educate the public. As Paul Nurse
said, if people can understand what's going on more,
they're less worried about it. And you're ready. You're prepared
for what happens. It's like data breaches that
we know happen all the time. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
Anne, you're part of a public institution. And you have liaisons
with the government, with the political
system all the time. Are you happy with
where the conversations are about responsibility? And do you think they're
going in the right direction? Should we be having
more of them? It seems to me that this is a
very scientifically-oriented audience. And there are, certainly,
people from the policy world. But maybe this is
back to all of you. But let's start with you. But are you happy with where
things are going as we move? Again, to keep the frontier
part element of this, are you happy at the frontier? ANNE VINCENT-SALOMON:
Well, I think that more science is needed
always to make a better world. That's what I fully
believe, of course. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: Most
people in the audience believe that, yes. ANNE VINCENT-SALOMON:
And I think that's to involve the people. Yes, absolutely, to
educate the people, but to educate also
multidisciplinarity is absolutely the key. I truly believe it. And to bring human
sciences into the field, to understand how
the mind of people faced with novelty, to educate
them not to fear anything from science and novelty, but
to try to better understand. And I think that should
be the leading thought. And of course, I
think that politicians that try to do that, they try. But at the same time, yes, we
must have secured hospitals. Because when we
see the disaster, it is-- when a hospital
IT attack happens. So I truly believe that we must
be optimistic by associating the patients, the
people, educate, educate more, and explain,
and keep going on explaining. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: So
for a quick fire round, I'll ask each one of you to
paint a more optimistic picture of what you are excited about
AI enabling in your particular field in the next 5,10 years. When we come back
in 5 years, what will you be able to tell us that
happened in pathology, genomics, discovery? ANNE VINCENT-SALOMON:
For me, I would like to be sure that we
have tools to facilitate the work of the pathologists,
but at the same time, understanding cancer will come
from integrating a lot of datas, and also to try to figure
out how to prevent cancer. And this is a highly-- SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: It's
a preventative pathology. OK. ANNE VINCENT-SALOMON: --yeah. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
All right, Janet? JANET THORNTON: Me? Understanding the
chemistry and the biology of life, which we still don't
in many, many different areas, and being able to apply it in
medicine for preventative-- exactly as you say. And also, just being able
to use all of this knowledge that we have, frankly, to
make the world a better place. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: Anna? ANNA GREKA: Well,
I'm coming back to the units of life, the cells. And I think Sir Paul
mentioned this earlier. I've discussed it last
night with John Jumper, and also with Demis, previously. I think we need the equivalent. We're speaking about AI and
what the future might hold. And if we're going
to understand life, then we must understand
the unit of life. And to understand cells, I
think the complexity of biology is so high that we need the
equivalent clean data set like the PDB was for AlphaFold. I think people in the audience
would probably agree with me. I was discussing this with
Pushmeet earlier as well. We don't have it at the moment. And so what I would like to
see over the next five years, quite literally, and I'm hoping
to be part of spearheading that effort, is a moonshot to
get a clean perturbation data set of human cells. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
Because you're a skeptic of synthetic data. [LAUGHTER] ANNA GREKA: I am, in the
sense that I think one-- SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE: Which is
not the case with many people here. ANNA GREKA: --that may be true. And I'm not a
computer scientist. I'm a cell biologist. So of course, I have
my biased perspectives. So I take that point as well. But I think that we
need a certain amount of real, experimentally-derived
data as the ground truth, upon which we could
build, potentially by enhancing in the direction
of simulations or synthetic data down the road. But I do think that
we need a grand-- the equivalent of a PDB,
or a Human Genome Project, a grand challenge, a moonshot
to get enough perturbations of human cells in a systematic
way, in a clean data set, well controlled. Because otherwise, we are in
a situation where all of us, including myself, have generated
millions of cells worth of data, single cell data, other kinds
of data, transcriptomic imaging, that cannot be patched together,
in a way that would be most meaningful, in the
way that the PDB was. So we need a clean data
set in order to do that. And I, for one, would love
in the next five years that we actually develop this
data set, analyze the data set, and really learn something
more about the unit of life, which is our cells. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE:
Well, with that, I will thank everyone and invite
everyone to thank the panelists. ANNA GREKA: Thank you. [APPLAUSE]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: X2zaJdtHMto (https://youtu.be/X2zaJdtHMto) ===


[APPLAUSE] LILA IBRAHIM: I am
delighted to have you with me to talk about the
evolving role of science and how to best collaborate for
impact with the theme for today, really about how do we pave
the path for the future. I've been through a lot of
technology changes in my career, and I feel like we're
at an inflection point. And I want to first start
with taking a look back-- we're trying to balance
this-- taking a look back, as we saw in that opening video
of the extraordinary changes that have happened since the
1600s in the field of science. And we're standing on
the shoulders of giants. We have lots to pay in terms
of respect to the past. But we're also at this
really interesting point now of looking to the future
and thinking about how do we manage this
transition to using AI as a new scientific
instrument, and doing so in a very intentional
and deliberate way. So I want to start
with a question. How have you
experienced the changes within science in
the last few decades? And how do you see the
evolution in the face of AI? And Sir Paul, if you don't mind,
we'll start with you, please. PAUL NURSE: Well, I think the
first thing we have to emphasize is what you've already said,
that we live in an increasingly complex scientific world. You mentioned decades. And I've been
involved for decades. You can tell that from the
color of my hair, of course. But what we've seen is a major
expansion of science, one thing. Two, as you said, increase
in complexity of science. And that has led, I would
say, to an increasing numbers of silos in science,
self-referential silos, quite often the case. And we have to begin by
seeing how we can break down those silos, how we can
actually get the different parts of the scientific community
talking to each other, not just collaborating, but
just interacting and talking one with another. We have to increase
permeability across disciplines. And that's particularly
the case with respect to artificial intelligence,
where we are all being influenced by it. And we have to increase
the permeability to it, so it doesn't become a
sort of new priesthood that is somehow
separate from the rest of the scientific endeavor. So there are a number
of, what I might say, sort of social science
aspects to this, of actually getting a
better working community, working across
disciplines, working across different types of
organizations, which I'm sure we'll bring up,
from universities through to industrial and
commercial organizations. And that requires,
not only the will, including the political
will, but actually us thinking carefully about
how we talk to each other, think about it, how people who
are trained in different ways. If you're a doctor, for example,
it's quite hierarchical. And aren't you
grateful for that? If you go and have
an operation, you don't want to be experimented
on by a molecular biologist like me. And yet, we expect, by mixing
different disciplines together like that, different
people, it'll work. We need to work at it, because
it doesn't always work. LILA IBRAHIM: We'll
get on to more of that, of what we can
learn about how to structure and organize for that. But maybe next we'll
go with Dame Angela. How are you thinking
about where we've been, and now at this
point, looking forward of where are we at
with the transition? And how do we need to be
thinking about that transition? ANGELA MCLEAN: So
I think what I see is that we've come through
the revolution of big science, and the centrally-organized
projects had a very clear purpose
and run, more or less, in a command and control way,
to this fantastic distributed collective that put together
all the data that was required to build AlphaFold. I was very pleased that Paul
called out the data curation effort that went behind that. And I mean, if that's
not big science, what is? But it wasn't run as a
single centralized project. What it did have was a very
clearly stated question. How does this DNA sequence
make this shaped protein? And so clearly articulated
that you could actually run a competition and say, oh,
this one's better than that one. And I think that is
the thing that we're going to be absolutely searching
for is, what is the question. How do we define success? And then, how do we make sure
that people can gather around that question? | thought Paul's points
were really great about we need to find new
ways of contributing together. And I thought Fabian
raised, very importantly, the issue of language in that. LILA IBRAHIM: Maybe just really
quickly between the two of you, with having such-- you mentioned the silos
and the questions-- how are you seeing those
questions come about? Are people agreeing, coming
from different disciplines on the questions that you asked? ANGELA MCLEAN:
Well, that depends. Yeah, I think you can split
disciplines into the disciplines where the open
questions are decided. So last night, it
was all very clear that lots of people
around the table thought it'd be great if we
solved the Riemann hypothesis. So maths, physics,
they're basically just this set of questions. And if you solve one of
them, boom, Nobel Prize. And then things like
biology, where there are not so many very clear cut, this
is something everybody knows is difficult and everybody-- but basically, if you're
not working on that, then you're not really a
very serious biologist. Biologists are much more-- I don't know what the word
is-- flatter, more democratic. There just are a lot more. I don't know if there are even
countably many open questions. PAUL NURSE: They're
a load of anarchists. That's the real problem. ANGELA MCLEAN: So I think, yeah. So amongst the anarchists,
picking what should we work on together is
going to be-- that itself is an interesting problem. PAUL NURSE: Well, we'll probably
talk about focused research institutes, for example. I actually think in biology,
at least at the discovery end-- and that's something else we
may want to talk about-- we need more unfocused research
organizations, if I can put it that way, to deal
with the fact that we have a diversity of problems, a
diversity of people doing them. And what we have to do is
to let it all out there, but capture what actually works. And we have to think about
the capturing as well as actually the generation
of that knowledge. LILA IBRAHIM: Well, Ilan,
you're at the forefront of some of this with ARIA. And how have you seen
some of science evolve? And you're trying to redefine
how this approach happens now, as you're thinking about
the future and the way that you're organizing. Can you maybe share some
of your thoughts as well? ILAN GUR: Sure. So for folks who
may not know ARIA, the Advanced Research
and Invention Agency is a new R&D funding agency
set up by the UK government and funded by the UK government. And the mission is ambitious,
but actually pretty simple, which is build on the
incredibly rich ecosystem of scientific research,
talent, and capacity in the UK, and in some cases beyond, to
try and go after breakthroughs, which may be far fetched
or hard to achieve. But if they work,
they would have really profound consequences
to the future of the UK and humanity at large. And there are aspects within
ARIA that I think really are based on some of what Paul
said around mixing disciplines. And Angela, in terms of
connecting the dots and asking the right questions, I think
the thing that is probably most central, and it goes to your
question around thinking about science and breakthroughs
since the 1600s, even though we have changes in
thinking about how science gets funded, where the
institutions are, what are the questions and
infrastructure we're asking. There is one thing
that stays constant, which is, ultimately,
innovation ends up being a pursuit by
people, for people. And so the idea of
recognizing that actually, at the core of this is who are
the people doing the work, what are the environments and
incentives, what's motivating them, and who, ultimately, is
going to benefit from the work is something we
think about a lot. LILA IBRAHIM: It's interesting. In your answers, all of you
have talked a little bit about how we're at this point
where the technology, AI, may become a new
scientific instrument, but it's really how does
it help the human potential in this role and the challenges,
too, of how we organize. Which as chief
operating officer, I have to think
a lot about this, of how do we focus on
how we organize ourselves to maximize the impact in the
face of all of these changes. And it is interesting,
I think, Paul, as you mentioned,
the internal silos of where and how do you
break those down or foster the permeableness of
that, and bringing diverse voices to the table
and different perspectives, global expertise in. It's like this marriage
of different perspectives. We're all in
different roles, where we're trying to balance both the
tensions and the opportunities. And I know we have
quite a few people in the audience who are thinking
about these same things. You're all in
interesting roles where you have to think
about both the internal and how you coordinate
with a larger ecosystem. So I'd like to understand
what are some of the best practices that you have and that
you can share with us on how you're organizing, how you're
thinking about organizing for impact, things
that we might be able to take away and experiment
with our own organizations. Ilan, I know you're doing some
really interesting things, even with how you're thinking about
how to organize the programs. Maybe you could start there. ILAN GUR: Sure, yeah. So I mentioned this
people at the heart. The phrase we use
often is people then projects as our
approach for ARIA. And the basic
thinking behind that is when you think about how
we fund research for society, it's very easy to fund
the well-known problems. And it's very easy to fund the
well-understood disciplines. And so a lot of our base load
funding goes to those things. But ARIA was really set up
to do something different. And so how do you cut through
that and do something different? I like to say, if you want
to do something different, you need people who will
see things differently. And so for us, the
approach starts with a set of
scientists and engineers that we recruit into
ARIA for a limited term of three to five years. And their job is
actually to develop a thesis, very specifically
around where we can mobilize, not one researcher,
or one discipline, one institutional type,
but what I like to think of as a constellation
of research projects that, together, can cross
TRLs and disciplines. LILA IBRAHIM:
Wait, what's a TRL? ILAN GUR: Technology
Readiness Levels. It's actually not something
we like to talk about, because you want
to mix these modes. But can cross these
things, but in pursuit of a really focused target. And so some of the
examples of that, we have a couple of programs
that are very much thinking about innovation in AI itself. Suraj, one of our
program directors who is an entrepreneur
electrical engineer, his insight that drove the thesis of his
program, which is called Scaling Compute, it actually goes
to some of the remarks earlier around how do
we scale the compute, given the resource demands and
the geopolitical constraints. His thesis is that AI
is really interesting, because it's a limited number
of mathematical primitives that potentially gives
us enormous value. And interestingly,
when you think of things like
gradient descent, they sort of rhyme with the way
nature does energy minimization. So the idea is, could we use
AI computation as a foothold to think about entirely
new ways to do computation, based on how physical
systems and nature operates. We have another program
director-- very different-- Davidad, who's a mathematician. His observation
was that, actually, formal mathematics,
that community, is not really integrated
into the AI community. But potentially, as
capabilities develop, we may have more and more
robust models of the systems where AI agents are working,
where we could actually use formal mathematics
to guarantee the outputs, either
deterministically or probabilistically,
of an AI agent. And that would
allow you to use AI for really critical
applications, the electricity grid or
aspects of health care, and then potentially continue to
be more and more reliant on AI for things that we care about. Each of those starts
as sort of a thesis and is now funding a dozen
different teams across academia, industry, nonprofits to try
and achieve those goals. LILA IBRAHIM: Yeah, interesting. So kind of back to being able
to ask interesting questions with different perspectives. Angela, if I may pass it to you. Any best practices
or things that you're seeing and thinking
about on how to organize for maximizing impact? ANGELA MCLEAN:
Well, I think this is the moment to talk about the
government's missions, actually. So the government that came to
power in early July has said, we're going to organize a large
amount of government effort through pursuing five missions
to improve things in society. See if I can remember
what they are. They're growth, by which we mean
economic growth, safer streets, opportunities for all,
clean energy by 2030. And what am I missing? I'm missing one. I've got opportunities. ILAN GUR: Health. ANGELA MCLEAN: Health,
NHS fit for the future. Thank you. And I think those, actually,
are a good place to start. So if you don't
work in Whitehall, one of the things
you should realize is that the natural
comfort zone in Whitehall is in my department. So it's quite, quite
siloed, not completely. And at its best, it's not. And one of the aims
of working that way is that we should
look at the problem and pull from
whichever department can help solve that problem. I think that for this set of
techniques, the questions that start to arise from the missions
should be really, really interesting motivators for
the work that needs doing. And actually, I'm going to put
a plea out to this audience. I think what you will hear
from my lovely colleagues in Whitehall are some really
sensible, and perhaps, quite limited questions. So I think, for example,
the Safer Streets Mission is probably going to
come up with a call for, let's have much
better maps of crime. Let's use AI to gather
all the information we've got about where crime happens. And that's good. That's fine. I think that'd be a
good thing to have. But I think it would
be really great if people in this
community would help us, government, lift our heads up
and think of something much more ambitious. And you'll do this
much better than me. The one I was thinking
about last night was, let's have some really
good predictors of crime. So the real life example is
that certain police forces know that on the night when
the local sports team loses, after the pubs shut,
there is a set of women who will get beaten up when
their husband gets home. So what do they do about it? You send a policeman
around, who's then sitting at
the kitchen table when the husband gets home. So he goes to bed without
beating his wife up. It's a win. But we could surely
do better than that. And I was challenged last night. Well, we know the
outcomes aren't always great when we do these things. So we have to have
a real debate about, well, if we had good
predictive models about crime, how shall we use them. And how shall we guard against
the biases that will inevitably be captured in them? But I think that,
over and over again, what I'm hearing coming out for
analysis for the missions is good, doable stuff. And I think we also need people
to say, yeah, please do that, but balance the electricity
grid, difficult problem, needs doing. But also-- and
then please tell us what are the but alsos that
we should be thinking about. LILA IBRAHIM: And how do you
create that space for yourself as a leader to go from the
day to day to think about some of the higher level questions? ANGELA MCLEAN: I walk
out of the office. [LAUGHTER] And I go places. So in the summer, I used
to literally go and lie under a tree in the park. Because well, that's a
good place to be on my own. I've got a little plan
for the winter, actually. I'm thinking, I
don't know if I can find some way of getting
into Westminster Abbey without queuing and then paying. But I'm thinking that would
be a nice place to go and sit. LILA IBRAHIM: OK,
well, maybe somewhere in the audience, someone
has an idea for you. ANGELA MCLEAN: Yeah. But I mean, I think we all
know that sort of internalizing and chewing ideas up and things
is work and requires time. So I rather militantly
make that time. LILA IBRAHIM: Yeah,
and the space, finding the space to think
about these bigger topics. Paul, what about
you, best practices? How are you thinking
about organizing? I mean, you've got a couple of
different hats you're wearing. PAUL NURSE: Well, I think
science has commonalities. So let's start there. And then we will look at
the diversified nature of delivering it. I mean, science is an activity. It's the pursuit of truth. It relies on evidence, on
data, on reasoned argument. Mr. Trump, remember all of those
things in the coming weeks, please. But it is different in
the ways that it operates, depending where it is on
the spectrum of discovery versus application. And that, sometimes, is missed
by our political masters. They can mix it all
together, understandably, because discovery is
anarchic, as I said. Applications are more directed. And that leads to something
that's more bottom up versus something more top down. Sharing the ways
in which they work, but also operating in
somewhat different ways. What else is
commonality is they all require excellent leadership,
both scientific and managerial, not necessarily always
in the same person. But we need both. What we don't want
are scientists who are third class
business people trying to run it or the reverse. Secondly, we need
proper finances. We haven't talked about that. And that's really important. What I've called proper
end to end funding, that is looking
at the total cost of a research activity,
rather than simply a more limited direct cost. And that's important. And thirdly, which
reflects partly how I started, the diversity
of different organizations that we need to actually
produce the whole spectrum of activities. We have great
universities, which are producing things in a
completely anarchic way, often, but exceptionally important. We have great institutes,
which can sometimes be rather unfocused,
like the institute I run, or very focused, depending
on what you want to deliver. And then, of course, you
have commercial activities, which are bound to be more
focused, because they're trying to deliver. And we all have to be
tolerant of one another, permeable with one another,
and actually delivering all that endeavor. The danger comes when we think
there's only one way to do it within that spectrum. And the key word is the
diversity and approach across the board. ILAN GUR: Hear, hear. LILA IBRAHIM: Since I asked
Angela a personal question, if you don't mind my asking,
how do you think about, how do you make sure that
you get diverse perspectives? Not only the different
hats that you wear, but are there
things that you do, Paul, to make sure that
you're not ending up with too much insider bias? Paul, do you have any
thoughts, or Ilan, on that? PAUL NURSE: On diversity
in how we bring it? LILA IBRAHIM: Yes. PAUL NURSE: Yeah. Well, it's more straightforward
in the institute I run, because I abolished
departments and divisions. You can't do that
in a university, because you've got
to teach something. I mean, it's just
much more difficult. I mixed up everybody
together, so that you're not just next to people who do
things similarly, and introduced turnover longer
than 3 to 5 years, but for the majority, younger
career group leaders, 10 years, maybe 12, and very tough review
for principals like me, which means you introduce turnover
into the organization, which is a danger in these
sorts of institutions that tend to get ossified. And the final thing that
we did, which is different, is to provide very high
quality technical cores that share everybody,
that serve everybody. And that's something
which industry does. But universities have
been underfunded and find it very difficult to do. So I think what I'm
saying is there are things to learn from each other. But there are certain
practices which really do make things work well. LILA IBRAHIM: Yeah, there is. I had a mentor who used
to say, ideas are easy. And we know that
ideas are not easy. But ideas are easy, and that
execution is everything. But it takes a team to win. So I think your point
about a manager, how do you bring people
together with a shared context, asking the right
questions, and being able to really push
some of the ideas forward to make
sure that they are. PAUL NURSE: And
just to repeat what I said a bit earlier,
mixing people up and using social scientists to help us. I mean, we need advice. We need help. And we sometimes sneer at that. And that's a mistake. ANGELA MCLEAN: And actually,
can I jump in there-- LILA IBRAHIM: Oh, please. ANGELA MCLEAN: --and speak
up for social science. I mean, I think, of course,
it's incredibly attractive to use these very, very powerful
tools to address natural science questions. But I think, also, we
should be thinking about-- perhaps, you should be
thinking about how can we use these tools to completely
revolutionize social science. We've got so much data now about
where we are, what we spend, what we claim to like. And the point Ilan made
at dinner last night was, well, crikey, couldn't we
do something a bit more useful with it than we actually do. Of course, he doesn't say
crikey, because he's not a Brit. ILAN GUR: Not yet. I'll work on it. ANGELA MCLEAN: But there's a
revolution that would really make a huge difference,
I think, again, used carefully and wisely. ILAN GUR: I'll add a point here. If you've been to
The Crick, if you've had the pleasure of
visiting The Crick, the first thing
you'll notice is it is a space, very intentionally
designed by Paul, to be one that encourages
just enormous numbers of serendipitous collisions
between the researchers, across all the
jumble of anarchy, but also external guests. I remember waiting for
a meeting with Paul and running into someone and
talking about their science. And I think we benefit
from the same at ARIA. I was talking to
Eric, who was saying, oh, you have one program
on AI hardware or software, but you have another
program forecasting climate tipping points. Those folks are probably
having a great time talking to each other. And the communities are. And I think it goes back
to the people thing. It just did spark for me. Probably the best app that
all of us would benefit from is an AI algorithm. Slack has this
feature where it can do a lunch roulette or a coffee
roulette where you find someone. LILA IBRAHIM: Yeah,
we did in there. PAUL NURSE: All correct, except
it wasn't all designed by me. ILAN GUR: Oh, there we go. No, I didn't say all designed
by you, maybe inspired. But find us an AI
algorithm that optimizes the productivity and the
effectiveness of some of these collisions, and
we'll adopt it immediately. LILA IBRAHIM: And
the environment really makes a difference. And I do like this
point about how do you bring in the social
sciences as part of this, too. And I think it's going to be
really increasingly important, because how do we build trust
with society, at a time when the outcomes are
both so speculative and yet could be
so transformative? And trust is a very
big topic in the world, as Tom kicked off this
afternoon's session with. I'd love to hear any thoughts
that you have on how can we think about trust
and accountability in the current
global environment. ANGELA MCLEAN: Well, how about
finding a way for more people to understand why AlphaFold
is really important. The first evening that I
think your first nature paper came out, I was already CSA
in the Ministry of Defense. And so I sent an email out. I sent an email to my
senior colleagues saying, you should remember this day. This is really a big day. And they all wrote back
to me and they said, oh, that's so sweet of you No idea
what you're talking about. [LAUGHTER] And these are highly,
highly educated people. LILA IBRAHIM: Did you resend
your email recently or? ANGELA MCLEAN: So I think
that's a great example, because there are so many useful
things that will come out of it. It's probably got a
bit less of the, ooh, how much do they know about
me that the social science examples are going to
trouble us all about. And I just don't think
most educated people in this country-- this is what I know-- understand what's coming. I just don't think they
know the potential. LILA IBRAHIM: Well, when we
decided to co-host this forum, our intent was, we
do feel like we're at such an important point. And that if we can connect
other experts in the field, how might we be able to help
amplify the good work that's happening, and also accelerate
some of the outcomes. Because if we wait to do some of
this work next year or the year after, as we've
been talking about, everything is moving
so quickly, will we have missed the opportunity? And we should be
thinking more responsibly as stewards of this technology
and from the science field to AI of how we can collaborate
now, so that we can have the type of impact by
the time that there's a broader understanding
of the work we're doing. ILAN GUR: I might just
pick up on the trust point, because it ends
up being something that we've had to really build
into the foundations of ARIA. If your mission is to explore
the edge of the possible and the frontiers of
technology and science, it inevitably puts you
into a place where there are some really hard questions. And Jennifer was
on stage earlier. Your leadership in thinking
about the hard social and ethical questions around
CRISPR is really inspiring. In thinking about
for our model, there is something really
powerful about having this people-first model
that allows us to do that slightly differently. So one is when we recruit
program directors, we really are looking at a, are
they intrinsically motivated to create benefit for society. B, are they sort of adaptive
people, open to new ideas? And when we decided-- I think, surprisingly,
people thought like DARPA, we might be very
secretive in our programs. And we actually decided
the best thing to do would be to build in public. So for each of our theses,
we publish the theses as soon as we have
the first draft of it. We get a lot of input
and really diverse views on what are people worried
about, both the science, meaning, oh, actually,
this is too impossible or some of the social and
ethical aspects of it. And that then allows us
to build into the program different aspects. One of our programs is
focused on thinking about whether there are new ways-- I'll just give an
example-- to interface with the nervous system
at a different level. We've learned recently that a
lot of neurological disorders are circuit level
disorders of the brain. And when you think
about neurotech, it's all sort of about an
insertion of electrodes into one part of the brain. So Jacques, our
program director, has been thinking about
are there elegant ways to interface with the neural
system at the circuit level and be able to
create therapeutics and therapies for these
broad range of conditions. Initially, he really was pointed
towards having technologies that were low impact, in
terms of a real intervention. And what he learned was there's
very little patient data on this. So the interesting
question is, which is the bigger issue
for a patient, is it wearing a
helmet on your head all day long to get
your brain signals, or is it a one hour
outpatient procedure? And this is a really
interesting, tough question. And so as part of
that program, we're actually funding
some social science and some patient engagement
to think about that and feed back into the
research we're doing. LILA IBRAHIM: Great. And Paul, trust, accountability? PAUL NURSE: Yeah,
I think we've got to think about how we
connect with the public, not the experts, not those
who understand it, not necessarily the NGOs who are
talking about it, the public. And there, I think deliberative
democracy has a role to play. And I'm reminded of the
fiasco around GM crops, for example, when
nobody who was actually trying to introduce GM crops
had really properly talked to Joe and Joanna Public. And I was involved
with the Royal Society, actually, with some
deliberative, democratic experiments, really at
the time, just talking to those off the street,
explaining what the issues are and then getting the feedback. What was interesting about that
was the main answer we got about why they didn't like GM
crops-- it will become relevant in a moment-- was they didn't want to
eat food with genes in it. Now, that is something that a
scientist would never think of, of course. But that's what bothered them. And yet, of course, nobody was
actually dealing with this. So when we're thinking about
artificial intelligence and everything around
it, let's go out, talk to Joe and
Joanna Public and ask, what do they think about it at
this moment, what worries them, and then think about how
we communicate with them. If we don't get
down there, we'll find all those
who've got opinions and all those who have an
ax to grind responding. And we will not connect
with the public. LILA IBRAHIM: So meeting the
public with where they're at and helping them,
bringing the expertise, hearing what they have to
say, and bringing that in, so that the technology,
the research, the science happens with them, not to them. We have a couple
of minutes left. And I would like to
throw in a bonus round. This is a panel on
collaboration for impact. And you're all leading, whether
the government, The Crick, ARIA. What is a collaboration
that you are excited about or would like to make happen,
just as a pitch to the audience here? Who would like to go first? ANGELA MCLEAN: OK, I'm going to
build on what Paul said earlier about truth. I think we need a
bit of a moment, about an alliance
for science here. Not all truths have equal value. Some truths are more
useful than others. And I think we might
need to band together to be very, very clear that
just being the person who shouts the loudest does not necessarily
make your truth the more valuable one. And I think we might be in for a
bit of a tough ride for a while. And let's just remember how
far the scientific method has brought us. LILA IBRAHIM: That's wonderful. ILAN GUR: I'll maybe
share one that is-- we're running a lot of
experiments at ARIA, both in obviously the research,
but in how we do the research. One of the things we
realized is ARIA'S mandate is not just to do interesting
science that leads to technology breakthroughs, but to have those
breakthroughs radically benefit the future of the UK. And the question
becomes, well, OK, we're excited in our programs
about generating these catalytic counterfactual
research breakthroughs. When one of them
arises, how is it going to get out into the world? And our hypothesis is
that the biggest driver for that translation
will be people who are driven to see that impact. And so we think a lot about
science entrepreneurship. And so we've created
a set of partnerships that we call
activation partners. And the idea is to work
with people outside of us as a government
funding agency, who are in the area of
commercialization, and translation,
and entrepreneurship and have them run alongside
us in all of these spaces to inject talent, and
skills, and resources. So DeepMind is one of our
activation partners, which is really exciting to think
about how we can use AI, and in general, the
commercial expertise to lift up the impact of
everything we're doing. But we have a number of others. And they really are
raising ambitions and finding people who
want to drive this impact and help them move forward. LILA IBRAHIM: Great. Paul? PAUL NURSE: I'm a biologist. I want to know what life is. That's my central mission. And I think we will
understand that. And we heard it from
the previous panel in understanding
how a cell works. And biology is based on
both chemistry, and physics, and information. And we're now at a cusp
in being able to put those things together. But we have to move on from
where we are at the moment, because biology generates
often small data, unstructured and unrelated data. And we don't yet have the
methodologies or the ways to properly do that
in the same ways we can with large
language models and so on. We need an advance
in the way we think about artificial intelligence
to be able to interrogate the small, muddled data that
people like me produce and turn it into a broader understanding. I think we have a
possibility there if we get information
working properly with the molecular biologists,
the molecular geneticists. LILA IBRAHIM: Well, excellent. Well, with that,
lots to think about. Thank you all for sharing your
expertise, and observations, and wishes with the audience. And really, I think
today, hopefully, is just the start of this next chapter
of collaboration for impact. Thank you. PAUL NURSE: Thank you. ILAN GUR: Thanks a lot. [APPLAUSE]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: W3-NBQJIKZ0 (https://youtu.be/W3-NBQJIKZ0) ===


[APPLAUSE] PAUL HOFHEINZ: Thank you to
everyone who's come here today to listen to this presentation. Look, I have two rules of
thumb, which are pretty simple, and I'm breaking
both of them today. One of them is never speak to
a group that knows a lot more about a topic than
you do, and there wasn't a lot I could do
about that except not come. I just wanted to say the
expertise and knowledge in the room is formidable,
and I've really enjoyed listening
and sharing with all of you here this morning. The other rule of thumb
is never, ever, ever speak after Tom Friedman. But I didn't have a lot
of choice in that matter, and I just wanted
to say, Tom, you've inspired me throughout my
life in multiple areas, and I really
appreciate what you had to say this morning, including
the open ended question at the end of it, which is
the one I think that we all need to reflect on and start
finding adequate answers to as we move forward. Look, this session is about
building the infrastructure for success, and I think
that's clear enough what we'll be talking about. I maybe just start with a couple
of brief reflections on this before we invite
the speakers in. Look, John Donne once said
that no man is an island, and I can't think
of a better way to set this discussion in
motion than with that thought, because what we're talking
about today is not just what happens in
laboratories, it's also what happens outside of them. It's about the infrastructures
that we can build, the programs that we can put in
place, the communities that we can build, the way
that we reach out to people and involve them in our
achievements and our findings and socialize those
things, the regulations. It's really a very widespread,
all society movement. And I'm delighted in
particular with, of course, the recent Google
DeepMind Nobel citation, because if that was not only
a celebration of science and what technology
can do, but it was also an extraordinary
collaboration involving organizations, some of which
you know here in this room. The European Molecular Biology
Laboratory did a tremendous job curating data. And I'm just wondering
if science in the future isn't just going to be about
discoveries in the laboratory. Obviously not. It's going to be about
how well we work together to realize them and spread
them and share them. Look, we have a very
distinguished panel with some very unique
experiences in this area. I started out with John Donne. No man is an island. A lovely quotation, but
a little bit out of date and a little bit out of
fashion, so perhaps I'll try a more modern version of it. Hillary Clinton wrote a book
called "It Takes a Village," and it's that village that I
would like to talk to today. What do we need to do to make
that village a happy, equitable, well-run, well-managed, fair-- I could come up with
a dozen other words that we could put in it. How do we make the village in
which we live a happy place? Both one that drives the
scientific discovery, which is first and foremost, what
we're here about, but make sure that it's there
for all to share. And Professor Berhe,
maybe I'll start with you. You have a phenomenal
track record. You've done an enormous
amount of things in this area to reach exactly those goals. Why don't you tell us a little
bit about that, and then we'll dive in with some
questions a bit later? ASMERET ASEFAW BERHE: Great. Thank you. So let me start by
saying, obviously, we're at an inflection point. Advances in AI and
across many, many areas in science and
technology are proceeding at an incredible
pace, which I think is also an important
time then to think about, how can we make
sure that we don't repeat the mistakes of
the past, especially with science and technology? And how do we make
sure that we are not leaving a certain segment
of the human society behind and expanding
the digital divide even further because of these
new innovations in AI and other things
that we're creating? And that has to come
from multiple ways. Of course, there is human
resource development type of questions that we
can ask, making sure that there are resources
and opportunities for people to take advantage of this. We talked about this
today earlier of AI and other systems is available. But to me, it's also important
to make sure that we're not just making a certain
segment of the society or certain parts of the world
users of the technologies that the other part creates. But how do we make
sure that the ability to create the tools
in the first place is available, the opportunities
for education and expanding avenues for discovery is shared
by all as much as possible? So how do we do better
in that respect, I think, is very important. And the other part
to me is how do we make sure that a certain
segment of society, again, does not continue to
suffer even more so because of these advances
and discoveries? And there's nothing
I think when it comes to AI that brings this
concern more than the energy demand and the
resource demand of AI and these pretty large
computing systems that we're all depending on and
really, really eager to expand. And so I want to make this a
call of action that it's not just for certain people
who work on the Earth and environmental side of things
or policy or sustainability, but I think it's
critical that all of us think about the efficiency
here, the sustainability of these technologies. Because if we don't
do that, even if, say, AI companies that are
involved in this space obviously are investing a
lot in renewable energy, and hopefully, that will spur
more and more faster transition away from fossil fuels. But is that enough? Because the reality is more
access to these opportunities means more people using
them, and so it's not going to be enough
to just create a small amount of
renewable energy or a small incremental
increase in sustainability. It actually has to lead
to a transformative change in the way we use these
systems, we design them, and really think. And the office that I used to
lead until recently, that's a major part of how we
thought about investing in the next
generation computing. How do we make sure that
they break everything that we think is possible
in terms of sustainability? Many years ago, over
a decade ago now, when the Office of Science
invested in the Exascale Computing Project that launched
the exascale era of computing in the US. There was an explicit
sustainability goal in there. Many people thought that
could not be achieved. That was an
unrealistic goal that was set for political purposes. But guess what? We achieved those, and
those sustainability goals were achieved. And I think we need that
kind of ambitious goals right now to start this. PAUL HOFHEINZ: Thank you. Before we move on to
our other panelists, let me just follow up
briefly with a question, because you led some
extraordinary pioneering projects in your
time in government. Could you say a few words
about those concretely, not just the theory behind it? Tell us exactly what
you did, because I think that those stories might
be of use to people in the room. ASMERET ASEFAW BERHE: Yeah. So there's a lot in
energy efficiency, but there's maybe one
that I could talk about. A fairly new project that
we launched in the past year is something called the High
Performance Data Facility, which is in recognition of the fact
that the Office of Science National Scientific
User Facilities produce way more scientific
data than any other entity in the world. So there's a massive
amount of data generated from-- whether it's particle
accelerators, light sources, the genomic facilities, the
chemistry facilities, materials, everything you can imagine,
the national use of facilities. So an innovative project
that was just launched is to really rethink
about, how do we take advantage of all
this data, move it around to where it needs to go,
make it accessible for real time AI and other computational
applications, and do it in a way that
democratizes access to this data? So federal funded research
is already open access, but do it even more accessible
to a lot more people, and also get it to the high
performance computing facilities in an efficient manner
so that it can be used for AI and other things. So there's a lot of efforts of
this sort that were launched. I think we need to make sure
that those kinds of things continue even at an
accelerated pace. PAUL HOFHEINZ: And
provides the data in a language that people can
understand and use and preserves the integrity of
the data, including privacy and other things. It's a big challenge, but
I'm glad you took it on. Professor Tijani, quite often
at meetings that I host, we have what we call
a frequent flyer award, which is the person
who traveled the longest way to be with us. Ordinarily, I would
give it to you, but I happen to
bump into my friend Peter Gluckman in the
audience a moment ago who, for those of
you who don't know, is the former science advisor
to the prime minister of New Zealand. So, Peter, you get the
frequent flyer award. But, Minister Tijani,
you're on the panel. Tell us a little bit about
how you see these problems and these issues from Nigeria. And not just what
your vision is, although we're
interested in that, but what you've done about it. Concretely as a minister,
how you move into society and give us this infrastructure
to create good social outcomes? BOSUN TIJANI: Absolutely. Thank you so much, Paul. I think I have to
start by appreciating Tom for the picture you
painted, because this is something that
became my reality when I became Minister in Nigeria. The fact that when you look at
science ranking of countries in the world, and you compare
this to economic development and growth, you can
see direct correlation, literally direct correlation. But you find that
in Global South, you don't see strong
application of science in actually trying to address
many of the challenges that we face. You talked about high
dimensional problems. I think I saw [INAUDIBLE]
problems as well in my country and quite a
number of countries in Africa. These are problems where
we think we already have the answers to them. But the reality is that the
answers and the requirements for addressing these problems
are constantly shifting, so you can't necessarily
take that answer that we think we have on. For instance, if you take how
the UK managed to get to a point where quality of education is at
where they would like it to be, that's not something you can
transplant to Nigeria, a country that's adding five million
new people every year, literally with certain
spaces that you can't govern, because those spaces
are just not connected. So you have to be thinking of
new ways of actually solving that problem. And even what we knew 10, 15
years ago about fixing education in Africa is not
the solution today. And for me, I think that's where
science is extremely important. And whilst we may not
have invested enough in building the
base for science, I think artificial
intelligence offers that unique opportunity
for us to now be able to get more
insights and be able to process these
insights in manners that can hit how government is
looking to solve these problems. But the challenge
we have despite that is the fact that we're
living in a world where the development of AI
in itself is quite skilled, and we understand nations
have invested over the years. So the challenge
is for me, how do I accelerate government
efforts to ensure that whilst the investment
may not be there, that the things that we
need to do at the minute to quickly accelerate how AI
can help us through development, that we don't leave them behind? And I find three
things that I think are extremely important that
the world should actually pay attention to when it
comes to AI and Global South. And the first one for me
is inclusion in data set [INAUDIBLE]. If we have this fantastic
opportunity around how science can help us do what
Tom was talking about with the farmers in India,
but the data set that we have is not really inclusive
enough to actually tell us the reality of countries like
Nigeria or Ghana or Rwanda, then we're going to limit
how science can actually help to solve these [INAUDIBLE]
problems, which we all need to address. Because as much as Europe
may be aging in population, countries in Africa-- my country, the
average age is 16.9. This country is growing at
five million people a year. That's going to be one of the
sources of talent in future. The workforce of the future
will come from Africa, so we need to help strengthen
that, in my own opinion. So I think that gap in
inclusion in AI data sets will limit how artificial
intelligence can support science to help us accelerate
development. The second one, which
I think is important, and we all talk
about infrastructure, is also the fact
that infrastructure will lead to two things
from what we're seeing. One is agitation for
data sovereignty, which means countries
will start to say, we want to be able
to keep our data. We don't want you to collect,
harvest, and take them away. And what we get
with that is also the limitation that
will bring to helping us to strengthen AI to be able
to do what we want it to do. And the other part is also
the science in itself-- the development of science and
how it affects economic growth is not just linked to
what is done elsewhere and what you bring in. It's also the ability
of local scientists to be able to participate. So if they don't have access
to this infrastructure, it means we cannot also
encourage local scientists to actually do context-based
research activities that can help to also lead development. So that's something I find
quite troubling that I've been also been working. And the third part for
me is also the fact that a lot of what
is known about us is not coded in a manner
that AI can actually use. So we have too much dark data
on a lot of Global South nations that we need to be
looking for smart ways to digitize what is known so
that we can make them available, and they can help us deepen
the quality of most models that people now use to come up
with solutions to challenges. So I think these three
things broadly are things that I'm worried about. What we've done is to not
focus on the limitations of our reality at
the minute, but also say to ourselves that we
live in a connected world. Nigeria as a country has a
strong diaspora community, so we actually use an AI model
to find all Nigerians working in artificial intelligence. We took all the
publications, I think, for the last 30
or so years in AI, and we use a name
library to find those. It's extremely accurate. So we brought about
100 of them to Abuja to actually help us craft
our national AI strategy. We took in civil society
folks, researchers locally, and they worked together for a
week to build that foundation, and that foundation is now what
we're building on as a nation to shape the direction of
artificial intelligence in the country. The other thing
we're doing as well is we're now building what
we call the AI Trust, which is more of building a community
of trustees, folks who can support how AI
develops in the country, not just leaving it to the
capacity of government, because this is also a big
issue in Global South countries. Most governments are
playing catch up with AI. If you come to Europe, even
in countries where you may not have the leadership
from government, you have academic
institutions that are articulating where society
should be going around the AI. So government, in a way,
is playing catch up. But I think we're getting there. There's more conversation
and inclusion in conversations like this. But whilst we may still be
far from actually ensuring that we can include
those voices, help understand this reality,
and collectively start to partner towards
addressing them, I think we're still far
from where we should be. But we're on the journey. PAUL HOFHEINZ: Well,
that's fascinating. You mentioned the
question of talent, including the enormous
number of young people, 16 years old, that
you have in Nigeria. And I know from speaking to
you ahead of this meeting that you're making
efforts to attract talent to Nigeria as a competence
center in this particular area. Could you say a few
words about that? Concretely, what are you
doing in those areas? And I know you have a
background as the founder of the Co-Creation
Hub of Nigeria. It's an area that I'm personally
very interested in as well. What are you what are you doing
to attract talent and also, crucially, to support it? You mentioned that word,
too, not just have people, but allow them to develop in the
way that they can and should. BOSUN TIJANI: Absolutely. I think, Paul, the
challenge for us is in helping to
develop the talent. I think because we're quite
youthful, extremely driven people, Nigerians, so we do
know that the passion is there for people to be part
of the global economy. So when I was appointed, the
first thing we did was to-- we actually started the
talent accelerator program that is focused on
training technical talent. We think it's the largest
in the world at the minute, and the government is
heavily invested in that. And Google is also
supporting us, particularly on the artificial
intelligence aspect of it. And we're getting local
companies to invest in it. And the goal, really,
is to recognize the fact that you can't leapfrog the
application of technology in any society if you don't
have the workforce to back it. I think for us, that's
the first thing. The second is that there's a
shortage in technology workforce globally across Europe. You go to countries
like Germany. I think the chancellor
came to Nigeria, and he was quite
clear about the fact that there was a massive
talent gap in Germany, and Germany is open
to people coming in. So we'd also like to become a
net exporter of talent as well. So if we can train 3 millions
people, perhaps keep 50% of them locally to help us power-- [LAUGHTER] --our economy, the goal is that
we can export the remaining 50% And I think India is a perfect
example of a nation that has done this really well. PAUL HOFHEINZ: It's
quite a vision. Maybe later in the conversation,
we'll come back to the question, how can we help? Fabian-- I'm sorry. Professor Doctor Doctor Fabian. [LAUGHTER] Respect, lots of it. You have led several advanced
projects here in Europe, and I'd love to hear a
little bit about that, about these projects you lead,
and what breakthroughs you are hoping and you still
think they might yield. But then let's look
at the larger picture. They operate in a context. What do you need to succeed? How can we help
people like yourself, institutes like
the one you lead, to deliver success and
good social outcomes for the rest of us? FABIAN J. THEIS: We heard a
lot of points here already, but I think in the
end, a lot of us scientists are driven
by natural curiosity. I think you saw this all the
time this morning at stage. So in order to bring all
these elements together, to make that succeed, you
need to have that environment. I guess if you want to
be sort of very naive, I think the Holy Trinity, if
you want to call it, of AI, is data, compute, and then
that algorithmic part. I mean, these things come
together in various ways to then create that wave. And in computer vision, this
was already 10 years ago, because ImageNet was there. And now, we're sort of a bit
later, and we see AlphaFold. And one thing we are
sort of pushing forward now with this potential new
era of foundation models is to build now a
representation of cell biology. This is, I think, a potentially
quite exciting moment in time because those data sets-- for example, in the OC
of the Human Cell Atlas, it really tries to-- and I think sort of organization
wise, also quite interesting, there's a sort of very
broad, inclusive type of approach to get data
sets from across the world into big representations first. So really, just
databases, but then also make them build
into one big model. In order to build that model,
you need to have the data sets, but then you also need to
have the algorithmic aspects to emerge and reduce this
variation across the data sets. I think [INAUDIBLE]
in the morning was mentioning already
self-supervised learning. This was stuff that the
community in comp bio has been talking
about for decades. Data integration,
multiscale modeling, these things have been
out for a long time. But I think, quite
frankly, maybe data, but also model haven't
been really there yet to bring all of that together. But now, I think we're
really at one of these-- how did Tom call it? Tipping points where we could
potentially now really start building one such model. And this model, of course,
could-- by the way, I think a very nice
diversifying effect, because those are typically
then broadly served and really bring that world
class knowledge that's encapsulated in these models
to people across the world, and then they can
build upon that. In order to make
that happen, I mean, obviously talent is
a key thing, and I'd be happy to discuss a
bit later about that also what we've been doing
here, because we don't have five million people
coming out every year again. And I do get the point about
education and maybe [INAUDIBLE] institutions being here, but
that's a really crucial point. I think one of the reasons
I went to Helmholtz and one of the other
places, such as [INAUDIBLE] is a bit more encapsulated,
is this interaction point. I think the type
of talent and type of people that we
need is people that have this expertise,
both in the data, but also in the algorithmic
part to speak these languages, so you need to enable that. So that's that part. Compute. I think that's an obvious one. We're not yet on that LLM scale,
but I think the type of compute that we inherently
use and need-- and I think, Asmeret, you have a
lot of expertise in large scale compute. I mean, it's getting
in that direction. And if you now want
to make it equitable, not everyone has a bunch
of GPUs at their home or at the research institutions. So we've been heavily
investing into that. But then to roll it out,
I think that's where this sort of academic industry
partnerships become a big role. But maybe just to wrap that
point, so for Human Cell Atlas, we've been really trying to
build the next integrated model-- you can call
it a virtual cell-- that then answers to a whole
bunch of perturbations, potentially supporting academics
to plan the next experiments. We spoke this morning
about lab in the loop. I think it has been
mentioned a few times. But then also to
use these models to then potentially map
disease on top of it and see where it goes to
understand these perturbations on top of these. I think these models will
be able to deliver that. PAUL HOFHEINZ: Great, thank you. Can you tell us a little bit
about the Deepcell project that you lead? And just mindful,
you're speaking to a room full of scientists,
so hit us with it. Yeah, FABIAN J. THEIS:
I appreciate that. You should never
give a scientist the opportunity to talk
about their own project. [LAUGHTER] I'll be consistent. PAUL HOFHEINZ: Keep it short. FABIAN J. THEIS: So
what we aim to do is not just build a sort
of computer representation of a cell with its
steady state, but then add temporal and particular
perturbation of behavior on top of that. And that sounds sort
of a bit abstract, but if you think
about it, I mean, we talk about the
breadth of applications. I think you saw this morning
what DeepMind is working on. And I think in a
sense, in physics, if I throw a ball
over there, I could calculate where it would go, so
I do have some laws of motion. Of course, I can
recover them from data. You saw this in
structural biology, but I think cell biology
will be the next thing. We don't have that type
of basic equations. What are they? Can we discover
them from the data? Well, in Deepcell,
what we try to do is we add multiple omics
levels, but put cells also into tissue context and add
image-based observations, two disciplines that are very
separate, into one bigger data structure. We have a lot of ways how to
do the basic infrastructure for that. But now, we can put them
into a bigger model, thereby first supporting our
experimental partners to plan next experiment, but then
also to work together with computational pathologists
or people in that direction that really get clinical
data in and then see, what is the shape, the
organization of my tissue helping what is diagnosis,
but then potentially also a perturbation
to bring cells back on the right track
of a healthy cell? PAUL HOFHEINZ: It's fascinating,
and it sounds very promising as well. But to return to my original
remarks, no man is an island. How can the community
outside of you facilitate research of the
type that you're discussing? And I don't just mean how,
but what is the best way? Because there's 100 different
things people can do. What would you like to see
from the community around you in this field? FABIAN J. THEIS: I think one
important thing is really large scale data sets
that are time resolved and perturbations that
are happening often in very isolated places but
can be brought together. And there, we are a bit
in a lucky situation that our genes are usually
called the same thing, whereas in maybe other settings,
it might be sort of contraband if you have geospatial
data or things like that. So you have ways of putting
all these data sets together. But what I would like
to see, community, in addition to producing
these data sets, is then to agree on a set
of benchmarks and metrics that you had in CAASPP before. We've been running at NeurIPS, I
think, for the past four years, a data science competition
where you bring in the community to work on these tasks, but
they're not as hard to put down, so we need to expand
these metrics. We need to put in
more data sets. We need to get more attention
to these competitions. And that's, by the way, also
I think a nice equalizer, because young talent
from all around the world is then going to these and
then taking the next step. PAUL HOFHEINZ: Create
a common language where we can all
talk to each other, as I said earlier,
without losing the integrity of the data. Professor Berhe, I
know you've worked very hard in your
work over the years in making sure that there's
an inclusion line there. How does one do that? Apart from bold
statements at conferences, how do you actually bake
that into the kind of work that we're talking about here? ASMERET ASEFAW BERHE: I think
the bottom line is resources. Genius is scattered all over
the place, as some might say. Access to resources and
opportunities is not. And simply speaking, I think
that is the most important thing we have to do is access to
resources and opportunities. And this is important for
many reasons, including what the minister stated earlier
is a very important issue now. We have powerful
computational systems that could do a lot of
things, but the data that they're based on is not
just incomplete, but sometimes even biased across multiple
kind of axis of diversity that you can imagine in
very not helpful ways. We've learned a lot of
lessons in the health sector about what happens when we base
our knowledge on very, very biased data sets, and
the thing we do not want to do going forward
is repeat those mistakes. So how do we critically invest
in actually filling in data, training in-- and we can't,
obviously, export people from the north to go
to the Global South and continuously extract
data and information. There has to be a real kind of
cooperative investments here to actually develop the talent,
homegrown talent in the Global South, people who
understand the context and can work with
the local context. This is true for many things,
whether it's agriculture or food production, whether it's
application of health to health related challenges,
or addressing climate related challenges, for example,
in many parts of the world. So I think it's extremely
important that we're really thinking about, how do we
make sure that the resources that people need to
advance and to develop the tools and the
critical tools, and also the data that we
all need and depend on-- how do we do better
in that respect? PAUL HOFHEINZ: Good, thank you. Doctor Tijani, I promised you
already a follow up question, and I'll make it now. I said now two times-- I think this will be the third. No man is an island, but no
country is an island either. And my question to
you is, how can we help you realize this dramatic
vision for Nigeria, knowing full well how important
the technology will be in the future,
how much talent there has to be in a country with so
many young people, hard working? How can we help you deliver-- how can we help Nigeria
deliver on this vision? BOSUN TIJANI: I think the
starting point-- again, really, Tom did a fantastic job
setting the scene for this. And I think you mentioned
how we should all recognize that we are
at an exciting time, and we are literally changing
the trajectory of where things will go for all of us together. I think Global South, we must
see it as not just a charity case when it comes
to AI, because we've created this amazing
thing that can actually help us build a
future that we'll all be excited and proud of. And it won't happen if we
don't drive that inclusion. If you're building stuff that is
excluding a country like Nigeria that is going to be half
a billion people in 2050, for instance, based
on projection, then what are we building? Especially in a world where we
are now extremely connected, you can't-- it's
not a charity case. I think it's business. It's a business. It's a strong business case. That's a country where
I'm spending time. We're investing about $2 billion
in laying 90,000 kilometers of fiber optic cable. These countries are becoming
more and more connected, probably even more
connected in terms of how people use
connectivity more meaningfully than many countries
in the Global North. And now, what
you're going to see is that artificial
intelligence will become a stronger
part of-- it's already the case with everything we
do in that part of the world. And we don't want a future
where we still see division at the level of a technology
that can influence how you think, what you think, how
you do your daily chores and jobs and things like that. So I think it's a clear
business opportunity. So for me, it's
the starting point that we need to now
start to articulate, what's the model for investing
in countries like that? It's not about taking the data
out, like professor mentioned. It's about, how can we build
a capacity of people locally? How do we empower
these young people? They don't have to
travel to Europe to start to create a
meaningful life for themselves. You're seeing nations in Africa
that are also now becoming progressive, where people
want to stay and live, but we need to create the
opportunities for them. So for me, I think
that's one thing that we need to do urgently. The second is that as
we talk about this, we also need to be aggressive
around digitization of data. I mentioned that earlier. That's not moving fast enough. Can it become cheaper? Can we see more
technologies that can actually hit that process? Because as we do
that, we're only helping to strengthen
this technology that I think all of us will
benefit from eventually. So taking that
approach is what I see. What we're doing locally is
also thinking as far as saying if government doesn't have the
resources to start investing in infrastructure,
what's a world where we can actually do a
better job at documenting our data and perhaps find a
monetization strategy where the trust can actually monetize
the data set for the country, and whatever comes out
of it can be invested in infrastructure to
support local development of artificial intelligence? And lastly, what I'll
also say that I've seen that is popular for
those who are invested is also the need to invest
in government capacity to actually understand
and set agenda for artificial intelligence. I think in Global South,
this is extremely important. We don't have the luxury that
you have in Global North where you have all these academic
institutions that will still do the thinking. We don't have that. And you need government. So where government
is not available, you can turn to the university,
to the research labs. But in Global South, I think we
need to accelerate understanding of AI by government. PAUL HOFHEINZ: OK. Thank you. Fabian, you're the only
European on the panel here now, and I wanted just
to mention that in passing, but also to ask you
a question concretely about how these issues cut in Europe. Do we have the right balance? Do we have the right ideas
about the future and regulation in this and other areas? And let me maybe put the
question differently. Rather than criticizing
European policy, what I'd like to hear
from you is what we should be doing, what we
need to do right, what we need to get right in the coming
months, years, weeks, decades, and even centuries. FABIAN J. THEIS: Let
me not get into GDPR. PAUL HOFHEINZ: Exactly. [LAUGHTER] FABIAN J. THEIS: You
mentioned it, talents. I think there's a
lot of capacity. There's this, I think,
fantastic academic landscape that we have the
pleasure and honor of being able to
collaborate and work with. But for example,
within Helmholtz, I see this, that we have all
these different disciplines, and you have the ambition
to bring AI everywhere. We call it as our mission
to democratize access to AI. And I think that sort of
principle we set up there, I think could be sort of
shining a bit differently. So you have these
developed disciplines. They have data sets, in this
case, often a bit more organized already, but then they
see this thing still is a bit of a mystic thing. So we've been, I think
maybe five or six years ago, sort of started
with that mission. And one of these ideas
we had there was really sort of combined research teams
with also really consulting and teaching efforts
to bring people, get them easy access to
tools, go into the labs, help them accelerate that. And I think because of this
sort of existing infrastructure of fantastic data, but
also these clever people across the board,
we can already push. So now, what is
needed is that vision to really then embrace
that AI, having this beautiful English term
angst, which in German-- we know how to deal with, but
actually embrace it and take it to the next level. And I think people start
really realizing that. So we used to have
these boundaries between medical people
sitting in-- how do you call it, fiefdoms? I think this is being
broken up now massively. And of course, a big part is the
people that are pushing this. PAUL HOFHEINZ: I'm
very interested about in what the
three of you said, and you've said very many
very interesting things. But one of the things
I'm really struck by has been that the thread
and the theme of data has been right there
in every single one of your presentations. I didn't get an earful
from you about compute, although we all know
we have that need, and we need more of it. You all said we
need more reform. We need more work. We need more collaboration
in data and data building, building data sets,
good data sets, making sure that that
side of the business gets the attention and the care,
the duty of care that it needs. So I won't offer any
concluding remarks, but I will simply say
that you fascinated me, because you answered the
question in a different way than I expected. And on that note, let me
just invite all of you to thank my wonderful
panelists, and Hannah to come back on stage. [APPLAUSE]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: Bu-7NXtLqMo (https://youtu.be/Bu-7NXtLqMo) ===


THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN:
Thanks so much. It's a treat to be here
with my friends at Google and all of you. And I just came from
Jerusalem, so I am much more in the mind of AQ, covering
AQ, which is al-Queda, not AI, but I made the shift
on the plane ride up. To understand both
the potential of AI driving more scientific
breakthroughs and more scientific breakthroughs
driving more AI, I think you have to
appreciate the unique moment where humanity finds
itself right now, on the eve of this discovery. We've hit three scaling laws, it
seems to me, at the same time. A scaling law in
silicon and software, a scaling law in carbon, and
a scaling law in disorder. Let's briefly look at all
three and how they're related. At some point between 2017 when
Google released its transformer algorithm and the early 2020s
when microchips became that much more powerful and specifically
tailored to AI parallel processing, artificial
intelligence of a wholly different scope and
scale just emerged. I mean, the machine just
started speaking German, and they didn't teach it German. So obviously, there was a
scaling law playing out. The power of large
language modules that rapidly became, or are
becoming large reasoning modules now, emerged and
became available, we all know, to the
public, virtually for free. For the first time, polymathic
artificial intelligence seemed within sight,
and we quickly saw, with amazing
breakthroughs like AlphaFold, how scientific challenges
that took decades could be compressed
in a few years. AI-driven science went in three
years from science fiction to nonfiction to available for
everyone, virtually for free. At roughly the same
time, though, we had a scaling law in carbon. By that, I mean CO2 and methane
greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere
caused primarily by humans burning fossil fuels-- and cows belching, we
learned this morning-- that trap more heat
near the Earth's surface were causing destructive
climate change. Each of the last
three decades have been hotter than
the previous one, and the seven warmest
years on record actually occurred
between 2015 and 2021. The outcome is both
a hotter planet and a cascade of
feedback loops, impacting our oceans, atmosphere, soil,
rocks, trees, and every living thing on the planet. The net effect is what
my friend Hunter Lovins has called Global Weirding. The hots get hotter,
the wets get wetter, the droughts get
drier and longer, and destructive forest
fires and storms become more frequent
and more destructive. We see once-in-100-year weather
events becoming once every few years. I would argue that at
roughly the same time we hit these scaling points
in silicon and carbon, we hit a third scaling
point or tipping point, and it was in the challenges in
both developed and developing world of creating stable
and decent government. We're hitting a scaling
point in disorder. The central crisis for the
industrial democracies is that they have promised their
people health benefits, retirement benefits, and
infrastructure that they simply cannot deliver, while they are
also having to fight more wars against non-democracies. But today, they can
neither raise taxes enough, cut benefits enough,
or go into debt further without risking
political instability or runaway inflation. And all of this is happening as
populations in these countries age. In 2010, for instance,
1 in 10 Singaporeans were age 65 and above. By 2030, it will be 1 in 4. Also, educational attainment
is stagnating despite higher education spending. We've also seen a
broad-based slowdown in global labor productivity
growth over the last decade. In the US, Social Security,
Medicare, and Medicaid are now half the federal budget. Compounding all of this are
bigger national security challenges as the four
decades of globalization and the relative absence
of great power conflict, known as the post
Cold War, fades away. Meanwhile, the developing
world, precisely because of climate
change and deforestation and accelerations in
technological change and a lot less foreign aid
from the developed countries, too many nations are
finding it hard to deliver even the basics of education,
electric power, transportation, and health care. This is leading to more
internal migration and then external migration and more
failing states and conflict. According to the
Global Peace Index, there are currently 56 conflicts
going on in the world today, the most since World War II. And there are more migrants
moving from one country to another than any
time since World War II. For all of these reasons,
ladies and gentlemen, we need a game changer. What I've just described are
high-dimensional problems that blend both
scale and complexity. Only the kind of
high-dimensional thinking that AI-fueled scientific
discovery can address-- only the kind of
high-dimensional thinking that AI-fueled scientific
discovery can address is going to mitigate
these problems. Specifically, we
need more powerful AI driving more
scientific breakthroughs so that for less money
with greater ease, we can deliver better health
care, more decent government to more people
with cleaner energy than we have ever done
before as a species. The future stability of
this planet for our children depends on that. To put it another way,
we need the scaling that hits silicon and
software to produce artificial intelligence to
mitigate the scaling of carbon into destructive climate change
while also propagating the scale solutions we need to scale
decent governments to prevent scaling disorder. Can polymathic
artificial intelligence give us the polysolutions
for the polycrisis? That's why I call
this era the polycene. I know it's a mouthful. Here's the short version. Politics has never
needed science more. It has never needed
science to be an amplifier for the economy
by reducing costs in research and in areas like medicine
and sustainability, as well as increasing
productivity and workforce participation. Politics has never
needed science more to enable leapfrogs in
education and job growth for the developing world. And politics has never
needed science more to provide the buffers against
disruptive climate change. I'm an optimist, both by nature
and from my own reporting. I just give one example. I wrote a book in 2011 with my
friend Michael Mandelbaum called "That Used to Be Us." It was actually about America,
how America lost its way in a world it invented. And my favorite chapter in that
book was called "Average is Over". And the theme of the
chapter was, basically, with the acceleration in the
pace of change in technology, if you just had
average skills, it would produce an average income. So you could buy
an average house and have 2.0 average kids
with an average yard, average number of
trips to Disney World, and average retirement, and
a perfectly average funeral. Average was over. So everybody had to
find their extra. Well, I've been thinking
about that chapter lately because recently,
on a trip to India, I discovered a really
rudimentary AI system that was being provided
to Indian farmers, where an illiterate Indian farmer
could access on his cell phone this software-- his or her cell
phone this software-- and get the absolutely
world-class best advice on what seeds to plant, when to
plant them, where to plant them, which fertilizer,
how much water, which season based on everyone
in the world who was planting those seeds at the same time. For the first time
in the world, people who had never had
access to average are going to have
access to world-class in a whole range of
opportunities and outcomes, not just agriculture. Average is over for them in a
really cool way thanks to AI. So that's why I am an optimist-- with one minor caveat. While politics has never
needed science more, science has never needed
politics and ethics more. It's never needed
them to come up with the controls,
the regulations that will ensure that we are able
to get the best out of AI without becoming its pet. The alignment
problem is very real and will become
more real every year we get closer to true
artificial general intelligence. Have no illusions. With our invention of artificial
intelligence, we as a species have become more godlike
than ever before. We humans invented
a bigger brain than we evolved with, or for
the believers in the room, than God endowed us with. We humans now have the godlike
power to part the Red Sea. But unless we can scale to
each other and our AI machines the Ten Commandments
to go with it, we will have a real
problem on the other side. Thank you very much. [APPLAUSE]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: QK_UxXBflvY (https://youtu.be/QK_UxXBflvY) ===


[APPLAUSE] ERIC TOPOL: All right, well,
we have a terrific panel. You've already heard from
Hannah about Fiona, Alison, and Pushmeet. We're representing here,
academics, life science industry, and IT world. And maybe just a
quick intro, I think digital biology or the Large
Language Life Models, LLLM, is moving at a pace
we've never seen. Just last week, Evo was
published in Science. This Wednesday, the Human
Cell Atlas Foundation Model will be published in Nature. We've had multiple
human methylome models published in the last couple
of weeks at [? Bolts One ?] yesterday. It's just dizzying. I've never seen anything
like it in my life. So we're going to get into this. That's, of course, the
kind of life science side, and of course, it's much
broader as already introduced by James and Jennifer in terms
of the biomedical applications. So maybe we can just start
off with where are things now. So, Alison, maybe you can
lead us off, your experience. ALISON NOBLE: OK, so I work
in imaging, particularly sort of ultrasound imaging. So I've particularly seen,
over the last 20 years, how things have
dramatically changed. Ultrasound is a
great example, where humans find it very difficult to
acquire data or interpret data, and it's all about
understanding the physics and acoustic patterns. So along came AI,
and it's really transformed what you can do
with an ultrasound device, because you can now-- provided you've got the
very large data sets that are required to do
this, you can now find things in ultrasound scans
that humans find Difficult, And you can also guide people in
how to use an ultrasound probe. And this is still
emerging as an area, but I think it's probably one of
the most exciting breakthroughs in ultrasound, because
you no longer require to be able to train
for a long, long time. You can now put that into
the front end of the device to be able to guide you. So that's just as an example. ERIC TOPOL: Sure. Fiona? FIONA H. MARSHALL: Yes, thanks. So, obviously,
heading up research at a pharmaceutical
company, we're really using AI now right
across the R&D process to advance new
medicines, starting off with identifying
new targets, which comes down to understanding
diseases better. And that's where you
use big data sets, like the Cell Atlas, but also
things, like human genetics data, population data. The second area is, once
you have ideas for targets, how do you develop a medicine? So that would either
be a small molecule. So that's chemistry,
generative chemistry, and we use technologies,
like AlphaFold, to design molecules, optimizing
biologics or ex-RNA gene editing strategies. A very important area is
in predictive toxicology, so making drugs safer
as they advance, and then in clinical
trial design as well. And there's a lot of
innovations there using AI. ERIC TOPOL: Sure. Pushmeet? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So I
lead the science team, and it's very difficult to
talk about what is happening, because it's just so
much across the board. I mean, if you look at topics,
I can start with biology. I mean, James already mentioned
the AlphaFold and AlphaMissense work. I mean, really,
what we are trying to do is decipher the
genome, really, understand what is encoded in the genome. And as Jennifer was
mentioning, if we have that amazing
understanding, it will just accelerate
the amount of work that we can do by using that
amazing understanding about what is the actual
semantics of the DNA. Now, if you look
across the fields beyond biology, in every field,
we are seeing a transformation. James mentioned our work on
weather prediction, GraphCast. Just to give you
an idea, GraphCast makes predictions about
near term forecasting. It used to take supercomputers
simulations for days to come up with a
prediction like that, and now, it can be done on
a single chip in a minute. That's like multiple orders of
magnitude sort of difference. The same thing in materials. There are around 30,000
inorganic crystals, which we knew were stable in our
work on graph neural networks for material exploration. We showed that there were 2.2
million inorganic crystals, which were considered stable,
that scientists did not know about, and we shared
400,000 of them last year. And scientists now
have discovered that many of the candidate
materials that we had listed are candidate materials for high
temperature superconductors, for better battery design
materials, and so on. So in every area
of science that we are looking at, whether it's
biology, structural biology, genomics, protein
design, it's just transforming what is out there. ERIC TOPOL: No question. I mean, Pushmeet
and I were talking before we get started
this morning about how structural biology used to be
regarded as the physics of life science, and now, it's
because of AlphaFold and many other
models, and of course, its used during the pandemic,
it's been transformed. So this gets us to
this acceleration of discovery, which is, I think,
a theme of this conference and how the science can be
changed in almost a way that was inconceivable. So in many ways, this
brings up the role of the scientists in
AI, and now, we've seen things that started with
the lab in a loop concept. It's been fostered
by Aviv Regev, and then the AI scientists
or co-scientists. Most recently, just last week,
James Zou published a preprint from Stanford about
the virtual lab, where he had five domain
agents that actually conceived nanobodies for SARS-COV-2 that
were very potent independently, essentially from an
infrequent human supervision, and that's, of course, going,
like, from virtual cell to virtual lab. So the limits here are something
we've never seen before, some level of autonomy. So maybe we can start
off by this is something that we've not ever
actually experienced, and it challenges our thinking
about the future of science and the hypothesis
generation creativity potentially that we can derive. Who would like to
start us on that path? ALISON NOBLE: Well,
I think it comes back to we're moving so fast,
we've got to be careful. It's great to hear about
all the excitement, but the notion of what a
scientist is, is changing, and we need to also stand
back and reflect on that. In our report that
we published, which was discussing with many
scientists, both AI scientists and across different
areas of sciences, this is people's concerns. And it goes back to things, like
reproducibility, just basics, fundamentals. You had the slide at the
beginning of the meeting, where people used to
get around a table and wanting to see
the recipe repeated. Some of the principles
haven't changed, and we need to, as
scientific communities, demand to ourselves and in
different research communities, that we really understand
when we publish results, that they are sound. That is partly thinking
about openness. Openness, I use
deliberately, because you can't make everything open. If you work in health care,
your data is often sensitive, but that doesn't stop
people maybe thinking of how they publish in different ways. Some communities are
doing this, where you now are required to publish. If you can't publish
your data, you have to be very rigorous in how
you've evaluated what you do. So this is a responsibility
for scientists to rethink in the age of AI,
how we do present our work and also how we do
training of scientists. And not everyone
is an AI scientist and maybe understands
the methodology, so how do we train
basic scientists to be able to trust the outputs? And another thing
is the outputs, and AI makes errors in
different ways to a human. So we've also got to understand
the implications of that as well. So we've got some
wonderful early examples, but I think these are
the sorts of issues we as a scientific community,
and in these areas, we need to really
understand a lot better. ERIC TOPOL: Fiona,
maybe you could also take us through a bit on
the teams at Novartis. FIONA H. MARSHALL: Yes. ERIC TOPOL: Are they
into this, or are they-- FIONA H. MARSHALL: I think
this is a very important point to bring people with us. That's one of our priorities. So we have more of the
concept of human in the loop rather than the lab in the
loop, and how can we really enable everyone to
embrace new approaches? And there's a number
of ways of doing that. I think making everyone's job
much easier by using AI tools, making them accessible,
so that people immediately see it as a benefit rather
than a threat, that's one of the things. But also, I've changed
some of the hierarchy of how we organize our labs. Historically, the wet lab
scientists generated data that then the data scientist
had to sort of analyze and feed back, and they would be center
of the authorship on a paper, shall we say. But now, I've actually
put the data scientists as the lab heads in some cases. So they're really the super
users of computational means, and then they're
sort of dictating the experimental procedures
and the experiments to the wet lab scientists
who then carry out those experiments. So that changes the way people
think about data and use it, and it's the fastest way
of really sort of driving change in the organization. ERIC TOPOL: Pushmeet? PUSHMEET KOHLI: I think there
are two sort of elements to it. One is AI systems as tools, and
they are very powerful tools. They can make some things-- they can make predictions,
which are quite unique. And as was mentioned by
Alison, it's really important to understand when they
are making progress, and when they are correct,
and when they are wrong. And I think the real
breakthrough of AlphaFold was not just that it was
very accurate in predicting the structure of proteins. It was also that it was very
accurate in saying, I did not make the right prediction,
when it did not make the right prediction. So the uncertainty, the
predictive uncertainty of AlphaFold was
extremely well calibrated, and that gives confidence to
people who are using these sophisticated tools, that
they know when the tool can be trusted and when the
tool cannot be trusted. Now, this is not the case for
all the machine learning models out there. In the case of LLMs,
LLMs hallucinate, and one of the
grand challenges is that you don't know when
they have hallucinated and when they have come up
with something remarkably intuitive and profound. So one element of
this is, as you are using these
powerful tools, how do you build the scientific
community and how scientists can understand how to leverage
these tools to the most effective manner. Then there comes to a point,
where you're using the AI systems in a more
autonomous fashion, and this is what we are
seeing in our fusion projects and our
astronomy projects, where you have these
controllers now, which are running
fusion reactors, and they are stabilizing plasma
configurations in a way that has not been designed by hand. It has been learned. So people who are
working in those systems, they are extremely
sort cognizant of the safety implications. They want to understand what
is the out of distribution generalization behavior
of these models. So validation, again,
is extremely crucial. When you give autonomy
to such a system, you need to understand what
are the limitations, how do you sandbox it, how
do you properly test it, how do you exhibit. Like, how do you test
all the different ways that systems can go wrong? So I think, both from
a tooling perspective, as well as from
autonomy perspective, there are interesting
challenges that we are actively sort of seeing the whole
community and us focusing on. ERIC TOPOL: Sure. I mean, the idea
that was emphasized by [INAUDIBLE] and you, as well,
Allison, about this trust issue, oftentimes, even the
experience with chat bots is you tend to accept. They assert, and you think
this may be a truth, in fact, when it certainly isn't. And also, I just think one case
in point in genomics, a space that I work in quite a bit,
because as James mentioned, one of the greatest challenges
in human genomics today is that variants of
unknown significance, VUS, like UFOs, we don't
know what they are. And in fact, the jump
from AlphaMissense to get to such a high
number of variants that we understand more, not
that it's absolutely right, but the fact that it's an
order of magnitude increase in essentially decoding
or understanding what variants of potential
pathogenic significance. Now, one of the things
we want to get into is this data shortage. So in talking with
John Jumper last night, I think he agreed that Helen
Berman and the protein data bank, if it wasn't
for them, there wouldn't have been
AlphaFold, and we have limited resources of data sets. You mentioned, Pushmeet, the
graph cache, which the weather, we got lots of data on whether. So the problem we have now
is limited great data sets. So we have this
path of discovery, but we're missing the inputs. So maybe you could help us. How are we going to
get these inputs? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So I think this
point is extremely valid, right? If we are thinking about
developing intelligence, intelligence does not
happen, arise from a vacuum. It arises from
some raw material, and that raw material
is experience. Now, that experience could
be in the form of data that has been collected
by scientists in a lab, or that is experience
that the model has achieved by interacting
with a simulation. So we see both these elements
working with high fidelity simulations, which can give
the model a lot of intuition about what is going to happen. Like, in the case of fusion
and many of our physics models, we do use a lot
of simulated data. And then, of course, there
is experimental data, like the PDB and
the work that we have done in AlphaMissense,
which is also extremely sort of crucial. There is the third
element, which is synthetic data, which is
where you are trying to augment these data sources
by making predictions and distillation as a
concept, where you try to make predictions
about unlabeled data and then use those labels
to train a model in the hope that some of the
right predictions will give you intuitions,
and the wrong predictions will be thrown out. But that sometimes can
be wishful thinking, and it's really important
that, when you do these things, you have a very pure
and firm test set, which keeps you on the ground and
keeps you grounded on the fact that you are actually
making progress. FIONA H. MARSHALL:
Yeah, so I'd like to mention two examples
here, because I think you've hit upon a very important
topic in the context of drug development. The first one I
mentioned earlier was the predictive safety. So if we generate a
compound or a biologic, can we predict whether
it's going to be safe before we take it into humans? And of course, all the
pharmaceutical companies have years and years
of historical data that they've done, testing
in rodents, for example. So what we've done,
and this comes by way of histology
slides, so glass slides in huge
cabinets of drawers. It's like the Amazon warehouse,
so very difficult data to search that. So, essentially,
what you need is to digitize all of
those glass slides and then load up that data. And by doing that, you can then
develop predictive algorithms for certain types of toxicity,
so certain organ tox, what would produce
cardio tox or renal tox. Now, we've decided
that type of data is not something we should
just keep internally. I mean, this is best shared
across the pharma industry to lift us all up. So we've partnered with a
company called Deciphex. They're doing all
of the scanning, but they're going to
develop the algorithms. But they could also partner
with other pharma companies, and then everyone
will benefit from it. And I think it's one of the
wonderful things about AlphaFold is everyone having access. So the more we can
share data, the better. The other area, which I
know you're excited about, is population data,
population health data. So in the UK, recently,
we have Our Future Health, which is an initiative
to get NHS data. Again, one of the
benefits of the UK is having the NHS
with all of this. Actually, consistently stored
and nomenclature is important. How do you actually
describe diseases? What do you call them? So again, this is a
public private partnership with universities, the NHS, and
pharma companies contributing. And I think that produces
an incredible amount of data to mine using AI. ERIC TOPOL: Yeah, I'm so
glad you mentioned it, because, first of all, we rely
on the UK Biobank with 15 year follow up, 550,000 participants. No data set we have of
people is compared to that, and now, I was astonished at
how quickly Our Future Health-- over two million people,
participants of the five million in just a short time-- FIONA H. MARSHALL: With
their records and-- ERIC TOPOL: And it
just makes all of us in the US a joke, because
you're going so fast, and you have-- unlike
the NIH, they're unwilling to have public
private partnership. So you're doing that, and
it makes a big difference. So we're relying, again, on the
UK to have data sets assembled. Before going back
over to Alison, I just want you to comment. As you mentioned
in our discussions, people think of drug
discovery AI acceleration just in the molecule
side, but there are so many different ways. Could you comment,
for example, on just in the design and enrollment
of clinical trials and other nodes of-- FIONA H. MARSHALL:
Yeah, so we're using AI to help us
run clinical trials. This is actually
the slowest part of R&D. So designing
the molecules, we are getting pretty good at. But once you have the
candidate molecule, that can still take 10 years to
actually get a marketed drug, and it's all the slowness of
running the clinical trials and generating data. So one of the key things is
how do you enroll patients and using huge
databases that have all of the demographic data
of people around the world. Let's say, let's take the US. So where do people live who
have certain types of diseases? What is their age? What are the drugs
are they taking? What hospitals are
they associated with? By having all of
this data, you can write the protocol
for a clinical trial, and you can enter
different parameters. Like, I would like
women age 30 to 50. How does that affect
the enrollment rate? I don't want them to
be taking this drug. So we talked about
breast cancer, whether they would be taking
estrogen pathway modifiers. How would that affect
the enrollment rate? And by optimizing then
all of the parameters, you can massively accelerate
the recruitment of a trial. So something that might take
you three years to just recruit the patients to run the
trial, you could now recruit those patients
in, say, six months, and this is a huge
acceleration of getting drugs through to the
patients and to market. ERIC TOPOL: Yeah,
no, it's phenomenal. Alison? ALISON NOBLE: Just partly
listening to what's also said, we've talked a lot
about partnerships, and when we talk about the
culture change that's going on, this is dramatic in academia,
where, traditionally, people would have their own--
they'd work on their own in their small lab. They would be highly
competitive with everybody else in the world. Along comes a tool, the
family of tools of AI, and you now want to be
able to have the data to be able to answer questions. You've suddenly got to
partner with everyone, and this is proving to be quite
difficult in certain areas. And this notion that competition
drives innovation, competition, you've got to balance that with
how do you manage partnerships as well. And also, in academia, how
do you manage rewards now? The classic reward system
in academic science would be to publish
papers, and now, you have many, many, 20, 50
people can be on a paper, because they've all contributed
to a particular idea. But, how do you make it
attractive for young scientists to enter a field, be noticed,
and their careers to progress when you work in this
interdisciplinary area that's team science? And I think this
is something else. We need to have
new ways to reward. It's not new to suggest it. We've had the idea
interdisciplinary research is always a challenge,
but I do think we need to think
about the new ways that we can recognize people. ERIC TOPOL: Absolutely. I also want to take
the chance to zoom in a bit on the
ultrasound work you're doing, because a lot
of-- it was brought up in the inspirational
video that started this morning about reducing
inequities and the idea that you could obtain
images through things, like a smartphone,
anywhere in the world, even by people who have no
training in capturing images. Could you comment about that? ALISON NOBLE: Yes,
because I have some experience of doing that,
of taking the very low cost probes. They're sort of under $1,000,
and the idea there is that you will be simplifying
what a person does. So sweep across the pregnant
mom's abdomen, for example, and then let the AI
decide what's there and what might be the issue. And these sorts of-- we've both developed some
early technology to do this. We've also, as part
of the research, gone out and asked in
Kenya and also in India, would they find it acceptable
to use tools of this kind? And the answer is they
are like everyone else. They want to know
that tools work, but otherwise, they would
very much like to use them. But it's a very different
way to do health care. You've got a different-- you
mentioned human in the loop. The phrase I use is
worker in the loop, because whoever the person
is holding the probe, you've got to empower
them, and that means that you might have
different capabilities, different explanations
come for what's found. Are you, for example, using
it for triage to refer in, or is the decision being used
for actual decision making? So it's really an
early emerging area, but it's a fascinating
area as well. But the notion that
everything needs to be safe, but understanding that
worker is really key to see adoption as well. ERIC TOPOL: Right. And one of the things that's
really different about life science and the models that are
cropping up now and changing things at a pace that
we've not ever seen, whereas in medicine, there's
this thing called regulatory. And this, of course,
has been very difficult, because life science
can move much faster. It also has the
ability to really take advantage of simulations
and synthetic data in a much better way. So maybe you could comment. We talked a bit about there's
a worry about using too much synthetic simulation data. What's your
perspective about how we can have comfort about that? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah, so I
think, at the end of the day, the proof of the pudding
is in the eating, right? So whatever the recipe is,
whether you have synthetic data or whether you have data that
has come from a simulation or from a wet lab--
and by the way, I should say that not all
wet lab data is equal. We have seen even data sets--
like, PDB was amazing, right? And there was a particular
sort of quality threshold. But if you look at data
sets in other areas, the quality level
is not the same. So it's really
important to focus on having good test sets to
really-- which tease out how much progress is being made. And in that sense, AlphaFold,
one critical aspect was the PDB, but the other critical
aspect was CASP, that CASP was a really
good signal for us to track, whether we
are making progress on out-of-distribution
generalization and predicting things which
are currently not known. So investing in test sets, where
there is no risk of overfitting, you are taking out
a timestamped view, that the model has been
completely shielded from the things that
it will be evaluated on is an important element of the
testing protocol that we use. ERIC TOPOL: Well,
you mentioned CASP, and one of the things that's
very different in life science is that you have
these annual contests. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes. ERIC TOPOL: And we don't
have that in medicine, right? So does that really help the
competition, kind of that managed competition, bring
out even better science and creativity? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah, I think,
like, the Critical Assessment-- CASP is Critical Assessment
in Structure Prediction. And for those of
you who don't know, I think it was an amazing
and very visionary idea, where it was run
sort of biannually, and the competition was that
any sort of new structure that was experimentally found out
for a specific period of time, scientists would
deposit it in a vault and will not share
it with the world. And these sort of structures
were then kept hidden, and the whole community of
structure prediction, people who are working on structure
prediction would be told, OK, here are the things
that you should test on. And now, nobody
knows the answer, but the true answer
is no, right? So there's no way to cheat. So that gives you a very clean
signal of how much progress has been made, and you
are not fooling yourself by just overfitting or trying to
sort of think that you're making progress, but you're not. ERIC TOPOL: Yeah. FIONA H. MARSHALL:
All right, I thought you'd be interested to
know how we're using AI for regulatory purposes. ERIC TOPOL: Yes, I am
very interested in that. FIONA H. MARSHALL: Basically,
every single regulatory question and answer is mapped
on a database. So now, it allows you, as you
submit the regulatory documents, to predict what questions
are going to come up by the regulatory authorities. So, basically, you
can be well prepared. But then even better is, once
you get the sets of questions that come in, you can find out,
have those questions been asked before, and then
predict what's the best answer to give that's
likely to give you a positive approval
for your drug. ERIC TOPOL: That's terrific. I do want to get
back to you on this, because one of the greatest
delays of getting drugs approved is having to submit-- FIONA H. MARSHALL: Oh, thousands
of questions come, yes. ERIC TOPOL: It can take a year
with hundreds of thousands of pages. Do you think INDs
will be AI generated? FIONA H. MARSHALL: Well,
we're already using them. ERIC TOPOL: You're
already doing it? FIONA H. MARSHALL: Yeah. ERIC TOPOL: OK, there you go. FIONA H. MARSHALL:
I mean, of course, they do have the
human in the loop. But they're
massively becoming AI enabled through the
whole writing process and, yeah, the whole
process then of-- ERIC TOPOL: Yeah, I
mean, acceleration isn't just the molecule. There's a lot of other
features as you're mentioning. I didn't realize you
already were on to that. Wow. Alison, do you want to-- ALISON NOBLE: Yeah, I can. It's interesting that you
get the audience going when we talk about regulatory. So there's regulatory
approval, and then there's the purpose of regulation. And I think that there
is-- if I think in my area, if you extend it to things,
like radiology, it's very important to have
the regulatory approval. But then, of course,
that's not telling you how these systems are going to
be used in practice when they're deployed and also
the human behavior changes that can come when
you use an approved system. So this is an area,
where, I think, there is still some more work,
because demonstrating it's safe is one thing. Demonstrating that
and understanding how human behavior
changes in a clinic, because you've now got a
tool that you might then become dependent on, you
might trust it too much, or you might switch it off,
because you don't agree with it. These are the sorts of things
and the studies coming out now, which are a very
different extension to is it safe to use
in an environment. And I think the other thing is,
as some of the AI tools become-- and if they are
better than humans, it's very different than if
they're supporting a human in making decisions. And we need to understand more
about the implications on that and how it changes
decision making. ERIC TOPOL: In that light,
I want to ask you about-- there's a lot of debate about
the ability to be creative and reason for AI systems. Where do you come out on that? Is this just a function
of pre-training, or there really
is this dimension of thoughtfulness and
critical reasoning capability? ALISON NOBLE: In
the domain I work, I don't think you would
say that it's creative, but maybe there are
people working in spaces that you're finding
the gaps, where the humans don't understand that
particular space of the data. But it's all driven by the data. So it's very exciting,
I think, when people can discover something,
and then they can attribute that to being creative. But, I would say, it's modeling
gaps that the human brain hasn't thought about. ERIC TOPOL: OK, how about you? FIONA H. MARSHALL:
I mean, I think this is why you need the humans,
because it's that feeling of empathy, understanding. If you know somebody who's dying
of cancer, that deep empathy that you have for that
person and wanting to bring a new medicine
for that person, I think, I can't
imagine a computer being able to have that
level of understanding. ERIC TOPOL: OK, now, you
may come out differently on this, Pushmeet. I'm curious, what do you think
about the advanced capabilities for reasoning? PUSHMEET KOHLI: I think-- see, there are-- if
you think about AI, and if you think about
reasoning at different levels, there is reasoning at
a non-expert level, and there was a
dramatic progress that AI made in things,
like perception. That's not something
that an expert-- like, we all can, basically,
perceive the world and do can do object detection,
image classification. But it was a big
breakthrough when AI systems were able to do it. They were able to achieve
non-expert level reasoning behavior. Then there is expert
level reasoning behavior, where you have a person
who has spent a lot of time in understanding
a particular field and getting the real
sort of facts out. And then there is beyond
expert level behavior, which is what systems, like
AlphaFold and AlphaMissense, do, where there are no humans that
are able to solve that problem. So I think, if these models
are able to do these reasoning problems from the
input that they have, if there are no
signals or there are no input features that
they can sense from, then they will have that
fundamental limitation. So if they have the ability to
perceive how someone is feeling, then they might be able
to reason on top of that. But if they are fundamentally--
the interface is primitive, and you are just talking to them
by textual means or by saying, here's the sequence,
then, of course, they will have
fundamental limits on what you can do with
that limited information. ERIC TOPOL: Well, I think
that's a good stopping point in that we're still
exploring this topic and will be for some years to
come, and we see hints of it. We've seen in medicine
how promotion of empathy consistently across many
studies, who would have ever guessed, because of
just understanding language. But as I think James
emphasized, we're in the early days
across all this. Just think of where we'll be
when this meeting convenes in three to five years. So let's thank so much,
Alison, Fiona, and Pushmeet, and thank you for
your attention. [APPLAUSE]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: SqKV1o-Jdso (https://youtu.be/SqKV1o-Jdso) ===


[APPLAUSE] JAMES MANYIKA: For
our first session, I'm honored to introduce the
pathbreaking scientist, Dr. Jennifer Doudna. Jennifer is a foreign
member of the Royal Society. She won the Nobel Prize
in chemistry in 2020 for her co-discovery of CRISPR. She is the president and founder
of the Innovative Genomics Institute and a co-founder and
advisor to several companies developing unique CRISPR-based
solutions to tackle some of the greatest
health challenges-- the greatest challenges in
health, agriculture and climate. She is considered
one of the foremost and most pioneering influential
scientists of our time. Please help me in welcoming
Jennifer to the stage. [APPLAUSE] Welcome. JENNIFER DOUDNA: James,
great to be here. JAMES MANYIKA: Good to have you. Now, Jennifer, it's been,
what, four years since you won the Nobel
Prize in chemistry. And since then, a
lot has happened. I'm curious, would
you share with us what's top of mind for you, both
in your research but also things going on in your field? JENNIFER DOUDNA: Well,
it's amazing to be here. What an incredible opportunity
to visit with other scientists and hear perspectives on
AI and science, something we think about a lot
in my own research and at the Innovative
Genomics Institute. I think with CRISPR, which is
a technology for editing DNA precisely in cells
and organisms, what we're seeing is
a real step change in the pace at which this
technology is being applied. And one great example
of this is the approval of the first CRISPR
therapeutic to treat patients with sickle cell disease. It was actually approved here
in the UK first about a year ago and, shortly after
that, in the US. And it's a functional cure
for a human genetic disease. It means that patients
with this terrible disease can receive a one-and-done
treatment that deals with their disease
at the genetic level. It makes a change to DNA that
overrides the sickle-cell mutation and means that these
patients are, at least so far, have been symptom free-- JAMES MANYIKA: Oh, wow. JENNIFER DOUDNA: --since
receiving the therapy. It's extraordinary. Several dozen people
have now been treated. And so it's-- for
everybody in the field, it's been a tremendously
exciting moment and really illustrates the partnership
between scientists, of course, patients that were voluntary
participants in clinical trials, and then, of course, the
companies that have been making all of this possible. So I think it's a reminder of
why we do the science that we do and the extraordinary
opportunities that lie ahead. JAMES MANYIKA: No,
it's incredible to see how you go from the
science breakthroughs to actual things that start to
make a difference and drugs that start to make a
difference for people. Now, obviously, how AI
fits into this picture is top of mind for many of us. What do you see as the key
opportunity areas for AI within gene editing and CRISPR,
but also just in genomics research more generally? JENNIFER DOUDNA: Well, one
of the things with CRISPR in thinking about this
approval, this drug approval, is how we expand
the applicability to people around the world. Right now, this therapy costs
about $2 million US per patient. So it's very expensive,
meaning that it's difficult to get a hold of
financially for many people. But also, just the
way it's applied, it requires a
bone-marrow transplant to receive this therapy. So we see a future where
we override that barrier by discovering better ways
to deliver CRISPR enzymes, making CRISPR enzymes that
are more efficient at what they do, so you need to use
fewer molecules to achieve a clinical benefit,
and then, of course, expanding the utility of
this gene-editing platform in other areas. And all of those are spaces
where AI will play a big role, I feel. And also, it should be
mentioned that CRISPR, in addition to
being a tool that is directly applicable clinically
and also in the environment-- I'm sure we'll talk about that-- it's also an extraordinary
research tool. So it generates a
lot of data that are then suitable for mining
by AI-mediated approaches. JAMES MANYIKA: So
does that, in the end, also accelerate the
research pipeline? Does it mean that we'll get
drug therapies and other things faster? JENNIFER DOUDNA: I
think, no question. That's not happened yet. But I think many of us see
that that's on the horizon. JAMES MANYIKA: Yeah. You know, when most of us
think about gene editing, we tend to think of medical
therapies as the arena where this will play
out and benefit. But it's actually much
broader, isn't it? I mean, at your
institute, you're starting to work on
other areas, like climate change and other things. Say more about that. What do you see as the broad
applications of gene editing? JENNIFER DOUDNA: Well, when we
founded the Innovative Genomics Institute about 10
years ago, our thinking was to focus in both
health care and climate. These are two areas where
we think gene editing is going to have a major impact. And people don't
necessarily think about genome editing
and CRISPR when they think about climate change. But we see incredible
opportunities both to make changes
in plants that do things like allow better
carbon storage in the soil through root systems, and to
create drought-resistant plants like rice, which is
something we're doing at the Innovative Genomics
Institute, and also, frankly, to use
CRISPR at its source, namely in the
microbes that populate our environment, and our bodies,
and that impact our health and, of course,
commercial agriculture. JAMES MANYIKA:
Well, you're going to have to tell us about the
cow that Hannah mentioned. JENNIFER DOUDNA: Oh, yeah. The cow, right? Yeah. So we were talking
at dinner last night about where many of
us see the immediate, or, say, in the next five
years, impact of AI and science. And my answer was
a methane-free cow. It turns out that cattle are one
of the major sources of methane, which is a powerful
greenhouse gas that's emitted through agricultural
practices around the world. Imagine that we
could create cows that were literally not burping
out methane and, therefore, using their feed
more productively. Farmers would like this and,
of course, the rest of us would like it. And so this is
something that we're working on at the
Innovative Genomics Institute in partnership with
University of California, Davis scientists who have
demonstrated that, in principle, this is absolutely possible. They do it today with
complicated manipulations of the cow diet. We see a future where
genome editing could be used in the cow microbiome,
which are the microbes that populate the cow rumen, which
are actually producing methane, and change their metabolism so
that no longer is a problem. JAMES MANYIKA: Oh, wow. Oh, wow. Well, it's extraordinary
to hear you talk about this and how gene editing has kind of
gone from the stuff of science fiction to actually being
kind of an established tool and protocol for how we
do a lot of other things, and also how you
and your colleagues are navigating
through all of this. Well, here, perhaps, is a
provocative question, if I may. Do you think advances in AI make
certain elements of gene editing obsolete? JENNIFER DOUDNA:
I actually think that there's an
incredible opportunity for a collaborative approach. I think that AI advances our
capabilities as scientists, or it can. And what I see is a future where
we can more accurately predict the outcomes of
experiments, for example, genome-editing experiments. We know which genes
need editing and which ones are superfluous to
an outcome that's desired, even predicting things
like the impact of editing over time in an organism. And, I think, that will actually
accelerate the pace of discovery even faster than it
is now, and, we hope, make some experimentation
unnecessary. So, I think, that would actually
be an incredible advance if that comes to pass. JAMES MANYIKA: So it might
even help steer, suggest, or guide what experiments to
do, and which ones not to do, and which ones to
explore, and so forth. That's extraordinary. JENNIFER DOUDNA: Exactly. JAMES MANYIKA: One of the
things you've made observations about with CRISPR,
and we're also starting to see in AI, is
the resource-intensive nature of the research itself,
which is also shifting traditional relationships
between academia and the private sector,
and also changing how we think about funding. How do you assess the
current funding landscape? And what can we do to change, to
facilitate the kind of research like CRISPR or AlphaFold
level breakthroughs happen even faster and, perhaps,
even more collaboratively? JENNIFER DOUDNA:
Well, James, I've been an academic
for a long time. I've been running an
academic lab 30 years. And I'm also now more recently
a founder of companies and have worked a lot with
new company teams that are building groups
that are focused on particular
applications of CRISPR. And what I see is
that, I think, there's an incredible opportunity that
hasn't quite been advanced yet and in which we, Innovative
Genomics Institute, would like to be at
the forefront of, which is to think
about how we fund innovative early-stage science
to enable would-be entrepreneurs to make the kinds of
creative discoveries that will then be the
foundations of new companies. And frankly, it can't,
at least in the US-- I don't know how it
is here in the UK, but I imagine you face
similar challenges. It can be very difficult
to get government funding for very early stage, high-risk,
but potentially very high-payoff ideas, especially with young
scientists who are just starting their careers. And that's really what we aim
to do at Innovative Genomics Institute, is to fund
those scientists. And we do it in a
way that enables them to work collaboratively,
which is often not necessarily rewarded in academic settings. We actually reward that. We ask them to work
together in teams, and we ask them to consider
interdisciplinary approaches to problems. And so, for example, our
microbiome work with the cow is very much that way, where we
have computer scientists, even electrical engineers, and
agricultural scientists who are all working together. These are normally, at
least in academics, not people who would necessarily
bump into each other. But we build the teams
that make them possible. JAMES MANYIKA:
No, I have to say, it's really quite inspiring,
Jennifer, to hear you. You continue to do this
extraordinary, pathbreaking scientific work but
also sounds like you're starting to innovate how we do
science, and create ventures, and structures in
order to do science. I have to ask you this,
though, which is-- you have a unique point of view. As somebody who has been in the
eye of the storm, if you like, with regards to
research breakthrough that people, on the one
hand, find hugely exciting and, sometimes, also
find quite concerning with societal implications,
what can all of us working on AI learn from your
experience with CRISPR? Because you could
argue AI has some of the same exciting,
and complicated, and concerning characteristics. JENNIFER DOUDNA: Absolutely. Well, I think back to 2000-- I think it was 2014,
the end of 2014. We had published our
work on CRISPR in 2012. And by the end of
2014, scientists were already using
CRISPR in monkey embryos that were implanted
and were genome-edited, not just in particular tissues
but in the entire organism, such that they could pass those gene
edits to future generations. And so when I read
that academic paper, it was very clear
that this would-- I didn't see any reason why it
wouldn't be possible to do it in human beings. And as some of you here
may know, that, in fact, did come to pass. And so what that motivated for
me was the realization that I couldn't-- it wasn't going to be
enough just to put my head down and work in the lab or
work with our institute. We really had to be
implementing a whole team-- and we have this now at IGI-- that works on public impact. And we ended up involving the
Royal Society, and the National Academies in the United
States, as well as equivalent organizations in
other countries, to boot up a series of
international meetings on human-genome editing. And so, in fact, the
most recent of those was held here in London
in March of last year. And that's led to a very open,
transparent conversation. It's gotten groups involved,
including the World Health Organization, to encourage a
transparent database of work that's going on using genome
editing by scientists, especially if they're using
it in the human germline or for applications in the
environment that could also have global impact and could be
dangerous if not used properly. So, I think, one
thing that we've learned from that experience is
that it's incredibly important to encourage that kind of
open, transparent conversation. It can't just
involve scientists. It has to include
other stakeholders. We work very hard at Innovative
Genomics Institute to make knowledge and data accessible
to people that are not experts. So we have a lot of high-school
teachers, for example, that we work with, that-- we give them resources to
help educate their students about genome editing, what it
means, and where it's going. So, I think, this
is something that will be incredibly valuable
also in the AI space, doing the same kind
of encouragement of public discussion,
knowledge-based decision making. I mean, this is just so
important, especially now. JAMES MANYIKA: Absolutely. And we're trying to learn from
your examples and the paths and approaches you've taken. I mean, in much of the work that
we do, including in AlphaFold. I mean, my colleagues
Demis, and John, and others went through
an extraordinary process with ethicists and others
before that work ever saw the light of day
to think through, what are the implications and
possibilities of all of that? But there's so much
more still to learn. But I wanted to just to thank
you for taking the time. There's so much to be
excited about here, and it's an absolute
honor to have been in conversation with you. And thank you for all
the work you're doing. JENNIFER DOUDNA: Thank you. Thank you for
including me, James. Great to be here. [APPLAUSE]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: YaRWtrnG6TA (https://youtu.be/YaRWtrnG6TA) ===


[APPLAUSE] JAMES MANYIKA: AI's
impact on science has been in the
headlines lately, but the potential for
AI to advance science has long been a motivating force
for many of us in the field, dating back to the early AI
researchers, such as Alan Turing and Christopher
Longuet-Higgins, and to many in recent
decades, including my colleagues at Google
DeepMind and Google Research. The excitement
around AI in science is not because of
a belief that AI is a replacement for
scientists, but because many of the confounding
problems in science benefit from the use of
computational techniques, thus making AI a
powerful tool to assist the work of scientists. We saw early signs of
this assistive capability with the potential in
the work of Hodgkins and Huxley's use of
computational approaches to describe how
nerve impulses travel along neurons, work
that would win them the Nobel Prize in 1963. Fast forward to my colleagues,
Demis Hassabis, John Jumper, and the AlphaFold Team,
whose work using AI recently won the Nobel
Prize in chemistry, solving the protein
folding problem, a remarkable achievement. This is a problem that was posed
by Nobel laureate Christian Anfinsen in the 1970s. So how is AI helping
advance science? I'll start with speed. In some areas of science,
increasingly capable AI is making it possible for us
to condense hundreds or even thousands of years of research
into a few years, months, or even days. AI's also helping expand the
scope of research, enabling scientists to look
at many things at once and in many new
ways, rather than one by one. In addition, AI advances, along
with the access to the insights from using it, are
enabling many more people to participate in research
so that we can further accelerate scientific discovery
to the benefit of society. Let me share briefly
a few examples of how AI is enabling
landmark advances, starting with the work of
Demis and John with AlphaFold. With AlphaFold, over
the course of a year, my colleagues were
able to predict the structure of nearly every
protein known to science, over 200 million of them. And with AlphaFold 3, they've
extended beyond proteins to all of life's biomolecules
and their interactions, including DNA, RNA, and ligands. To date, AlphaFold has
been used by more than 2 million researchers in
more than 190 countries, working on problems ranging
from neglected diseases to drug resistant bacteria. AlphaSense, which
builds on AlphaFold, enabled my colleagues
to categorize almost 89% of the 71 possible
missense variants. These are single letter
substitutions in DNA, and they were able
to categorize them as likely pathogenic or benign. By contrast, only 0.1% had been
confirmed by human experts, albeit in more detail. When the human
genome was initially sequenced, an
incredible achievement, it was based on a
single genomic assembly. Last year, my colleagues
in Google Research, using AI tools and
work with a consortium of academic collaborators,
released the first draft reference human pangenome. This was based on 47
genomic assemblies, thus better representing
human genetic diversity. In neuroscience, a
10 year collaboration between my colleagues in
Google Research, the Max Planck Institute, and the
Lichtman Lab at Harvard recently produced
a nanoscale mapping of a piece of the human brain. That is at a level of detail
never previously achieved before. This project
revealed never before seen structures in
the human brain that may change our understanding
of how the brain works and maybe perhaps open pathways
to understanding diseases like Alzheimer's and many more. The full mapping of this has
been made publicly available for researchers to build on. Beyond the life
sciences, we're seeing progress in other domains. In a landmark achievement
for climate modeling, we combine machine learning
with traditional physics-based approach to build NeuralGCM. This allows us to simulate
the atmosphere more accurately and efficiently. In fact, NeuralGCM can
simulate over 70,000 days of the atmosphere in the time
it would take a state of the art physics-based model to
simulate only 19 days. There are other
similar breakthroughs, such as the work by my
colleagues at Google DeepMind with GraphCast, which is able
to provide very accurate 10 day forecasts that are much
better than the gold standard in weather forecasting. Our quantum AI team
is making progress on questions that were
previously the realm of science fiction, like studying
the characteristics of traversable wormholes. This opens up new possibilities
for testing quantum gravity theories, originally posed
with the Einstein-Rosen bridge almost 90 years ago. In fact, quantum
is an area where we're beginning to see promising
bi-directional reinforcement between AI and science. In one direction, AI is
advancing our progress in quantum computing. And in the other, quantum is
helping advance research in AI. There are many
other such examples that we're working on in
material science, fusion, mathematics, and more,
and in all of these, in deep collaboration
with academic scientists. Beyond such
breakthroughs in science, AI is also advancing science
in ways that are already providing tangible benefits
for real people in areas like climate change
and health care. Let me start with an example
from climate adaptation. Flood forecasting is a much
more frequent and urgent problem due to climate change. And now advances
in AI have enabled us to fill large gaps in data
to predict riverine floods, up to seven days in advance with
the same accuracy as now casts. After an initial
pilot in Bangladesh, our early warning
platform, Flood Hub, now covers 100 countries,
covering 700 million people with such flood forecasts. And in an example in
climate mitigation, consider the following. The formation of contrails,
those streaks of white that you see behind
airplanes, has long been known as a driver
of emissions in aviation, accounting for as much as 35%
of aviation's global warming impact. My colleagues in Google
Research developed an AI model that predicts where
contrails are likely to form and, in partnership
with American Airlines, tested this in over 70 flights. We measured the impact and found
a 54% reduction in emissions. Similarly, AI offers much
promise for disease detection, especially in low resource
communities and countries and regions of the world. For example, eight years
ago, Google researchers found that AI could accurately
interpret retinal scans to detect diabetic retinopathy,
a preventable cause of blindness that affects roughly
100 million people. We developed a screening tool
that's been used in more than 600,000 screenings worldwide. And in new partnerships
in Thailand and India will enable 6 million screenings
over the coming few years. We've been implementing
other examples, including in tuberculosis,
colorectal cancer, breast cancer, and maternal health. Despite all this progress,
this is just the beginning. There's still so
much more to do. I see three areas of focus
to help to fully realize AI's potential to
help advance science and bring tangible
benefits to society. First, we need to
continue to make progress on AI's current limitations
and shortcomings and to increase
AI's capabilities to be able to
assist in developing novel scientific concepts,
theories, experiments and more. Second, we need a
sustained commitment to the scientific method,
something my colleague Demis Hassabis is always
talking about, imploring us to
pay attention to, and to also focus on
responsible approaches to using AI to advance science. We need scientists,
ethicists, and safety experts, like many in this
room, working together to address the risks most
particular to science, like viruses and bioweapons,
as well as challenges, like bias in data sets,
privacy preservation, and environmental impacts. Third, we need to prioritize
making AI-enabled research tools and resources more accessible to
more scientists in more places and to make sure the progress we
make from all of this benefits people everywhere. I'm very excited
about what lies ahead in all of this in this
new era of discovery. There is so much
we can do together to build tools that help advance
science and benefit everyone. And there's so much we can do
to enable amazing scientists, including all of you in
this room and elsewhere, in their work. We'll be hearing from some of
these extraordinary scientists today.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: BfDACxrdAvQ (https://youtu.be/BfDACxrdAvQ) ===


HANNAH FRY: Welcome back to
"Google DeepMind: The Podcast" with me, your host,
Professor Hannah Fry. Now, those of you who've been
following us from the beginning, you will know that using
artificial intelligence to enhance a scientific
understanding of the world has always been a key
goal of the team here. You've got weather forecasting,
that's advanced meteorology. You've got nuclear
fusion for physicists, and perhaps most
notably is AlphaFold, which has been an absolute
game changer for biology. But if all of that seems
a little bit academic, a bit niche, perhaps, the kind
of stuff that should only really be exciting to a handful of
scientists in their labs, well, then hopefully, today's
episode will persuade you of the substantial impact
that these ideas can have on humanity. Because I am joined, once again,
by the guy who is in charge of scientific research
here at "Google DeepMind," Pushmeet Kohli. Pushmeet, thank you so much for
joining us back on the podcast. Quite a lot has happened
since we last spoke to you. How many nature papers
have you got now? PUSHMEET KOHLI: I'm
not really sure. We're not counting. HANNAH FRY: Too many to count. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: So I want to talk to
you about AlphaFold because it feels as though this is one of
the most exciting things that has advanced even further
since I last spoke to you. And I should say,
actually, that anybody who wants to know more
about how AlphaFold works and what it does, can
go back to episode one of the previous
series for more detail, but I guess just briefly, can
you summarize what AlphaFold is? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. So AlphaFold is a system
that, given a protein-- proteins make
everything around us. They are the building
blocks of life. And essentially, they
can be represented as a sequence of amino acids. And it's a great
mystery as to what is the structure of
any given protein. So if you are given a sequence
of these amino acids, a protein, what is its structure? And that's really important
because that informs the function of that protein. What AlphaFold does, it
takes a sequence of a protein and predicts its structure. And that's really
important for scientists to understand what is the
function of that protein. So that's what AlphaFold did. It solved that 50-year-old grand
challenge in science by making scientists able to find the
structure of any given protein in a matter of seconds. HANNAH FRY: So I guess actually,
a more accurate statement would be it was a
mystery but is no longer. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. There's still a few things that
are unknown about how proteins behave, the dynamics
of the proteins, and so on, but the one
standard big problem in protein understanding, What is the
structure of a protein? is now-- we now know about it. HANNAH FRY: So what's
changed since last time then, since the last series
when there was AlphaFold 2? What can AlphaFold3 do that
the previous versions couldn't? PUSHMEET KOHLI: That's
a very good question. Now, I said proteins are
the building blocks of life, but they are not the only
molecules in our body. Our body has many
other biomolecules. We have nucleic
acids, RNA, DNA, which are the recipe of life, what
makes you and me, Hannah. Then there are small
molecules, drugs that interact with these proteins. There are antibodies. There are so many
different types of molecules that are
interacting in any living being. And we want to
understand the structure of all these molecules. And that's what
AlphaFold 3 unlocks. It not only gives you the
structure of a protein, but it also gives
you the structure of, how do these proteins
form complexes or they connect to each other? Or how do they interact with
small molecules or antibodies and so on? HANNAH FRY: What's been the
reaction then from scientists now that this has had
a bit of time to be out there in the world? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So it was
very hard to actually-- my background, I'm a computer
scientist by training, and it was very hard for
me to actually understand the impact of AlphaFold. And the first time I realized, I
went to a conference, a biology conference, where a biologist
spoke to me and said, well, there was this protein
that I've been trying to study for the last 10 years. And I have collected
so much data about it, but still the structure of
that protein was a mystery. HANNAH FRY: Because it was
so, so, so hard to work out what the structure
might be before AlphaFold. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. And the scientists
had used AlphaFold and had the structure,
and then the question he had was, well,
what do I do now? I have the structure, and so-- like he had to completely
rethink what biology requires now in terms of the next steps. HANNAH FRY: A 10-year
project, and he just put it into AlphaFold, and it sorted
it out for him in a few minutes or maybe overnight. Was he excited or was that in
some ways a bit demoralizing? PUSHMEET KOHLI: No. I think there was a
mixture of both surprise but also excitement, something
that you wouldn't imagine. It's like, imagine giving people
an ability that did not exist. Imagine the first time
telephones came about, and you could now talk to
people who are miles away. This was unimaginable. And the fact that you
can take any protein, you can put in the
sequence of that protein, and visualize what
the 3D structure is, that just gave the scientists
a superpower that they had not imagined earlier. And there was a
lot of excitement as to what we could do
with that superpower. HANNAH FRY: And is that how
people are feeling, like they've got a superpower now? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. So one of the things that we
have seen is AlphaFold database. So we created this
AlphaFold database, which is, we found
the structures of almost all known proteins. And we put the structures
for those in a database hosted by the European
microbiology lab, our partners, EMBL-EBI, and this was
available-- these 250 million structures were available to
anyone in the world for free. And that particular database has
been used across 140 countries by 1.8 million scientists. And the fact that there are
1.8 million scientists who are looking for
protein structures, if that is not a
positive statement about the state of the world,
then I don't know what is. We think about
the doom and gloom in society, but if you look at
how science has progressed-- there are 1.8 million people
who are studying proteins. HANNAH FRY: So I think the
really notable thing when you talk to people
about AlphaFold is just how big of
a difference there is between the people
who understand it, that 1.8 million people,
and everybody else. Is this something that
you notice as well? AlphaFold doesn't-- it feels
a bit technical to really understand the magnitude of it. What are the applications
that you are excited about that other
people will understand? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So I
think, for a large section of the community, they see
AlphaFold as an AI breakthrough in the sciences,
but the scientists who work on this topic
understand the implications of it in a very deep way. They know the
implications of AlphaFold for extremely important
things like drug discovery, designing a new
vaccine, thinking about antimicrobial resistance,
thinking about new enzymes to decompose plastics. I can just go on and on and on. HANNAH FRY: But that's
not the only project that has been going on in here
since we last spoke to you? So tell us a little
bit more about what you've been working on. PUSHMEET KOHLI: So
we have been working on a whole spectrum
of different topics, from material science
to fusion, to working on new discoveries
in computer science, in mathematics, weather
prediction, meteorology. So there's a whole spectrum of
areas that we are looking at. HANNAH FRY: And of
those, where do you think there's been really
significant progress in the last couple of years? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So one of the
moments that we can talk about is our work on
weather prediction. Weather and climate is
something that we are all thinking about at the
moment, but if you look at what DeepMind
had done earlier, we had our nowcasting
model, which was able to make very good
prediction but at very short timescales. With our new model
called GraphCast, which we released
last year, we can now look at the problem
of 10 day forecasts. And what we have shown that this
new model can make these 10 day predictions more accurately
than some of the models that are being used, the
classical models that are being used by
the Met Office. HANNAH FRY: The supercomputers. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes. Which run on supercomputers
for many hours, and we can outperform
them in terms of accuracy and make predictions in a matter
of a minute on a single chip. I think in some
sense, this really opens up research in this area. So a lot of other people,
a lot of other entities can now conduct research
in weather prediction. And the results are amazing. One particular example
that was fascinating is that there was this cyclone,
Hurricane Lee, last year, which made landfall in Nova Scotia. And our model, GraphCast,
was able to make the prediction of the landfall
event nine days earlier-- HANNAH FRY: Wow. PUSHMEET KOHLI: --while the
classical models were only able to do it six days earlier. So they could give a three
day additional heads up. HANNAH FRY: It's a
superpower that doesn't just apply to biology, then. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Absolutely. The amount of impact that
AI and machine learning is having across all these
disciplines is amazing. And if you think about
it, it feels natural because, in any of
these areas of science, we are collecting a lot of data,
and the complexity of models that we are playing with
and we are working with is really expanding. And it's just very natural
that a single human mind has difficulty in
comprehending what are the real patterns in this data. And machine learning
and AI just give you that ability to figure
out what is needed in many of these problems. HANNAH FRY: You mentioned
material science there. Frame for us the general
problem, as it were, in material science pre AI? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So what is the
problem of material discovery? You want to discover materials
which have certain properties. We have gone through all
these ages, from the Stone Age to the Iron Age to the
Bronze Age, and so on. And at every age, we are
working with a new material, and new material gives
us new abilities. And the problem of
material discovery is to discover materials which
have certain useful properties. Now, how was that done till now? It was done in a very
experimental sort of way. People try different
things in the lab. Sometimes the things
worked out as expected. Sometimes, things didn't
work out as expected. But there was no-- there were some rules of thumb. There were some
theory, but we did not know the extent to what
was possible in materials. HANNAH FRY: Often things
get discovered by accident, like vulcanized rubber or-- PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: Just sort of a
chance happening in a lab, and then a new material that
turns out to be really useful pops up. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. Like graphene. We all know about
this story about how this magical material was
isolated by sellotape, by taking pieces of carbon and then
repeatedly making it thinner and thinner by a sticky tape. And it has amazing properties. HANNAH FRY: Ending up being
the thinnest substance that can be manufactured. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: A single atom thick. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes. And it has a very
interesting properties in terms of
conductivity and so on. So before AI and before
even computational methods, that essentially was the norm. That people-- and even
today, in some sense, material science is a
very experimental science, where people are trying
to discover new materials for whether it's for
constructing a battery or for a photovoltaic cell or
for a superconductor and so on. Now, how computational
systems are used today is to then post-hoc
rationalize, why is that material behaving
in a way that it's behaving? But we are very
far from the place where we could rationally
design a material. Given a property, you
say, find me the material, invent a new material which
can maximize these properties. And that's what the
problem is for AI. Can we somehow in silico
de novo from scratch start to invent any given
material with some property? HANNAH FRY: So that
you can go in and say, I want something that is
extraordinarily flexible, extraordinarily light, whatever,
easy to mine, something, something, something. And then it's just like, here's
the physical structure of the-- atomic structure that will
result in that material. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. That's the vision. HANNAH FRY: Let's anchor
this to an example, then. So you mentioned
batteries there. We've got batteries. What's wrong with the
batteries we have? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So I
think they're doing well. They're lithium ion batteries. There are a number
of issues with that. First, they are based on certain
resources which are difficult. For example, the lithium
ion batteries, the batteries used today use cobalt,
which is difficult to mine. We might want to
increase the energy density of these
batteries in the future. We might want to make them
more thermally stable. We might want to
make them cheaper. And if you could somehow have
a magic sort of material, which can have higher energy
density, is more stable, is easy to manufacture,
then, of course, you would want to
transition to it. HANNAH FRY: And find it without
just waiting for an accident to happen in a lab. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: Are you sure
there is one, though? How do you know that
lithium isn't just the best that the universe has to offer? PUSHMEET KOHLI: It could
be that lithium is the best and we were extremely
lucky, and we found it, but that seems very remote. There is, the number
of materials-- just to give you an example,
there were around 20,000 inorganic materials
that people play with. Now, using
computational methods, 28,000 have been found out. So they are roughly 40,000,
50,000 known materials that were known to be stable,
in the sense that, at 0 Kelvin or under some
theoretical situations, they will not decompose
to other materials. HANNAH FRY: So if
you freeze them right down to absolute zero,
they don't split apart. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. So they are stable materials. So that was what was known in
the material science community. Our new AI model known
last year expanded that set and said there are 2.2
million new inorganic materials that are stable. HANNAH FRY: From 50,000? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes. HANNAH FRY: Wow. Wow. That's massive. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Right. And you're talking
about graphene, there are 52,000 single chain
layered materials in that set. So the number of possibilities,
the number of things that now we can search over is immense. And you asked the
question whether the lithium-cobalt batteries
are the optimal batteries, well, there are so many things in that
2.2 million set that one of them could be much, much better. HANNAH FRY: The chances that
lithium is actually quite-- what's it called? GNNME? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes. HANNAH FRY: What
does it stand for? PUSHMEET KOHLI:
Graph neural networks for material exploration. HANNAH FRY: And
how does it work? How are you deciding new
material structures that haven't yet been discovered? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So
it essentially tries to start with existing
structures and compositions. HANNAH FRY: 50,000 that we know. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. And says, OK, let me
change some of those, and then, I'll learn
a model to say which of those changes, which of
those modified materials are stable or not stable. And it is able to do those
calculations very efficiently, and that's where the machine
learning model comes in. It's able to make predictions
about the stability and the free energy of
these new compositions and these new crystal structures
in a much more accurate way. HANNAH FRY: So in
one sense, then, taking the 50,000 and then doing
some kind of atomic shuffling, if you like, just trying
different combinations, but then, the clever bit,
as you're describing, is that you can calculate
without actually having made ever this sort of fantasy
material which has been constructed by atomic shuffling. You can tell whether or not
it will be stable at 0 degree Kelvin if you made it. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes. HANNAH FRY: How? PUSHMEET KOHLI: You can
do that theoretically, but you will need to do a lot
of very complex calculations. And what this
model is able to do is basically approximate
those calculations and do it much, much
computationally inexpensively. HANNAH FRY: So in
many ways, actually, I can see the similarities
between this and AlphaFold. You're talking about the
atomic structure of something, right down at the level, I
mean amino acids and atoms, and then predicting larger
structural properties as a result. PUSHMEET KOHLI: So in
this particular case, you are given a new crystal
structure or a new composition, and you are told, is it
going to be stable or not? And the model is
able to say that. HANNAH FRY: How do you
validate it, though? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So we have
validated these in two ways. One form of validation
is by doing calculations. So when I said, these are 2.2
million stable structures, what do I mean? How do I say that
these are stable? There are theories
in quantum chemistry which give us approaches to
figure out whether something is going to be stable. These are very
difficult calculations. So we can run those
calculations on the predictions that GNNME has made and
see whether the theory says that those will be stable. So that's one way. And then we have also taken
a subset of the most stable predictions and then
experimentally try to validate them in the lab. HANNAH FRY: Like build it? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: Oh, wow. But then, hold on. If it's giving you some
fantasy atomic structure, does it tell you how to make it? PUSHMEET KOHLI: No, it doesn't. So then we have to figure
out how do you make it. HANNAH FRY: And you
have managed to do this with a small number of them? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes. HANNAH FRY: Right. And do they hold up? Are they stable? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. Yeah. And large proportion
of them are stable. HANNAH FRY: Give me numbers. Give me numbers. PUSHMEET KOHLI: This is
constantly changing-- HANNAH FRY: Of course. PUSHMEET KOHLI: --but the
success rates are quite high. Between 70% to 90% of those
that we try in the lab end up being stable. And then now once we have
those valid materials, then we also have
to think about, what are the properties
of those materials? Now, which of them would
be better batteries or would be useful
in photovoltaics or would be good in
superconductivity, and so on? HANNAH FRY: So can it also
predict the properties, then? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So no, not
our current generation. It just makes the predictions
about the stability of those structures,
but we are working on new models for these
other types of problems. HANNAH FRY: What kind of
materials are you hoping for? Battery materials
is one example. What other kind
of things are you hoping that GNNME one
will help develop? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So
one of the key things that people have
been thinking about is materials that can
exhibit superconductivity. HANNAH FRY: By which we mean? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Which
means, basically, they exhibit zero resistance. And why is that important? That's important because,
if you have such a material, you can create very
strong magnetic fields. You can store a lot of
energy using those materials. Why are magnetic
fields important? They're important
from everything to do with MRI scanners to
creating fusion reactors. The magnets that are
used in fusion reactors require very high
magnetic fields. So superconductivity is an
extremely important property. HANNAH FRY: And
at the moment, you have to super cool
things in order to be able to get up
to those high levels? Because otherwise,
it just gets too hot. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. And so what is the Holy
Grail in material science is to discover a room
temperature superconductor. And there have been
many attempts at it and some false starts, but-- HANNAH FRY: And some
quite cheeky pretending. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes. HANNAH FRY: This happen too. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah, that too. But I think one day,
if we discover it, it will be transformational. HANNAH FRY: And do
you think AI will be involved in that discovery? PUSHMEET KOHLI:
Yeah, I'm absolutely sure that AI will aid in the
search for superconductors, definitely. HANNAH FRY: At the very
least, accelerate the process. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: So that part
of making it, though. the way that you described
it was like, yeah, we've got to figure
out how to make it. So it feels like we're skipping
over quite a bit tricky part of the process. Is there any way that you
can automate that bit too? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. Once you know what the material
is, then it's a whole-- there is another sort of stream
of material science work, which is, how do you make
something cheaply? And there is a lot of work
happening in that area as well, but at the moment, our
team is looking more on the discovery side. And just to say, we
have to be also be cautious in saying
that a lot of it-- yes, there are these 2.2 million
materials, but how many of them, as you said, are
valid materials, which actually will prove
out when synthesized? How many of them are useful and
will have interesting material properties? All of that are open questions. But I think the fact that
there is this new place that we find ourselves in in that-- from 20,000 to 2.2 million,
it's a different ball game. HANNAH FRY: Absolutely. Here's another open question. How long do you think it will be
before the first AI developed-- or material developed
with the assistance of AI makes a big difference? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So I think,
unlike biology, materials science is much more
experimental at the moment. Drug discovery is still-- and biology still has used
computational methods, but material science is
much more experimental. So it will take time, but I
think in the next 5 to 10 years, we will see really, as I say,
in silico material design starting to make a big impact. HANNAH FRY: So I just want to
zoom out a little bit further, because-- so you're sitting
here talking to us very confidently about material
science but also about biology. And you're a computer scientist. So how come you got into this? PUSHMEET KOHLI: The last time I
studied science was in school, and I came to DeepMind
hoping to work on general intelligent systems
and make them safe and reliable. But I was always
fascinated about, how can intelligent systems
have real-world impact? And that's what I used to keep
on having discussions with Demis with. And one day he
comes to my office and says, oh, Pushmeet, I think
we have a good role for you. And I said, OK, what the role? And I was assuming
some product area that I'm going to finally
use machine learning for. And he said, we want to
start a science team, and you should lead it. And I said, why me? Science, I have no background. I studied science in school. I loved it at school, but then
I became a computer scientist, and then that's what I did. But he said, well, see you're
into multidisciplinary research. You want to understand
the problems and you want to have
real-world impact. And what better
place to have impact in pushing the
boundaries of knowledge forward in the natural sciences? So I said, OK. I agreed. And then over the
next couple of months, I found what I've
got myself into, because, if somebody
was designing a job to experience imposter
syndrome, this is the job. Because you will be working
with Nobel Prize winners and trying to understand
those problems, and you don't have no clue. And you're trying to
make a difference, and you start from Wikipedia. HANNAH FRY: You
start from Wikipedia? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. You start from Wikipedia
and try to get a crash course in the area, but-- I mean the scientific
community is amazing. People are there who are
willing to sit down with you, are willing to teach you or
go on that journey with you. HANNAH FRY: I guess the
really key point, though, is that you really,
really, really understand the heart of these algorithms. You really understand
the type of systems that they can perform well in
and where they can really excel. And so in some ways,
the fact that you're talking about lots
of different areas, meteorology on the one hand,
material science on another, then biology,
actually, I can see how there are these,
behind the scenes, these actual technical
similarities between the systems that you're designing. So in many ways,
being a generalist, it requires a generalist to be
able to do this kind of stuff? PUSHMEET KOHLI:
Yeah, absolutely. If you think about intelligence,
what is intelligence? How do you create intelligence? Intelligence does not
happen in a vacuum. Suddenly, you have a system
which gets the intuitions and is able to make
these new discoveries. It happens through experience. And what form of experience? How rich is your experience? And this holds true
for humans as well. The amount of things
that we see in our life, it gives us a
different perspective. And so, with these models,
the richness of the data that they see, whether
that data is collected by a scientist in a lab or
whether that data is generated by simulations, if
it is rich enough-- you want the data
to be rich enough so that the model is forced
to learn general concepts to explain that data. And then the other
sort of element is to have good
evaluation metrics. Machine learning methods
are very good at cheating. They are amazing
at memorization. They are like the student
that can memorize anything. So if you just give them a lot
of data, they will memorize it. And you ask them any question
from the-- which is close to the training set, and
they will say, ah, yeah, this is the answer, but
they actually don't-- HANNAH FRY: Understand
what's going on. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: I guess
that must have happened quite a
lot with proteins at some point or another. They've just seen they've peaked
at the back of the textbook. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. And so what we had
to do is make sure that we made that
test extremely hard, made it impossible to cheat. And the true test of a good
machine learning system is its ability to generalize, to
unseen examples, to have those-- to make those
predictions in things which it had never seen before. So understanding what
is the right data and what is the right
evaluation metric for a different
scientific discipline is one part of the problem. It was one of the things that I
needed to work with our teams. And then the other
part of the solution is, in the design
of these machine learning models and
these AI models, you want to learn from
data, but you also want to bake in any
information that you can about the problem into the
design of the model itself. And that is where domain
knowledge makes a lot of sense. You don't want to start from
scratch if you don't have to. So in all our
projects, we started with a very
multidisciplinary viewpoint. We got in experts, we asked
them what was working, what was not working, and
tried to inject everything that was currently known into
the design of the model itself. HANNAH FRY: But it's noticeable
that the common theme of everything that
you've described there is where there is a
version of success. There's a right answer
that you are looking for, like the true underlying
structure of the protein, whether it's truly
stable or not, whether you really are
predicting the weather. Is that absolutely crucial,
then, for any of these projects? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Absolutely. You really need to
have a good sense of what does success look like. HANNAH FRY: So then when it
comes to choosing projects-- because, I mean, if you are,
as you say, the generalist who can, with domain-specific
knowledge, adapt these algorithms
to anything, how do you decide
what's worth your time? PUSHMEET KOHLI: That's
a very good question. And there are a number of
dimensions that we look at. One dimension is the data. If there is no data and
there is no experience, the machine learning model
will not learn by itself. So that's one of the
important considerations. The second thing--
and this is something that we have also always sort of
considered from the very start-- is a focus on root
node problems, problems that are so fundamental
that once you unlock them, they have implications for a
number of different applications downstream. And protein folding, as
I said, had implications for drug discovery
to design new enzymes for plastic
decomposition and so on. And the same thing is
true for materials. If you can understand
material discovery in a transformational
way, that has so many different applications. HANNAH FRY: It's
much more effective than only looking at, say, one
particular drug for Alzheimer's or whatever it might be. So then, do you have a list? Is there a whiteboard
somewhere in this building where you have a list
of potential projects and then you're evaluating
them on that basis? Which ones have got good data? Which ones are more important
problems than others? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Absolutely. We are constantly doing that. And there is a
lot of uncertainty that we have to deal with. So we approach the problem
in a scientific manner. We conduct experiments. We do exploration studies
and see, oh, yes, we are making progress. Some of our assumptions
were correct. So that means that we can
now make that big conviction commitment to that problem. And the other difference in
how we are operating is-- most of the topics that
I've mentioned to you-- we have very focused teams
that pursue these problems. And they are not
operating at the level of six months or 12 months. They are operating at
the level of many years. They are dedicating
researchers and engineers in those teams, are
dedicating their whole careers to that topic. So we take that
responsibility very seriously, as to which are the
right problems that we should be working on. Like if we believe
that a problem can be done at Oxford or MIT or
Harvard or Berkeley or Imperial, we wouldn't want to
work on it, because we want to work on the
problems that really require a scale and the type of
multidisciplinary team that we have to come
together to solve them. HANNAH FRY: Well, let's
pick another topic then, because I think the big thing
that the world's got very excited about in the
last couple of years is generative AI and in
particular large language models. Have you started to incorporate
large language models into your research for science? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. So we are looking at
it across the board. I mean, there are two main
themes that we are exploring. One is that, till now, most
of the work that we have been doing in the
scientific areas, we were using structured data. So this is data, whether
it's genomic data or protein structure prediction
data, where you have sequences and structures-- HANNAH FRY: They're directly
connected to each other. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. The tables, right? But there's a lot of scientific
intuition and knowledge which is embedded in scientific
publications in free form text. And how do you learn
from that experience, from the diary entries
of key scientists that have worked in that area
over the last many centuries? So large language models
give us the ability to now ingest all that data
and to learn from all of it. So that's one key idea. The other way is
basically where you use the large language
model to generate answers in certain domains. And one example of
that is our project on algorithmic discovery,
aptly named FunSearch, which stands for function search. HANNAH FRY: Is much
better named FunSearch. I'm much prefer that as well. PUSHMEET KOHLI: I think our
team was very proud of-- HANNAH FRY: Of that. PUSHMEET KOHLI: --of the name. HANNAH FRY: The fun team. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah, exactly. The fun team working
on FunSearch. They are trying to
discover new algorithms for important problems
in computer science. And the model is asked, here is
a problem, an important problem in computer science,
whether it's a conceptual problem like
the bin packing problem, given a set of boxes
and some items, how do you compactly pack
those items in those boxes? And you might think,
well, I do it at home. What's the relevance of it? That conceptual
problem is everywhere. It's in how delivery companies
go and deliver your groceries to your homes or how
cloud providers schedule computational jobs on different
computers that they have. So it's a very, very important
problem in the real world. And so what this
model does, it then tries to make new--
propose new algorithms. And many of those algorithms
are maybe well known algorithms that it had seen before. And we tell it,
well, that's fine, but try to improve
this particular part and try to refine it. And it goes on
trying to refine it. And sometimes, it
makes a mistake, and we tell it, oh, here's
the mistake that you've made. And it keeps on doing that. We try to get the right
solutions and feed it back. And in that process,
sometimes, it discovers something completely
new that was not known before and ends up improving
the performance or coming up with a new
heuristic or a new algorithm, which solves the problem in a
remarkably different and much more efficient manner. HANNAH FRY: So the reason
it's able to do that, then, is because there's this
deeper network of connections between knowledge that isn't
necessarily visible to us. So is that why
sometimes large language models will hallucinate in a
way that sort of makes sense? So I don't know. Maybe one would say Marie
Curie invented penicillin. And of course, she didn't,
but she did come up with a discovery that was really
important around the same time. So it can swap over
pieces of information, as it were, because it's
seeing deeper connections that aren't visible to us. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Absolutely. It is basically, because it's
operating in that latent space, it feels that there are
certain things which are related to each other. And in the case of the
Marie Curie example, that was a mistake, and
that's a problematic mistake if somebody did
not know about it. It's incorrect information,
but in our case, that's a fine mistake to
have, because what we have is the evaluation
function, which is coupled with
FunSearch, which is coupled with the large language
model, which can call bullshit. HANNAH FRY: Like
a truth detector. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah, exactly. Which can call bullshit and say,
oh, this doesn't make sense, very, very quickly. So then, what matters
is creativity. So if it comes up with
something completely creative, we pick that apart and
say, oh, yeah, great. And the bad stuff
that it says, we are able to filter
it out very easily. HANNAH FRY: But every now and
then, the creative stuff it says is revealing something
more about the underlying network of knowledge. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: It's basically like
you've harnessed hallucinations for good. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes. Hallucinations are good
in this particular case if you can somehow
leverage creativity and keep the good part and
filter out all the invalid part. HANNAH FRY: So don't let
the fun team know that. They can call themselves the
hallucinations for good team. No, might get ahead
of themselves. So is it finding stuff that
wasn't known to computer scientists and mathematicians? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes, absolutely. So in fact, with
this method, we were able to get a new result
in computer science. So there is a very interesting
problem called the cap set problem, which is trying
to find independent sets in a structured graph. It's like a computational
problem where you have a graph and you are trying to find
certain sort of nodes and edges, which certain properties. And it has been studied
for a long time. It's a very interesting
problem in computer science. And what FunSearch was able to
do is was, for the first time, produce a result which nobody
had been able to produce. And not only was it able
to produce that result, but the algorithm, the
program that it had generated to find that result
had extremely interesting substructure
and intuitions that, when mathematicians, who
were working with us saw it, they felt that the
program had extracted a new symmetry in the problem. HANNAH FRY: Oh. So in this hallucination,
it had really stumbled upon something
that had been unexplored but turned out to be true? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. And it was leveraging some
very interesting property about the problem that
we had not told it about. HANNAH FRY: Wow. I can see how that
might be useful. Tell me about the Olympiad. PUSHMEET KOHLI: So there is the
International Maths Olympiad, which is a competition
that students take part in. Some of the best
students around the world come to this competition. It has very hard math problems. And if you perform
well, then you can get a bronze,
silver, or gold medal. The level of problems that are
asked at the International Maths Olympiad are extremely hard. HANNAH FRY: Yes, they are. PUSHMEET KOHLI: The current
generation of AI systems, for example, even, they are not
able to tackle those problems, but-- HANNAH FRY: They require
an incredible level of lateral thinking, of
logic, of deep understanding of mathematical concepts,
despite the fact that they're aimed at schoolchildren. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Absolutely. They're not your normal-- HANNAH FRY: They are
not your normal kids. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes, exactly. HANNAH FRY: They're not
the Demis's of the world. You know what I mean? PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. Exactly. I'm sure. I don't know whether Demis
has participated in one but-- HANNAH FRY: I bet he did. PUSHMEET KOHLI: --but
they are exceptional. And it has been a
long-standing challenge for a computational
system to be able to solve any of these problems,
because these are extremely hard mathematics problems. And mathematics, unlike
the game of chess or Go, is an open-ended
environment in the sense that it does not have a
specific number of moves. The moves are infinite. HANNAH FRY: And
in any direction. PUSHMEET KOHLI: And
in any direction. So it's an extremely large space
that you are reasoning over. And so the more
sophisticated AI systems are not able to tackle any
of these sort of problems. So we had a system
called AlphaGeometry, which, for the first time,
showed that an AI system can solve geometry problems that
are at the International Math Olympiad level. HANNAH FRY: So this is like-- I mean, how can
we describe them? So you get a picture of
some circles and triangles and squares and
things, and then you'll be asked something about-- I don't know-- how to calculate
some seemingly impossible thing from this image
based only on what you understand about the
rules of circles and squares and triangles. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes,
something like that. HANNAH FRY: It's really hard. PUSHMEET KOHLI: It's quite hard. And you really have to
understand not only geometry very well, but you also need
to be able to plan ahead and think about what kind
of solution can make sense, can lead you to
the final answer. HANNAH FRY: So how does
AlphaGeometry work, then? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So
AlphaGeometry, how it works, it transforms this problem,
which is given sometimes in text, sometimes in image,
into a formal language, into its own domain-specific
language in which it can reason about the problem,
and then it tries to solve the problem
in that language. Now, what the AlphaGeometry
did was very smart. They generated a very, very
large number of problems, synthetically
generated problems, in that language and the
corresponding solutions. So with this, they could train
the machine learning model on the hundreds of
thousands of these problems. And then that made it
extremely effective in, given a new problem of
that form, it could solve it. HANNAH FRY: It just knows
from its own experience. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yes. HANNAH FRY: Amazing. And actually, I can see
the similarities there, again, between that and
the material science thing is like, OK, let's
just use combinatorics. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: It's just
like, roll the dice, come up with loads of random
things in the beginning, and then narrow it down and
narrow it down, narrow it down until eventually it can look
at a single problem and say, I know how to solve it. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: I'm quite
jealous of your job. We have gone on a wild
list of topics here, but what are you
hoping to tackle next? PUSHMEET KOHLI: So I think
there are many problems that remain unsolved. In any area that
we're working on, whether it's
understanding proteins, whether it's understanding
the genome, whether it's understanding the weather,
whether it's understanding a material science, there
is just so much work that still remains to be done. We were talking about materials. We are only making
predictions about stability of these materials,
but how do you extend that to making the
prediction about properties of these materials and
then synthesizing them? HANNAH FRY: Have you
got a favorite, though? Is there one that you're like,
that's the one I really want? PUSHMEET KOHLI: No, you
can't ask me that question. HANNAH FRY: I can. I did. PUSHMEET KOHLI: No. I think all-- HANNAH FRY: Not all
your babies are equal. You got to pick a favorite. PUSHMEET KOHLI: I'm
a computer scientist, I love the computer
science work, but-- all of them have different
elements which are on the day, they are like, wow,
this is so amazing. When you are trying to learn a
policy that is going to control the magnets of a fusion reactor,
the day that that experiment happens, regardless of
what's happening, I'm-- HANNAH FRY: You care
most about that. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah, exactly. HANNAH FRY: Is there
one that you think, though, will have
the biggest impact? PUSHMEET KOHLI: I
think the work that we are doing in
understanding biology and in understanding chemistry
and materials, I think, it's so fundamental. HANNAH FRY: Such
root node problems. PUSHMEET KOHLI: Yeah. There are such
root node problems that it's difficult to even
limit what the impact would be. The effects are
difficult to predict. HANNAH FRY: Absolutely. I'm very much looking forward to
coming back and talking to you again to see what other massive
things have been happening and push me. Thank you very much
for joining me. PUSHMEET KOHLI:
Thank you, Hannah. HANNAH FRY: What I'm struck by
after meeting Pushmeet is that, the thing about science, it
moves really slowly, and then, every now and then, maybe
once in a generation, you get this seismic shift. You get a big step
forward that fundamentally changes our understanding. But the thing about this shift
of using artificial intelligence for science is that
this isn't just going to make a difference
to physics or one equation in cosmology. It's that this is
going to transform all of science and in
the most fundamental way. And OK, I know that I
sound like I've just swallowed the hype
here, but don't just take my word for this. Go and ask your friendly
neighborhood scientist what they think of
what is happening here. Because the people
who really understand what this means for the
world behind the scenes, they don't have words
for how big this shift is or is going to be. You have been listening to
"Google DeepMind, The Podcast" with me, Professor Hannah Fry. If you enjoyed that episode,
do subscribe to our YouTube channel, and you
can also find us on your podcast
platform of choice. Now, we have lots
more to explore on this podcast,
including a deep dive into how AI could
enhance education. Plus, should AI assistants
be given human traits? That is coming up soon on
"Google DeepMind, The Podcast." [MUSIC PLAYING]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: 64pndvbbokA (https://youtu.be/64pndvbbokA) ===


HANNAH FRY: Welcome back
to "Google DeepMind-- The Podcast," with me, your
host, Professor Hannah Fry. [MUSIC PLAYING] I think it's fair to say that
generative AI, as we have it now, is a bit of a mismatch for
our science fiction fantasies about what technology
might become. But it is worth remembering that
this isn't the only possibility. There are other
forms of AI forms, forms which are by their very
design, autonomous entities. These AI are firmly in
the realm of robot butlers or a virtual concierge that
anticipates your every whim before you even have it. And OK, we might have to wait
a little while for those two particular examples. But I'm talking here about
artificial intelligence with agency, AI that has
built-in wants and objectives and the ability to independently
make decision after decision in pursuit of its own goals. This kind of AI are
known as agents, and while agents
haven't yet exploded into the public
consciousness quite as much as generative AI
has, trust us, they are going to be a very big deal. And in the meantime, a very
good training ground for agents is the world of video games. Think about it--
perfectly packaged, neatly constrained environments
where the agents can run wild, work out the rules
for themselves, and learn how to
handle autonomy. If you've been following
us since the beginning, then you will know
that AI in games is something that DeepMind
has a proud heritage in. And so to explain
today, we are joined by Frederic Besse, who is
a Senior Staff Research Engineer at Google DeepMind. Frederic has a PhD
in Computer Vision and was one of the
earliest people to join the DeepMind
team back in 2015, when there were only about
100 researchers here. And before the decade he
spent at the cutting-edge of artificial
intelligence, he also spent some time working
in the visual effects industry on how to integrate
CGI into real footage. Frederic, thank you so
much for joining us. With a CV like that, I can
see why they wanted you. FREDERIC BESSE: Well, thanks. HANNAH FRY: OK, well,
so I think it's probably best if we start off
with some definitions. FREDERIC BESSE: Sure. HANNAH FRY: So, I mean,
I've talked briefly about what agents are there, but
how do you define them? FREDERIC BESSE: So,
in my mind, an agent is a very general concept. And I define it as an entity
that can act in an environment. I think action is
what defines an agent. And an environment,
on the other side, is a place which can provide
observations for the agent and which the agent
can interact with. And so what's
important to understand is that the agent, by
acting into the environment, will change the
environment, which is crucial for developing
AI systems that can do useful things
and understand the consequences
of their actions in environments, in
games, in the world, on the internet, et cetera. HANNAH FRY: This sounds
like something that exists beyond just AI, though. I mean, autopilot on planes,
would that count as an agent? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, absolutely. So maybe we can give a
few examples of agents because it's a very
general concept. So humans are agents
because we can act. We observe the world with
our eyes and our ears. We have proprioception. We know where our limbs are. So we are agents. We can affect the world. Similarly, robots as well. But if you go back
to maybe decades ago where we had agents such as
Autopilot, which we handcrafted the logic of those
agents, we were programming them to do
what we wanted them to do. So they were different
from the modern agents that we can talk about later
on, but these were indeed examples of agents. HANNAH FRY: So, all right. If that's an agent then,
is that the same thing as autonomy or having agency? Are these all slightly,
subtly different? FREDERIC BESSE: So I think
they are subtly different. I think an agent can
act and do things that it has been
programmed to do, and that's agency, being
able to take actions. Now autonomy is more the
skill or the property of acting by itself to
accomplish a certain task. And there are various
levels of autonomy. So if we have a self-driving
car, which will take decision to best navigate
the roads, you could say that there is a
certain level of autonomy. Some agents are
much less autonomous and will require a lot
more of your input. And then on the other
end of the spectrum, you could have an agent
that goes in the world and learn new things,
explore, which we don't really have to instruct much. So there are a spectrum
in the space of autonomy. HANNAH FRY: Is
part of that almost a hierarchy of the type of
objectives that you're setting? Like, I don't know,
the autonomous action of picking up a cup
and putting it down is slightly different to
deciding what's for lunch. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, because
we are training agents to do simple things because
this is a starting point. But having an agent that can
cook for you your whole lunch-- HANNAH FRY: And decide what
you want as well would be nice. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, as well. It would be a recommender system
will require a lot of sub steps and sub tasks too, and
solve those tasks properly as well first. So we call those
high-level tasks compared to short-horizon
tasks, which will be very basic, almost mechanical actions,
like grab an object, put the objects on the table,
compared to cook lunch. HANNAH FRY: Yeah,
like the robots you see in factories, for
example, versus the type of ones that we have in science fiction. But is that the aim? Are we talking about
robots eventually that will be in our homes? FREDERIC BESSE: I think so. So what we are trying to do
is to develop general agents. And we want to
reach a point, which we call AGI, Artificial
General Intelligence, which is a point where we will have
agents and AI systems that will be truly general, as
general as humans, will be able to adapt to new
situations, reason like we do, and even surpass our
capabilities in doing tasks. Once we reach this level of
competency in AI systems, this will unlock
a lot of potential for what we can do as humans. Those AI systems will
be able to accelerate our scientific
progress, for example, or do a lot of tasks which
maybe we are not very good for. For example, maybe driving,
or help you in your home, help you do shopping online. I think there are some
applications which we can't even begin to conceive
because this is such a technological leap that I
think we will just discover it as we go. But we do believe that building
such general agents, which can act into an environment,
is key to achieve AGI. HANNAH FRY: That's
interesting in the way that you're describing it,
that some of these agents are going to be
virtual, essentially, and then some of them will
be actually physically embedded in an environment. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. So I think it all goes back to
what's your observation space and what's your action space. So we can have physical agents,
embodied physical agents, like robots, which will be able
to do things in the real world, which will be very useful. And we already, as you-- HANNAH FRY: My robot
butler, thank you. FREDERIC BESSE: Exactly. But also virtual agents, which
work not in the real world, but in an abstract
virtual space. This could be still a physical
space, for example, games, which we use in our research to
also demonstrate and understand what those agents can do. But also, you could
have an agent that doesn't have any physical,
even virtual action space, but instead it
can make programs. For example, write Python
code, build software for you, which is not a physical
space, but it's still an agent because it can take actions,
it can compile the function, it can look on the internet. And so, this is
still very valuable. HANNAH FRY: How is this
different to the chatbots that we've seen from
large language models? Because they can do a lot
of that stuff too, right? They can search
the internet, they can understand your instructions
and make decisions, sort of? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. So chatbots, what you get
out of chatbots generally is a chat output. So they produce
natural language. Now, there are some
capabilities in some chatbots which could go and search
the internet for you. But this space is still
fairly constrained to just being either natural
language or specific functions that the programmer adds to
the chatbot to do things. Now those chatbots, when
they speak with you, I mean, in a way, you are the
environment of the chatbot, right? What the chatbot
says will affect you and will affect what you
ask the chatbot next. But maybe there is not
as much consequence as if the chatbot
or the agent was acting in an environment
which drastically changes when the agent takes some action. So it's a bit more of a
passive type of agent. We could call it
an agent, but it's very different from an agent
that acts in the real world. And the way also those
models are trained, they are trained with
a lot of data that are scraped from the internet. But they are not trained
in an environment to try to do things, fail,
understand why they failed, and try again. So this is a
difference between some of the way those models are
trained with human data. HANNAH FRY: So then, should we
be thinking of these as separate or can you combine the two? Can you combine large
language models and an agent that has an objective? FREDERIC BESSE: So
you can actually, there are some robotics
paper from Google DeepMind that is called RT-2 and
RT-X, which are doing that. So they are training. So a language model
has a lot of knowledge from the internet scale data
that it has been trained on. So if you want, it has
a lot of common sense and it understands
a bunch of concepts, but it doesn't have the ability
to actuate joints of a robot. But you can text
this model and train it to produce joint activation
for your robotic arm, for example. That's what they've
done in that paper. HANNAH FRY: I guess almost
the language model gives the algorithm some sort
of inverted commas, conceptual
understanding of things. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, I
think that's what is great about those big models is
that they have such knowledge and understand
concepts and words and what you chat to them
about that they can make plans. But all of this is
in language space. And we need to bridge the gap
towards acting in the real world or in the virtual world. HANNAH FRY: To go off
and actually enact it? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. HANNAH FRY: What is it
about games, though? Why is it useful to
start with games? FREDERIC BESSE: So I think games
offer a very rich experience and games are very varied. So if you look at
how many games there are on computers, for example,
you have tens of thousands of games. And each game offers
you different scenarios, different environments,
different things you could be doing in the game. So we think it's a
great proving ground to train AI systems to
match human performance. There are other
advantages in games. So they are virtual, so
they are easy to scale. You could instantiate a lot
of different games in parallel compared to physical
systems, which are constraints to the real world. They are also safe. So if things go wrong in games,
it doesn't really matter. It's just a game. Games are a place
where humans can interact with agents, for
example, in multiplayer games. And games are fun as
well for humans to play. And I think it's a great
source of experience data that we can collect. HANNAH FRY: Because you've
already got agents already in non-player characters, NPCs
floating around the place. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, yes. So I think that's a
very interesting point. Historically, and actually
it's still the case, when game developers create
agents inside of games, it's a very different beast to
the type of agents that we make. Those agents have access to
the internal code of the game. And the game developers
just write the logic, which works great, and they
are fast and they can do pretty impressive things. HANNAH FRY: Things
like stand around, and then if someone
approaches you, attack them. FREDERIC BESSE: Yeah, there is
some pretty complicated logic you could put in the game,
in the agents in the game, in the NPCs. But there is a limit in how
complicated you can describe a behavior in terms of code. And that's where deep learning
and modern agents come in, because those are not-- the
logic inside those agents is not handcrafted by humans. Instead, we subject the agent
to a lot of experience data, and the agent will learn
the behavior for itself in a softer way
with more nuances. And it can pick up on very
complex behavior, which maybe wouldn't be feasible
to write down in code, in programming language. HANNAH FRY: Rather than
just following rules, it's sort of working out how to
achieve its objective itself? FREDERIC BESSE: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: DeepMind's
got quite a long history of playing around with games. Maybe that a bit
trivializes it slightly considering the things that
they've achieved by doing so. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. So back in 2015, there
was the first breakthrough in neural network agents,
called DQN, for Deep Q Network, in which the agent was
trained to play Atari. And the breakthrough here
is that the agent was only using pixels as the
observation space. HANNAH FRY: So Atari is
like "Space Invaders," break out the one with the
bricks where you've got a paddle and a ball bouncing around. Like, the games you
had in the 1980s. FREDERIC BESSE: Yeah, so
the arcade games, exactly. HANNAH FRY: And the only thing
it would take as an input were the pixels on the screen? FREDERIC BESSE: So the
pixels of the screen. And there was also the
concept of reward, which is like how many points you get. And that is very important
for those agents to learn. Because what those agents are
doing and how they are trained, they are trained using a method
called reinforcement learning, which aims at maximizing this
score, maximizing the reward. And so combining deep learning
with deep neural network and reinforcement learning
yielded the DQN agent, which was first of its kind. And that was a very big
milestone for DeepMind. Then another important
agent that was built was AlphaGo, which
was an agent that tries to learn to play the game
of Go, which is a board game. HANNAH FRY:
Notoriously difficult. FREDERIC BESSE:
Notoriously difficult. I think it was uncertain
whether AI could ever beat the game of Go. But then that was
proven to be wrong. HANNAH FRY: When
AlphaGo beat Lee Sedol. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, exactly. So that was a huge result.
Then if you continue along the history, so this
is a non-exhaustive list because there is a
lot of research that has been happening
also in between all these important milestones. There was AlphaZero, which is
taking the agents that play Go, and also it could play chess
and Shogi, to the next level. And this agent was trained
without any human data. So while AlphaGo
was trained using a mix of human data and
self-play and reinforcement learning, AlphaZero was
trained without any human data. And just starting from
scratch with self-play, it discovered the
best chess moves, and that was very
interesting to see. HANNAH FRY: Extraordinary,
that taking the human input out made it better. FREDERIC BESSE: Well, yes. So it's interesting
because you can actually look at what are the most
optimal moves for chess, which is a fascinating find. HANNAH FRY: But then it
moved into computer games again, didn't it? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. So I think one next
very important paper was the AlphaStar paper, which is an
agent that is playing "StarCraft II," which is a game,
competitive game. That's very
different environment from, say, Go or Chess. So one of the challenge here
is that in "StarCraft II," you only see partial information
from your environment. There is this thing called fog
of war where you cannot see what your enemy is doing. And so you really have
to take this into account during your strategy,
while in Go, in chess, you see the whole board
in front of you. So you have access to the
whole state of the game. Also, the agent has to play in
real time because "StarCraft II," once you play against
a human at test time, you really have to play
as fast as you can, so that you cannot
take minutes to think. And the "StarCraft II"
agent was able to beat very, very good humans at the game. HANNAH FRY: So now this is
one step on even further. So it's like at every
step, you remove something that made it easy. So Atari, you get
points for every action. chess, you don't. In chess, you get to
see the entire board. In "StarCraft," you don't. In "StarCraft,"
it's competitive, in what you're
doing now, it isn't. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. So those agents were trying
to maximize the score and to win the game, while what
we do in SIMA is very different. We train agents to
follow instructions. HANNAH FRY: What's
this project called? FREDERIC BESSE: Our
project is called SIMA. That stands for Scalable
Instructable Multi-world Agent. And we used various different
video games and also research environments to train an
agent to follow instructions that we ask it to do. Those instructions are fairly
simple that you can typically carry out in 5 to 10 seconds,
such as pick up the apple, or turn around, climb up
the ladder, et cetera. And so there is no score. And we use the games
really as containers, as walls in which
we can carry out a whole bunch of instructions. And the amount of instruction,
the number of instructions that you can come up with is
very large due to the fact that we use natural language to
formulate those instructions. So this poses other challenges. We really want to make
our agents to be general. So while a Go agent only
learns to beat the game of Go, we are interested in making
an agent that can really understand what you're saying,
understand the context, understand the environment, and
then carry out this instruction. And so we are aiming
for generality. And I think generality is
a key property that we want in our agents to pursue AGI. HANNAH FRY: What do you
mean by sandbox games? FREDERIC BESSE:
So a sandbox game is a game where the
player can basically do whatever they want within the
space of what the game offers. So it's a game which
has natural landscape. You can craft, you can build,
you can cook, you can explore. HANNAH FRY: Like "Minecraft." FREDERIC BESSE:
Like "Minecraft." That's what we call a sandbox
game because there is not really a goal to the game. Some games are sandbox with a
goal, so it's a bit of a mix. But yeah, you just have fun
and do a bunch of things. HANNAH FRY: Like in
an actual sandbox. FREDERIC BESSE: Exactly, yes. HANNAH FRY: Well, how about you? Are you a gamer? FREDERIC BESSE:
Yes, very much so. I was given a Gameboy
for my sixth birthday. HANNAH FRY: Sixth birthday? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. HANNAH FRY: Lucky thing. [LAUGHTER] FREDERIC BESSE:
Yeah, it was amazing. I think my first
game was "Tetris." And yeah, I was amazed
by being able to play those games in the car. Car trips were never the same. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, that's true. And as an adult, did
you go beyond "Tetris?" FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, of course. I remember when we
at home got DSL, which could give you basically
constant internet access. I was very happy
because I could finally play online games
without being worried about the counter, how much
time do I spend on the internet. So yeah, online games,
competitive games, sandbox games, and [INAUDIBLE]
games, all of this I do quite like. HANNAH FRY: I
mean, so you've got basically the perfect experience
then to be in this space. FREDERIC BESSE: Looks like it. HANNAH FRY: The new
projects that you're working on now,
these sandbox games, I mean, they are
quite a big departure. How hard is it to get an
agent to achieve things in an environment
where you don't have that really clearly
defined metric of success? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, so it is a
very different style of building an agent training from before. There is some prior work,
which we were very inspired by, which was the interactive
agents project, there is a blog post on the
DeepMind blog post, where they use the
Playhouse environment with a bunch of
objects, and the goal was to get the agent to carry
out instructions in that house. HANNAH FRY: It's like a
simulated environment? FREDERIC BESSE: It's a
simulated environment, yes. It's like a children's
house with colorful objects. And the goal was to take the
teapots and put it on the beds, and there was no reward as well. So we wanted to take
this to the next level. And we also wanted to use
games that are not games that we make ourselves, that are
available for everyone to play. HANNAH FRY: So
basically it's the games that you guys are playing? Is that what it is? FREDERIC BESSE: Some
of them are, indeed. [LAUGHTER] HANNAH FRY: I just want more
time to spend on this game that I've been
doing, so I'm going to build an agent to do it. That's essentially
what it sounds like. FREDERIC BESSE: Yeah,
you could do it. And so, yeah, we
got into partnership with game developers
and game studios to be able to use their
games in our research. And we picked games which
are of a certain genre. So we wanted 3D games because
we were interested in these embodied 3D setup. We wanted to be able to define
our own objective with language. So if you go into
"Valheim," for example, which is a Viking
survival simulation, you can make up a lot
of tasks for the agents. You can say, go get
some mud, build a house, craft jackets, et cetera. HANNAH FRY: Then how on
Earth do you train an agent when you don't have rewards? FREDERIC BESSE: So what we
did is that we collected data from humans playing the game. And then we used a technique
called imitation learning, which teaches the agent to
just mimic and predict what a human would do next. So given all of the observation,
given what you've done before, what would the human do? And that's how we train
the behavior of the agent. So there is no reward. We just imitate
humans, which-- yeah. HANNAH FRY: Is it
probabilistic, then? Is it sort of like, in
this sort of situation, humans acted in
this way, so we'll act in that way with
this probability? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, exactly. So all the actions of the
agent are probabilistic. So before the agent acts, there
is a probability distribution, which needs to sample
and pick an action from. Often it's the
most likely action, but sometimes you can take
an unlikely action, which can lead to unforeseen behavior. Sometimes it's a good behavior. Sometimes it's not. HANNAH FRY: Go on,
give you an example. FREDERIC BESSE:
Well, so for example, we have a game such
as "Goat Simulator." HANNAH FRY: Tell us the
objective of "Goat Simulator." FREDERIC BESSE: So the
objective of "Goat Simulator" is to basically cause mayhem
as a goat in the world. And you can drive cars,
you can jump on objects. HANNAH FRY: As a goat. FREDERIC BESSE: As a goat. Yeah, you're a goat. You can have wings and
you can fly as well. But it's a perfect sandbox
game because you can do so many different things. And so in "Goat Simulator,"
there is a key which causes the goat to become all floppy
and ragdoll on the floor. I'm not too sure what's the-- when you would
actually as a player use this, maybe to pretend. HANNAH FRY: Play dead. FREDERIC BESSE: Exactly. But sometimes when we
play test the agents, it ragdolls on the
floor, which brings some funny moments in the
team when we do the playtest. HANNAH FRY: Just expecting it
to barge into a crowd of people and it just ragdolls. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. Yes. That can happen. HANNAH FRY: Can I see
what it looks like? FREDERIC BESSE:
Yeah, I'll show you. So here, let's start
by "Goat Simulator 3." HANNAH FRY: My fave. FREDERIC BESSE: So we
have a video of the agent here, which the instruction
is to go to a green object. [LAUGHTER] HANNAH FRY: We've got a goat. And we've got quite
realistic environment. And we've got the goat
trotting forwards. There's plenty of green, which
the goat is walking past, but it's doing a big
jump into a pond. And in the pond,
there is an inflatable in the shape of a snake, which
the goat has successfully reached. FREDERIC BESSE: It's green. HANNAH FRY: It's
definitely green. And it is an object. FREDERIC BESSE:
It's an object, yes. HANNAH FRY: And it did a
jump there to get there. FREDERIC BESSE: Yeah. So sometimes the agent picks
up on some human peculiarities. For example, humans,
when they play games, are often bored to
take the longest path. For example, climbing
up the stairs. If you have a
jetpack, you're just going to jetpack
over the stairs. So one of the first
agents where we asked, get up to the platform,
instead of taking the stairs the
long way, the agent just jetpacked over the stairs. So it does learn
about human behavior. HANNAH FRY: The
strange shortcuts. I also noticed that rather than
just walking into the pond, it jumped, which is exactly
what I would do as a human. FREDERIC BESSE: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: You want
to make a splash. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. HANNAH FRY: OK. All right. Well, I mean, it succeeded. It succeeded. FREDERIC BESSE: So this
is the game "Valheim," which is a Viking
survival sandbox game. And the task here that we
asked the agent to carry out is to pick up mushrooms. HANNAH FRY: OK, so again,
another very beautifully crafted environment. The camera is
moving around, which I guess is the agent doing
that, moving the camera around. It has found quite quickly
some mushrooms, shot them out of the ground-- I don't know whether the Vikings
had that particular ability-- and just carrying on
wandering through the forest. FREDERIC BESSE: Yeah. HANNAH FRY: OK. So definitely like camera
control and movement in that 3D environment, it's mastered. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. So I think because all the
games that we use are 3D games, the camera control is very
similar from all those games. So I there is a
lot of experience to learn from in terms of
controlling the camera. You can see that the movement
of the camera is human-like. So it hesitates. It's not very robotic, just aim
on the mushroom and go forward. And that's because it's
trained from human data. If you train an agent
with reinforcement learning to do the same
task, you could detect-- HANNAH FRY: As opposed
to imitation learning? FREDERIC BESSE: As opposed
to imitation learning, the agent would have very linear
and robotic camera motion. It would just go
to the mushroom. It needs to optimize its reward. So it will not spend
any time hesitating. HANNAH FRY: When you're
instructing the agent, you're not explaining
what a mushroom is or what a mushroom might
look like in the game? FREDERIC BESSE: Yeah, so it gets
that from the training data. So in this training
data, there is a bunch of sequences of humans
interacting with mushrooms, picking up mushrooms. And so it just
learns from the data. So an interesting task we
could ask the agent here is, if you hold out,
if the agent has never seen mushrooms or maybe
never seen red mushrooms, but maybe it has
seen blue mushrooms, and you ask the agent to
pick up the red mushrooms, is the agent able to generalize
color and object type? So those type of questions
are the questions we are interested in. HANNAH FRY: Which is
definitely demonstrating a sort of conceptual
understanding of the environment that it's in. FREDERIC BESSE: Yeah, it would. Yes. We're looking for this
generality and transfer between concepts and trying
to put things together, new concepts together
to carry out a task. And yeah, this will
show understanding of what a mushroom is and
what the color red is. HANNAH FRY: In a way, the way
that you describe the imitation part of it, the
imitation learning, it sounds a little
bit like you're doing a sort of computer game
version of predictive text, almost. Like, what has been done
in this environment before, how do you repeat it? FREDERIC BESSE: It
is exactly that. HANNAH FRY: Is it? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, so when
you train language models on language, the objective
in which you train, at least the initial
model, is to predict what's the next token. I mean, if it's assuming that
it's all human-generated text, what would the human say next? What word would
the human say next? Which is very similar
to this, which is, what would the human do next in
terms of the keyboard and mouse action? So you're right, it is pretty
much the same technique. HANNAH FRY: The same ideas. But the key difference here
is that you're instructing it. You're saying, this is
the objective for you and go and do that in a
way that a human would do? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. So it's given this instruction,
what would the human do next? But the language
models are also, in a way, prompted
with some prior text. So they would say,
given that this text is in your prompt, what is the
next most probable word that you should output? So it's not very different. The maybe infrastructure and
architecture of the agent itself is a bit
different, because we here need to produce a very different
modality, which is action in keyboard and mouse space. HANNAH FRY: It
sounds like it's kind of exploring the
network of actions that people have
taken in the past. Does it do original
things, then? FREDERIC BESSE: So it
will not do anything that humans haven't
done, per se, but the agent is
able to generalize to unseen environments, so in
a way that's kind of novel. So it's like, you're
a tennis player. And suddenly, you're asked
to do a badminton match, right, as a human. Because you've
learned tennis, you have some reflexes and
mechanics that you know. You know how to hold the
racket, how to strike a ball. And so you're going to do
fairly well at badminton. Not the best, but you're not
going to be beginner level. And in our agent,
we see the same. So what we've done is
that we trained the agent on all environments
except one, and then we test the agent on
that one environment. And we can see that
the agent is able to do a few things at a reasonable
level in that environment. So in a way, I don't know if
you can say those are novel, but it definitely shows
some promise with respect to generalization and
generalizing to unseen environments. HANNAH FRY: So, OK, tell me how
well does it perform overall, then? FREDERIC BESSE:
Maybe I can tell you about two interesting results. HANNAH FRY: Yes, please. FREDERIC BESSE: So
first of all, we observed that when we
train an agent on all of the environments,
it performs better than an agent that
is only trained on each singular
individual environment. HANNAH FRY: So you train
an agent on "No Man's Sky," "Goat Simulator 3," "Valheim,"
and then it does better in, for example,
"Goat Simulator 3" than an agent that is trained
only in "Goat Simulator 3?" FREDERIC BESSE: Exactly, yes. So that was a very
good result for us because it demonstrates
that the experience that you get from training
on variety of game make your skill in each
individual game stronger. So what I like to think of
is, let's say as a human, maybe to go back to the tennis
example, maybe I train on tennis and I train on badminton. And maybe I'll be better
at both of those compared to if I had only
trained on, say, tennis because maybe I gained some
extra skills and subtlety in the type of actions I need to
do from being exposed to a wider range of skills and experience. HANNAH FRY: Is it also partly
they're just exposed to more data, so more of how humans
manipulate 3D environments, more of different kinds of
things that humans might do? FREDERIC BESSE: Yeah. So games, different games
offer different situations. So the agent can extract
knowledge from those situations and maybe relate them to other
situations from other games. And so it just accumulates
and consolidates the behavior into something that is
better than not having seen this other experience, which in
a way, our hypothesis when we started the project was the
same hypothesis as the language model. Training a lot of data will
make some interesting properties emerge, such as being able
to generalize and transfer. And so, yeah, that's what
we also observed here. HANNAH FRY: But
then I think also, that result isn't immediately
obvious because it could well have been the case that actually
all the things that it learns from "No Man's Sky," like,
confuse it when it goes back to "Goat Simulator 3." FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. So we were worried about
that because we thought maybe there will be a destructive
interference between games. That's true. We picked those games to all be
3D because we thought there was a chance that some of the
experience would transfer between games. If we had trained on
"Tetris" and "No Man's Sky," we wouldn't expect any
positive interference here. HANNAH FRY: Slightly different
environment, isn't it? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. But because all of those games
have some similar concepts, same way of navigating
around, moving the camera, we thought maybe there would be
some interesting and positive outcome to training
on multiple games. HANNAH FRY: You told
me that there were two, there were two big results. FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. So the other game,
the other result, sorry, which I
mentioned before, was that when you train an agent
on all environments but one, it performs roughly as well
on this held-out environment as the agent that has only been
trained on that environment. HANNAH FRY: OK,
wait, wait, wait. So, right, you've
got eight games. You train an agent on them and
leave off "Goat Simulator 3." It's never seen "Goat
Simulator 3" before. And then you compare it against
an agent that's seen nothing else but "Goat Simulator 3." FREDERIC BESSE: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: And then you test
them in "Goat Simulator 3." FREDERIC BESSE: Yes,
and the SIMA agent here performs nearly as well
as the environment. We call it the
environment expert because it's an
expert in goat expert. HANNAH FRY: Goal expert, sure. FREDERIC BESSE:
So, yes, it doesn't perform as well, on average, but
it does perform reasonably well. So it has learned to
generalize to unseen. All the other games have
different avatars, for example. The agent has not-- HANNAH FRY: There's no
goats anywhere else. There's no goats in space. FREDERIC BESSE: But the agent
is able to move the goat around and perform a few tasks. Of course, there are some
actions in "Goat Simulator" which are specific and
unique to "Goat Simulator," and that we don't-- HANNAH FRY: There's no
ragdolling astronauts. FREDERIC BESSE: No, and
we don't expect the agent to be able to get that
because it has never seen it, or it has never seen
experience from it. But other things like
navigation, maybe concepts about objects and
colors, that is something that it can achieve. HANNAH FRY: So how
do you expand that beyond these sort
of tasks that last for 10 seconds, 15 seconds
of jumping and picking up a mushroom? FREDERIC BESSE: We
are working currently on trying to find
ways of doing that. First of all, there is a lot to
improve because our agent is not at human level, even for
those short horizon tasks. For longer horizon tasks, we
are looking into methods which would allow us to do that. You mentioned large
language models before, which are able to maybe reason
on a higher time horizon, longer time horizon. So maybe combining those models
with our agent could be a way, but that's future work. HANNAH FRY: Can I play
alongside one of these things, just to make my experience
of the game better? Can I cheat, basically? FREDERIC BESSE:
So some agents do find ways of exploiting the
games to do things that were not originally intended. So in a way, you could call
that cheating, I guess. But playing, like, once we have
very competent AI systems, which could do all sorts of things,
playing games with you could also be one
of the things you want to do with those systems. That would be quite
fun, I think, especially in these sandbox games. If you had an agent,
which you could say, OK, now I want to play hide-and-seek
in "Goat Simulator," and let's say it's multiplayer,
you have two goats, and you can play
whatever you want. I think it would be
quite fun to interact with an agent in exactly
the way you want. So the way we currently
sometimes use large language models is we prompt them
to do all sorts of things, write a poem, do some
role play, write code. If we had the same
ability, but also with an agent that has an avatar
in game, which you could prompt, I think that could be
lots of fun for gamers. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, it's
like, level, level, level up on an NPC, isn't it? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. HANNAH FRY: OK, so what is
the big objective here, then? FREDERIC BESSE:
So I think what we are interested in
in the SIMA team is to build truly general agents. So we use games as a
platform to drive innovation and breakthrough into
this particular space so that we can get
a step closer to AGI and understand how to build
those truly general agents. So we are really in for
the research towards AGI. HANNAH FRY: What's
the definition of AGI that DeepMind work to? FREDERIC BESSE: I think
the definition of AGI is an agent that is as general
and capable as a human. And I think the
general is key here. It could be better than a human,
but at least at human level. HANNAH FRY: So you can
pick it up and drop it into different
environments and it can do as well as a human can? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes. So, I think if you think
about gaming, as a human, maybe there is a
new game coming out. I install it and very quickly I
will be able to play this game. Maybe I need to go
through the tutorial because there are some
specificity to the game that I need to learn, but
in general, I think we are very good at adapting
to those new situations, to those new environments,
and be competent at it. And we really want the
same for our agents. We want to drop the agent
in a new environment or show it a new game and
observe that they can, indeed, also adapt and become competent
at those new situations. HANNAH FRY: Well, you've sort of
done that already, haven't you? FREDERIC BESSE: There is
still a long way to go. So, our agents have been trained
to only perform simple actions, but really, there is so much
more skills and scenarios which we could use
to train our agents. How do we make an agent that
could handle 1,000 different games? What does it take? There are some breakthroughs
that needs to happen. HANNAH FRY: So then
let's say that you manage that, which I'm sure you will. What happens then? Is the idea that you can take
that learning and then apply it to really generalist agents
that exist in the environment that we all live in? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes,
there are methods. How did we build the agent? I think the
understanding what method we use to achieve this result is
very important, that we can then apply the same method
to other domains, which we might be interested in. Understanding technical details
of how to build those agents, understanding how to collect
the data, which data is useful, algorithms, how do
we train the agent, I think that's very
important as well. So, yeah, any kind of
innovation and progress we can make towards
understanding the how to make progress in
AGI is what we are after. HANNAH FRY: But
these are lessons that can apply elsewhere? FREDERIC BESSE: They could
apply to other domains. Yes. HANNAH FRY: OK. So, give me an example, then. What kind of agents
should I be hoping for? FREDERIC BESSE: I mean, so are
we talking about the far future? HANNAH FRY: Yeah, go on. FREDERIC BESSE: OK, so I think
I could say an example of agents would be self-driving cars
that are safe and reliable. I think those are
agents which take actions that have consequences. And so having very robust and
reliable self-driving car, which can generalize to
unseen circumstances, would be very important. And I think the generality
here is very important. Because when you
drive, you never know what's going to happen. I mean, if we had agents
in the real world, one of the things we would like
would be for agents to carry out instructions for us. For example, would be
a robot in your house where you say, maybe carry these
heavy objects to the table. That's a task which is
defined in language, which would be very useful. Maybe virtual agents, which
can code and write software would be very useful for us. Maybe agents that can help you
in everyday tasks which you do online, for example, shopping. I mean, we spend a lot of
time researching what to buy. If I want a new
pair of headphones, I might spend
hours to understand which one is good for me. But if I could
have an agent that can do this research for me,
that would be very useful, I think. HANNAH FRY: I'm
just thinking about, I'm just going back to your
AGI stuff, actually, if I may, just to finish on. Do you think that the sparks
of AGI will happen in your lab? FREDERIC BESSE: Well, it's
very difficult to say, but we do hope, yes, that
the methods we develop will help to make
progress towards AGI. I think if we had an agent
that could play any games and carry out any
instruction in any game-- HANNAH FRY: And perform
a superhuman ability? FREDERIC BESSE: Yes, I think
that would be a good milestone to achieve because that would
show human-level intelligence, at least in games. But games are very
rich and sometimes are a bit like the real world. You need to understand
your surroundings. You need to understand objects. You need to understand the
consequence of your actions. Especially if you add
language into the mix because if you add language into
the mix for tasks, then really you could ask the
agent to do anything. So if such agent is
able to carry out any instruction in
any game, I think it would be one
step closer to AGI. HANNAH FRY: Fred, thank you
very much for joining me. FREDERIC BESSE: Thank you
so much for having me. HANNAH FRY: There have
been a few moments now while making this podcast
where we have been here at the early stages of a
project, before the results were grand or headline grabbing,
when there was only the tiniest little spark of
something to see. Like, remember when we
first visited the robot lab to watch them flailing around
in circles, or the first time that we saw AlphaFold when
it was only just starting to unravel the
mysteries of proteins? Well, I think it feels
a lot like this is the stage we're at with SIMA. Because sure,
picking up a mushroom isn't quite the vision
of the AI future that we've been waiting
for, but it's the direction that those agents
are moving in that really holds the secret promise
to what might be possible. Because if we want AI that
can make its own decisions, achieve its own objectives,
operate independently of our instructions, then this
is a vital step along the way. So today, it might
be a mushroom. The question is, what will
it be next time we come back? You've been listening
to "Google DeepMind-- The Podcast," with me,
Professor Hannah Fry. If you like what you just
heard, hit Subscribe on YouTube or follow us on your
favorite podcast platform. We've got an exciting line
up of conversations to come, including an interview
with Pushmeet Kohli, who oversees Science Research
at Google DeepMind. If you have someone
in mind that you'd love to hear from on this
podcast, do leave us a comment. See you next time. [MUSIC PLAYING]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: pZybROKrj2Q (https://youtu.be/pZybROKrj2Q) ===


[MUSIC PLAYING] HANNAH FRY: Welcome to "Google
DeepMind, the Podcast" with me, your host, Professor Hannah Fry. Now, when we first
started thinking about making this
podcast way back in 2017, DeepMind was this relatively
small, focused AI research lab. They'd just been
bought by Google and given the freedom to do
their own quirky research projects from the safe
distance of London. How things have changed. Because since the
last season, Google has reconfigured its
entire structure, putting AI and the
team at DeepMind at the core of its strategy. Google DeepMind has
continued its quest to endow AI with
human-level intelligence, known as artificial general
intelligence, or AGI. It has introduced a family of
powerful new AI models called Gemini, as well as
an AI agent called Project Astra that can process
audio, video, image, and code. The lab is also
making huge leaps in applying AI to a host
of scientific domains, including a brand new
third version of AlphaFold, which can predict the structures
of all of the molecules that you will find in the
human body, not just proteins. And in 2021, they spun off a
new company, Isomorphic Labs, to get down to the
business of discovering new drugs to treat diseases. Google DeepMind is also working
on powerful AI agents that can learn to perform tasks by
themselves using reinforcement learning, and continuing
that legacy of AlphaGo's famous victory over a
human in the game of Go. Now, of course, you'll all have
been following this podcast since the beginning. You'll all be familiar
with the stories behind all of those changes. But just in case you are
coming to us fresh, welcome. You can find our first
award-winning previous seasons on Google DeepMind's
YouTube channel, or wherever you
get your podcasts. They also, those
episodes go into detail about a lot of the
themes that we're going to hear come up over
and over again from the people here, like reinforcement
learning, deep learning, large language
models and, so on. So have a listen. They are really good, even
if we do say so ourselves. Now, all of the
newfound attention on AI since the last series does
mean that there are quite a few more podcasts out there
for you to choose from. But on this podcast, in just
the same way as we always have, we want to offer you something
a little bit different. We want to take you right to the
heart of where these ideas are coming from to introduce
you to the people who are leading the design of
our collective future-- no hype, no spin, just
compelling discussions and grand scientific ambition. So with all of that
in mind, I am here with the DeepMind
co-founder and now CEO of Google DeepMind,
Demis Hassabis. So with all of that in mind,
do I have to call you Sir Demis now? DEMIS HASSABIS:
No, absolutely not. HANNAH FRY: OK. Well, Demis, welcome
to the podcast. DEMIS HASSABIS: Thank you. HANNAH FRY: Thank you
very much for being here. OK, I want to know, is
your job easier or harder now that there has been this
explosion in public interest? DEMIS HASSABIS: I think
it's double edged. I think it's harder
because there's just so much scrutiny,
focus, and actually quite a lot of noise in
the whole field. I actually preferred it
when it was less people, and maybe a little bit more
focused on the science. But it's also good because it
shows that the technology is ready to impact the real
world in many different ways, and impact people's everyday
lives in positive ways. So I think it's exciting, too. HANNAH FRY: Have
you been surprised by how quickly this has caught
the public's imagination? I mean, I guess you would have
expected that eventually people would have got on board. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, exactly. So at some point,
those of us who've been working on it like us for
many years now, even decades, so I guess at some
point the general public would wake up to that fact. And effectively,
everyone's starting to realize how important
AI is going to be. But it's been
quite surreal still to see that actually come
to fruition, and for that to happen. And I guess it is the advent
of the chat bots and language models because everyone,
of course, uses language. Everyone can
understand language. So it's an easy way
for the general public to understand and maybe
measure where AI has got to. HANNAH FRY: I heard you
describe these chat bots as though they were unreasonably
effective, which I really like. And actually, later
in the podcast we are going to be discussing
transformers, which was the big breakthrough,
I guess-- the big advance that gave us those tools. But tell me first, what do you
mean by unreasonably effective? DEMIS HASSABIS:
What I mean by it is I suppose if one were to
wind back 5, 10 years ago, and you were to
say the way we're going to go about this is build
these amazing architectures, and then scale from there,
and not necessarily crack specific things like
concepts or abstractions. These are a lot of
debates we would have 5, 10 years ago is do you
need a special way of doing abstractions? The brain certainly
seems to do that. But yet somehow, the systems,
if you give them enough data-- i.e. The whole internet--
then they do seem to learn this
and generalize from those examples--
not just rote memorize, but actually somewhat understand
what they're processing. And it's a little bit
unreasonably effective in the sense that I
don't think anyone would have thought that it would
work as well as it has done, say, five years ago. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. I suppose it is a
surprise that things like conceptual
understanding and abstraction have emerged rather than been-- DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes,
and we would have been-- probably we discussed last
time things like concepts and grounding-- grounding language in
real world experience, maybe in simulations or as
robots embodied intelligence, would have been necessary
to really understand the world around us. And of course, these
systems are not there yet. They make lots of mistakes. They don't really have a
proper model of the world, but they've got a lot further
than one might expect just by learning from language. HANNAH FRY: I guess we
probably should actually say what grounding is for
those who haven't listened to series 1 and series 2. Because this was a big thing. I mean, we were talking
about this a lot. So do you want to just
give us an overview of what grounding is? DEMIS HASSABIS:
Grounding is when-- one of the reasons the
systems that were built in the '80s and '90s, the
classical AI systems built at places like MIT, they
were big logic systems. So you can imagine them
as huge databases of words connected to other words. And the problem was you could
say something, a dog has legs, and that would be
in the database. But the problem was, as
soon as you showed it a picture of a dog, it had no
idea that collection of pixels was referring to that symbol. And that's the
grounding problem. So you have this
symbolic representation, this abstract representation,
but what does it really mean in the real world-- in the messy real world? And then, of course,
they tried to fix that, but you never get
that quite right. And instead of that, of
course, today's systems, they're directly
learning from the data. So in a way, they're
forming that connection from the beginning. But the interesting thing
was that if you learn just from language, in
theory, there should be missing a lot of the
grounding that you need. But it turns out that a lot
of it is inferrable somehow. HANNAH FRY: Why, in theory? DEMIS HASSABIS:
Well, because where is that grounding coming from? These systems, at least the
first large language models-- HANNAH FRY: Don't exist
in the real world. DEMIS HASSABIS: --don't
exist in the real world. They're not connected
to simulators. They're not connected to robots. They don't have any
access to even-- they weren't multimodal
to begin with, either. They don't have access to
the visuals or anything else. It's just purely they
live in language space. So they're learning
in an abstract domain, so it's pretty surprising they
can then infer some things about the real world from that. HANNAH FRY: Which makes sense if
the grounding gets in by people interacting with the
system and saying that's a rubbish answer,
that's a good answer. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes. So for sure, part
of that, if the question that they're
getting wrong, the early versions of this,
was due to grounding missing-- actually, the real world
dogs bark in this way or whatever it is-- and it's
answering it incorrectly, then that feedback
will correct it. And part of that feedback is
from our own grounded knowledge. So some grounding is seeping
in like that for sure. HANNAH FRY: I remember
seeing a really nice example about crossing the English
Channel versus walking across the English Channel. DEMIS HASSABIS: Exactly,
those kinds of things. And if it answered wrong,
you would tell it it's wrong. And then it would have
to slightly figure out that you can't walk
across the Channel. HANNAH FRY: So some
of these properties that have emerged that
weren't necessarily expected to be, I want to ask
you a little bit about hype. Do you think that
where we are right now, how things are at this moment,
is overhyped or underhyped? Or is it just hyped, perhaps,
in the wrong direction? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, I
think it's more the latter. So I would say that in the
near term, it's hyped too much. So I think people are claiming
can do all sorts of things it can't. There's all sorts of startups
and VC money chasing crazy ideas that are just not ready. On the other hand, I think
it's still underhyped. HANNAH FRY: Coming
from you, Demis-- DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, I
know, I know, I know. HANNAH FRY: AI in 2010. DEMIS HASSABIS:
Exactly, exactly. But I think it's still
underhyped or perhaps underappreciated
still even now what's going to happen when we
get to AGI and post-AGI. I still don't feel
like that's people are quite understood how
enormous that's going to be, and therefore, the
responsibility of that. So it's both, really. I think it's a
little bit overhyped in the near term at the moment. We're going through that cycle. HANNAH FRY: I guess, though,
so in terms of all of these potential startups,
and VC funding, and so on, you who have
lived and breathed this stuff for, as you say, decades, are
very well placed to spot which ones are realistic goals
and which ones aren't. But for other people, how
can they distinguish between what's real and what isn't? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, well look,
I think you need to look at-- obviously you've got to do your
technical due diligence, have some understanding
of the technology, and the latest trends. I think also look at, perhaps,
the background of the people saying it, how
technical they are. Have they just arrived in AI
last year from somewhere else? I don't know. They were doing
crypto last year. These might be some clues
that perhaps they're jumping on a bandwagon. And it doesn't mean to
say, of course, they could still have some good
ideas, and many will do. But it's a bit more lottery
ticket like, shall we say. And I think that always happens
when there's a ton of attention suddenly on a place, and
obviously, then the money follows that. And everyone feels like
they're missing out. And that creates a
kind of opportunistic, shall we say, environment,
which is a little bit opposite to those of us
who've been in for decades in a deep technology, deep
science way, which is ideally the way I think we need to
carry on going as we get closer to AGI. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. And I guess one of the
big things that we're going to talk about
in this series is Gemini, which really comes
from that very deep science approach, I guess. In what ways is Gemini different
from the other large language models that are
released by other labs? DEMIS HASSABIS: So from
the beginning with Gemini, we wanted it to be multi-modal
from the start so it could process not just language, but
also audio, video, image, code-- any modality, really. And the reason we wanted
to do that was firstly, we think that's the way to
get these systems to actually understand the world around them
and build better world models. So actually still going
back to our grounding question earlier, still
building grounding in, but piggybacking on top
of language this time. And so that's important. And we also had this
vision in the end of having a universal
assistant, and we prototyped something
called Astro, which I'm sure we'll
talk about, which understands not just what you're
typing, but actually the context you're in. And if you think about something
like a personal assistant or digital assistant, it will
be much more useful the more context it understood about
what you're asking it for or the situation that you're in. So we always thought that would
be a much more useful type of system, and so we
built multi-modality in from the start. So that was one thing,
natively multi-modal. And then at the time, that
was the only model doing that. So now the other models
are trying to catch up. And then the other
big innovations we had are on memory. So long context. So actually holding in mind 1
million-- or 2 million now-- tokens, you can think of them
as more or less like words, in mind. So you can give it "War and
Peace," or even a whole-- because it's multi-modal-- a
whole video now, a whole film, or a lecture, and then get it
to answer questions or find you things within that video stream. HANNAH FRY: OK
Project Astra, that's the new universal AI
agent, the one that can take in video and audio data. At Google. I/O, I think you used
the example of how Astra could help you
remember where you left your glasses, for instance. So I wonder, though,
about the lineage of this stuff because is this
just a fancy, advanced version of those old Google glasses? DEMIS HASSABIS: So, of course,
Google have a long history of developing glass-type
devices actually back to, I think, 2012 or something. So they were way
ahead of the curve. But maybe it was just missing
this kind of technology So you could actually
understand-- a smart agent, or a smart assistant
that could actually understand what it's seeing. And so we're very excited
about that digital assistant to go around with you and
understand the world around you. So it seems a really--
when you use it, it feels a really
natural use case. HANNAH FRY: OK. I want to rewind a tiny
bit to the start of Gemini because it came from
two separate parts of the organization. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes. So we-- actually, last year
we combined our two research divisions at Alphabet. So obviously, the old DeepMind,
and then Google Brain into one we call it super unit, bringing
all the talent together-- that amazing talent we
have across the company, across the whole of Google,
into one unified unit. And what it meant was that
we combined all the best knowledge that we had
from all the research we were doing, but especially
on language models. So we had Chinchilla, and
Gopher, and things like that, and they were building
things like PaLM, and LaMDA, and early language models. And they had different
strengths and weaknesses, and we pulled them all together
into what became Gemini as the first Lighthouse project
that the combined group would output. And then the other
important thing, of course, was bringing together
all the compute, as well, so that we could, do
these really massive training runs and actually pull the
compute resources together. So it's been great. HANNAH FRY: I guess,
in a lot of ways, the focus of Google Brain and
DeepMind was slightly different. Is that fair to say? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. So I think it was. I mean, we were obviously
focused, both of us, on the frontiers
of AI, and there was a lot of collaborations
already on a individual research level, but maybe not
on a strategic level. Obviously, now the combined
group, Google DeepMind, I describe it as we're the
engine room of Google now. But it's worked really well. I think there were a lot
more similarities, actually, in the way we were working
than there were differences, and we've continued to keep
and double down our strengths on things fundamental research. So where does the next
transformer architecture come from? We want to invent that. Obviously, Google Brain
invented the previous one. We combined it with
deep reinforcement learning that we
pioneered, and I still think more innovations
are going to be needed. And I would back us to
do that just as we've done in the past 10
years collectively, both Brain and DeepMind. So it's been exciting. HANNAH FRY: I want to come
back to that merge in a moment. But I think just
sticking on Gemini for a second, how good is it? How does it compare
to other models? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, well, I
think some of the benchmarks are not-- the problem is
that we need more-- I think this is one thing
the whole field needs is much better benchmarks. HANNAH FRY: Yeah. How do you decide? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, there
are some well-known benchmarks, academic ones. But they're getting
saturated now, and they don't
really differentiate between the nuances, between
the different top models. I would say there's
three models that are at the top, the frontier. So it's Gemini from us,
OpenAI's, GPT, of course, and then Anthropic with
their Claude models. And then obviously, there's
a bunch of other good models, too, that people like Meta,
and Mistral, and others built, and they're differently
good at different things. It depends what you want-- coding, perhaps that's Claude. And reasoning, maybe that's GPT. And then memory
stuff, long context, and multimodal understanding,
that would be Gemini. Of course, we're
continuing to-- all of us are improving our
models all the time. So given where we started
from, which Gemini as a project only existed for
a year, obviously, based on some of
our other projects, I think our trajectory
is very good. So when we talk next
time, we should hopefully be right at the forefront. HANNAH FRY: Because there
is still a way to go. I mean, there are
still some things that these models
aren't very good at. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, for sure. And actually, that's the
big debate right now. So this last set
of things emerged from the technologies that were
invented five, six years ago. The question is, they're still
missing a ton of things-- so their factuality, they
hallucinate, as we know. They also not good
at planning yet. HANNAH FRY: Planning
in what sense? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well,
long term planning. So they can't problem solve. Something long term, you
give it an objective, they can't really do actions
in the world for you. So they're very much
like passive Q&A systems. You put the energy in
by asking the question, and then they give you
some kind of response. But they're not able to
solve a problem for you. You can't say something
like, if you wanted it as a digital assistant, you
might want to say something like, book me that holiday in
Italy, and all the restaurants, and the museums, and whatever,
and it knows what you like, but then it goes out
and books the flights and all of that for you. So it can't do any of that. But I think that's
the next era-- these more agent-based
systems, we would call them,
or agentic systems that have agent-like behavior. But of course, that's
what we're expert in. That's what we used to build
with all our game agents-- AlphaGo and all of
the other things we've talked in
about in the past. So a lot of what we're
doing is marrying that work that we're,
I guess, famous for with the new large
multimodal models. And I think that's going to be
the next generation of systems. You can think of it as
combining AlphaGo with Gemini. HANNAH FRY: Yeah, because I
guess AlphaGo was very, very good at planning. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, it
was very good at planning. Of course, only in the
domain, though, of games. And so we need to
generalize that into the general domain of
everyday workloads and language. HANNAH FRY: You
mentioned a minute ago how Google DeepMind is now
the engine room of Google. I mean, that is
quite a big shift since I was last here in the
last couple of years ago. Is Google taking quite
a big gamble on you? DEMIS HASSABIS:
Well, I guess so. I mean, I think Google
have always understood the importance of AI. Sundar, when he
took over as CEO, said that Google was
an AI-first company. And we discussed that very
early on in his tenure, and he saw the potential in
AI as the next big paradigm shift after mobile and internet,
but bigger than those things. But then I think maybe
in the last year or two, we've really started
living what that means-- not just from a
research perspective, but also from products
and other things. So it's very
exciting, but I think it's the right bet for us to
coordinate all of our talents together, and then push
as hard as possible. HANNAH FRY: And then how
about the other way around? Because I guess from DeepMind,
having that very strong research and science focus, does becoming
the engine room for Google now mean that you have to care much
more about commercial interests rather than the
purer stuff that-- DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah,
well, we do definitely have to worry more
about, and it's in our remit now, the
commercial interests. But actually, there's a
couple things say about that. First of all, we're continuing
on with our science work in AlphaFolds, and you just
saw AlphaFold 3 come out. And we're doubling down
on our investments there. That's, I think, a unique thing
that we do at Google DeepMind now. And even our competitors
point at those things as universal goods, if you
like, that come out of AI. And that's going really well. And we spun out isomorphic
to do drug discovery. So it's very exciting, and
that's all going really well. And so we're going to
continue to do that. And then was all our work on
climate and all of these things. But then, we're
quite a large team, so we can do more than
one things at once. We're also building our large
models, Gemini and et cetera, and then we have a product
team that we're building out that is going to bring all
this amazing technology to all of the surfaces that Google has. So it's an incredible
privilege, in a way, to have that there to
plug in all of our stuff. And we invent something,
it immediately can become useful
to a billion people. And so that's really motivating. And actually, the other thing is
there's a lot more convergence now between the technology we
need to develop for a product to have AI in it and what you
would do for pure AGI research purposes. So there's not really--
five years ago, you'd have had to build some
special case AI for a product. Now, you can branch
off your main research and, of course, you still
need to do some things that are product specific, but maybe
it's only 10% of the work. So there's actually
not that tension anymore between what you would
develop for an AI product and what you would develop
for trying to build AGI. It's 90%, I would say,
the same research program. And then finally, of
course, if you do products, and you get them
out into the world, you learn a lot from that. And people using
it, and you learn a lot about, oh,
your internal metrics don't quite match what
people are saying, so then you can update that. And that's really helpful
for your research. HANNAH FRY: Absolutely. Well, OK, we are going to talk
a lot more in this podcast about those breakthroughs that
have come from applying AI to science, but I want to
ask you about that tension that there is between knowing
when the right moment is to release something
to the public. Because internally at
DeepMind, those tools like large language models
were being used for research rather than being seen as a
potentially commercial thing. DEMIS HASSABIS:
Yeah, that's right. So as you know, we've always
taken responsibility incredibly seriously here, and safety,
right from the beginning, way back when we started
in 2010 and before that. And Google then adopted some
of our, basically, ethics charter effectively into
their AI principles. So we've always been well
aligned with the whole of Google and wanting to be responsible
about deploying this as one of the leaders in this space. And so it's been
interesting now starting to ship real products
with Gen AI in them. Actually there's a lot of
learning that is going on, and we're learning
fast, which is good because we're at
relatively low stakes here with the
current technology. So it's not that powerful yet. But as it gets more powerful,
we have to be more careful. And that's just learning
about the product teams and other groups learning about
how to test Gen AI technologies. It's different from a
normal piece of technology because it doesn't
always do the same thing. It's almost like testing
an open world game. It's almost infinite what
you can try and do with it, so it's interesting to
figure out how do you do the red teaming on it. HANNAH FRY: So red
teaming, in this case, being where you're competing
against yourselves? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. So red teaming is when you set
up a specific separate team from the team that's
developed the technology to stress test it and try and
break it in any way possible. You actually need to use tools
to automate that because nobody can red team-- even if you had
thousands of people doing it, that's not enough compared
to billions of users when you put it out there. They're going to try
all sorts of things. So it's kind of interesting
to take that learning, and then improve our processes
so that our future launches will be as smooth as possible. And I think we got to do
it in stages where there's an experimental phase, then a
closed beta, and then launch-- a little bit,
again, like we used to launch our games
back in the day, and learn at each
step of the way. And then the other
thing we've got to do, and I think we need to do more
on, is use AI itself to help us internally with red
teaming and actually spotting some errors
automatically or triaging that so that, then, our
developers and human testers can actually focus
on those hard cases. HANNAH FRY: You said
something really interesting there about how you're just in
a much more probabilistic space here. And then, if there's even a
very small chance of something happening, if you
have enough tries, eventually, something
will go wrong. And I guess there have
been a couple of mistakes that-- public mistakes. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, so
that's why I think that, as I mentioned, that product
teams are just getting used to the sorts of testing. They tested these
things, but they have this stochastic nature,
probabilistic nature. So in fact, a lot
of cases where if it was a normal piece of
software, you could say I've tested 99.999% of things,
so then extrapolates. So then it's enough
because there's no way of exposing the flaw
that it has if it has one. But that's not the case with
these generative systems. They can do all
sorts of things that are a little bit left
field, or out of the box, out of distribution, in a way,
from what you've seen before if someone clever or adversarial
decides to-- it's almost like a hacker decides to
test push it in some way. And it could even be-- I mean, it's so
combinatorial, it could even be with all the things
that you've happened to have said before to it. And then it's in some
kind of peculiar state which then-- or it's got
its memories filled up with this particular
thing, and then that's why it outputs something. So there's a lot of complexity
there, but it's not infinite. So there's ways to deal with it. But it's just a lot more
nuanced than launching normal technology. HANNAH FRY: I
remember you saying, I think it was in the first
time I interviewed you about how, actually, you have to
think that this is a completely different way of computing. You have to move away from
the things that we completely understand-- the
deterministic stuff-- into this much more messy,
probabilistic error-ridden place, as well as your testers. Do you think the
public slightly has to shift its mindset on the type
of computing that we're doing? DEMIS HASSABIS:
Yeah, I think so, and maybe that's another
thing, interestingly, that we're thinking about
is actually putting out a kind of principles document
or something before you release something to show what is the
expectation from this system. What's it designed for? What's it useful for? What can't it do? And I think there is some sort
of education there needed of, you'll be able to find it useful
if you do these things with it, but don't try and use it
for these other things because it won't work. And I think that
that's something that we need to get better
at clarifying as a field, and then probably users need
to get more experienced on. And actually, this interesting. This is probably why chatbots
themselves came a little bit out of the blue. Even obviously ChatGPT, but even
to OpenAI, it surprised them. And we had our own chat
bots, and Google had theirs. And one of the things was
we were looking at them, and we were looking at all
the flaws they still had, and they still do. And it's like, well, it's
getting these things wrong, and it sometimes hallucinates,
and blah, blah, blah. And there's so many things. But then what we didn't
realize is, actually, there's still a lot of very good
use cases for that even now that people find very valuable--
summarizing documents, and really long
things, or writing-- HANNAH FRY: Awkward emails? DEMIS HASSABIS: --awkward
emails, or mundane forms to be filled in. And there's all these use
cases which, actually, people don't mind if
there's some small errors. They can fix them easily, and
saves a huge amount of time. And I guess that was
the surprising thing. They discovered-- people
discovered when you put it in the hands of everyone, there
were actually these valuable use cases, even though the systems
were flawed in all of these ways we know. HANNAH FRY: Well, OK, so I
think that sort of takes me on to the next
question I want to ask, which is about open source. Because when things are
in the hands of people, as you mentioned, really
extraordinary things can happen. And I know that
DeepMind in the past has open sourced lots of
its research projects, but it feels like
that's slightly changing now as we go forward. So just tell me what your
stance is on open source. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah. Well, look, we're
huge supporters of open source and open
science, as you know. I mean, we've given
away and published almost everything we've done,
collectively, including like, things like transformers,
and AlphaGo. We published all these things
in "Nature" and "Science." AlphaFold was open source,
as we covered last time. And these are all good choices,
and you're absolutely right. That's the reason
that all works is because that's the way
technology and science advances as quickly as possible,
by sharing information. So almost always,
that's a universal good to do it like that, and
that's how science works. The only exception is when you-- and AGI and powerful
AI does fall into this-- is when you have
a dual purpose technology. And so then, the
problem is that you want to enable all the
good use cases and all the genuine scientists who are
acting in good faith and so on, technologists, to build
on the ideas, critique the ideas, and so on. That's the way society
advances the quickest. But the problem is how
do you restrict access at the same time for bad actors
who would take the same systems, repurpose them for bad
ends, misuse them-- weapon systems, who knows what? And those general
purpose systems can be repurposed like that. And it's OK today
because I don't think the systems are that powerful. But in two, three,
four years time, especially when you start
getting agent-like systems or agentic behaviors,
then, I think, if something's misused by
someone, or perhaps even a rogue nation, state,
there could be serious harm. So then, I don't have
a solution to that. But as a community, we need
to think about what does that mean for open source? Perhaps the frontier models need
to have more checks on them, and then only after they've been
out for a year or two years, then they can get open sourced. That's the model we're
following because we have our own open models
of Gemini called Gemma because they're smaller. So they're not frontier models. So their capabilities are very
useful still to the developer because they're also
easy to run on a laptop because they're small
numbers of parameters. But the capabilities
they have are well understood at this point. Because they're not
frontier models. So it's just not as
powerful as the latest, say, Gemini 1.5 models. So I think that's
probably the approach that we'll end up taking is
we'll have open source models, but they'll be lagging maybe
one year behind the most cutting edge models just so
that we can really assess out in the open by users what those
models can do-- the frontier ones can do. HANNAH FRY: And you
can really, I guess, test those boundaries
of the stochastic-- DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, and
we'll see what those are. The problem with open source
is if something goes wrong, you can't recall it. With a proprietary
model, if your bad actor starts using it in a bad way,
you can just close the tap off. In the limit, you
could switch it off. But once you open
source something, there's no pulling it back. So it's a one way door, so
you should be very, very sure when you do that. HANNAH FRY: Is it
definitely possible to contain an AGI,
though, within the walls of an organization? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well, that's
a whole separate question. I don't think we know
how to do that right now. So when you start talking
about AGI level powerful, like human level AI-- HANNAH FRY: Well, what
about intermediary? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well,
intermediary, I think, we have good ideas
of how to do that. So one would be things
like secure sandboxing. So you test--
that's what I'd want to test the agent behaviors
in is in a game environment, or a version of
the internet that's not quite fully connected. So there's a lot
of security work that's done and known in
this space, and in fintech, and other places. So we'd probably
borrow those ideas, and then build those
kinds of systems. And that's how we would test
the early prototype systems. But we also know
that's not going to be good enough to contain
an AGI, something that's potentially smarter than us. So I think we got to understand
those systems better so that we can design the
protocols for an AGI. When that time comes,
we'll have better ideas for how to contain
that, potentially also using AI systems and tools
to monitor the next versions of the AI system. HANNAH FRY: So on the
subject of safety, because I know that you are a
very big part of the AI Safety Summit at Bletchley Park in
2023, which was, of course, hosted by the UK government. And from the outside,
I think a lot of people just say the word regulation
as though it's just going to come in and fix everything. But what is your view on how
regulation should be structured? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well,
I think it's great that governments are getting
up to speed on it and involved. I think that's one
of the good things about the recent explosion of
interest is that, of course, governments are
paying attention. And I think it's been great. The UK government
specifically, who I've talked to a
lot, and US, as well, they've got very smart
people in the civil service staff that understand the
technology now to a good degree. And it's been great to see
the AI safety institutes being set up in the
UK and US, and I think many other countries
are going to follow. So I think these are all
good precedents and protocols to settle into, again, before
the stakes get really high. So this is a proving
stage, again, as well. And I do think international
cooperation is going to be needed, ideally around
things like regulation, and guardrails, and
deployment norms. So because AI is a digital
technology, very much so, it's hard to contain it
within national boundaries. So if the UK or Europe does
something, or even the US, but China doesn't, does
that really help the world? When we start getting
closer to AGI, not really. So I think my view
on it is you've got to be, because the
technology is changing so fast, we've got to be very nimble and
light-footed with regulation so that it's easy to adapt it to
where the latest technology is going. If you'd regulated
AI five years ago, you'd have regulated something
completely different to what we see today, which is Gen AI. But it might be different
again in five years. It might be these
agent-based systems that are the ones that
carry the highest risk. So right now, I would recommend
to beef up existing regulations in domains that already have
them-- health, transport, so on. I think you can update
them for an AI world just like they were updated
for mobile and internet. That's probably
the first thing I'd do, while doing a watching brief
on making sure you understand and test the frontier systems. And then as things become
clear and more clearly obvious, then start regulating
around that. Maybe in a couple of years
time would make sense. One of the things we're missing
is, again, the benchmarks-- the right tests for
capabilities that-- what we'd all want
to know, including the industry in the field, is
at what point are capabilities posing some big risk? And there's no answer to that at
the moment beyond what I've just said, which is agent-based
capabilities is probably our next threshold. But there's no
agreed-upon test for that. One thing you might imagine
is testing for deception, for example, as a capability. You really don't want
that in the system because then you can't
rely on anything else that it's reporting. So that would be my number one
emerging capability that I think would be good to test for. But there's many-- ability
to achieve certain goals, the ability to replicate. And there's quite a lot of
work going on on this now. And I think the safety
institutes, which are basically government agencies, I think
it would be great for them to push on that, as well. As well as the labs, of course,
contributing what we know. HANNAH FRY: I wonder, in
this picture of the world that you're describing, what's
the place for institutions in this? I mean, if we get
to the stage where we have AGI that's supporting
all scientific research, is there still a place
for great institutions? DEMIS HASSABIS:
Yeah, I think so. There's the stage
up to AGI, and I think that's got
to be a cooperation between civil society,
academia, government, and the industrial labs. So I really believe
that's the only way we're going to get to
the final stages of this. Now, if you're asking
after AGI happens, maybe that is what you're asking,
then AGI, of course, one of the reasons I've always
wanted to build it is then we can use it to start
answering some of the biggest, most fundamental
questions about the nature of reality, and physics,
and all of these things, and consciousness, and so on. It depends what form
that takes, whether that will be a human-expert
combination with AI. I think that will be the
case for a while in terms of discovering
the next frontier. So like right now, these
systems can't come up with their own
conjectures or hypotheses. They can help you
prove something, and I think we'll
be able to prove get gold medals on
international maths Olympiad, things like that. But maybe even solve
a famous conjecture. I think that's within reach now. But they don't have
the ability to come up with Riemann hypothesis
in the first place, or general relativity. So that, really,
was always my test for maybe a true artificial
general intelligence is it will be able to
do that, or invent Go. And so we don't
have any systems. We don't really know how we
would design, in theory, even, a system that could do that. HANNAH FRY: You know
the computer scientist, Stuart Russell? So he told me that he was a bit
worried that once we get to AGI, it might be that we all
become like the royal princes of the past-- the ones who never had to ascend
the throne or do any work, but just got to live this
life of unbridled luxury and have no purpose. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, so that is
the interesting question, is it? Maybe it's beyond AGI. It's more like artificial
superintelligence or something-- sometimes people call it ASI. But then we should
have radical abundance. And assuming we make sure
we distribute that fairly and equitably, then we
will be in this position where we'll have more
freedom to choose what to do. And then meaning will be a
big philosophical question. And I think we'll
need philosophers, perhaps theologians
even, to start thinking as social scientists. They should be thinking
about that now. What brings meaning? I mean, I still think there's,
of course, self-actualization, and I don't think we'll all just
be sitting there meditating. But maybe we'll be
playing computer games. I don't know. But is that a bad
thing even, or not? Who knows? HANNAH FRY: I don't think
the princes of the past came off particularly well. DEMIS HASSABIS: No. Traveling the stars. But then there's also
extreme sports people do. Why do they do them? I mean, climb
Everest, all these. I mean, there'll
be-- but I think it's going be very interesting. And that I don't
know, but that's what I was saying
earlier about it's underappreciated what's going
to happen going back to the hype near-term versus far-term. So if you want to
call that hype, even, it's definitely
under hyped, I think, the amount of
transformation that will happen. I think it will be
very good in the limit. We'll cure lots of diseases,
and/or all diseases, solve our energy problems,
climate problems. But then the next question
comes is, is there meaning? HANNAH FRY: So bring us
back slightly closer to AGI rather than superintelligence. I know that your big mission is
to build artificial intelligence to benefit everybody,
but how do you make sure that it does benefit everybody? How do you include all
people's preferences rather than just the designers? DEMIS HASSABIS:
Yeah, I think what's going to have to happen is-- I mean, it's impossible
to include all preferences in one system. Because by definition,
people don't agree. We can see that
in, unfortunately, in the current
state of the world. Countries don't agree. Governments don't agree. We can't even get
agreement on obvious things like dealing with the
climate situation. So I think that's very hard. What I imagine will
happen is that we'll have a set of safe
architectures, hopefully, that personalized
AIs can be built on top of. And then everyone will
have, or different countries will have their own preferences
about what they use it for, what they deploy it for, what
can and can't be done with them. But overall-- and that's fine. That's for everyone
to individually decide or countries to
decide themselves, just like they do today. But as a society,
we know that there's some provably safe things
about those architectures. And then you can let them
proliferate, and so on. So I think that we've got to
get through the eye of a needle in a way where as we
get closer to AGI, we've probably got to cooperate
more, ideally internationally, and then make sure we build
AGIs in a safe architecture way. Because I'm sure
there are unsafe ways, and I'm sure there are
safe ways of building AGI. And then once we
get through that, then we can open
the funnel again, and everyone can have their
own personalized pocket AGIs, if they want. HANNAH FRY: What a
version of the future. But then, in terms of
the safe way to build it, I mean, are we talking
about undesirable behaviors here that might emerge? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, undesirable
emergent behaviors, capabilities that-- HANNAH FRY: Deception. DEMIS HASSABIS: Deception is
one example that you don't want. Value systems. We got to understand
all of these things better-- what kind of guardrails
work, not circumventable. And there's two
cases to worry about. There's bad uses by bad
individuals or nations, so human misuse, and then
there's the AI itself as it gets closer to
AGI going off the rails. And I think you need different
solutions for those two problems. And so, yeah, that's
what we're going to have to contend
with as we get closer to building these technologies. And also, just going back to
your benefiting everyone point, of course, we're showing
the way with things like AlphaFold and isomorphic. I think we could cure most
diseases within the next decade or two if AI drug design works. And then they could be
personalized medicines where it minimizes the side
effects on the individual because it's mapped
to the person's individual illness, and
their individual metabolism, and so on. So these are amazing things-- clean energy, renewable
energy sources, fusion, or better solar power,
all of these types of things. I think they're
all within reach. And then that would
sort out water access because you could do
desalination everywhere. So I just feel like
an enormous good is going to come from
these technologies, but we have to mitigate
the risks, too. HANNAH FRY: And one
way that you said that you would want
to mitigate the risks was that there would be a
moment where you would basically do the scientific version
of Avengers assemble. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, sure. HANNAH FRY: Terence Tao,
get him on the phone. DEMIS HASSABIS: Exactly. HANNAH FRY: Bring him on down. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah, exactly. HANNAH FRY: Is that
still your plan? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah,
well, I think so. I think if we can get the
international cooperation, I'd love there to be a
international CERN, basically, for AI. Where you get the top
researchers in the world, and you go, look, let's focus on
the final few years of this AGI project, and get
it really right, and do it scientifically,
and carefully, and thoughtfully at every step-- the final steps. I still think that
would be the best way. HANNAH FRY: How do you know when
is the time to press the button? DEMIS HASSABIS: Well,
that's the big question. Because you can't do it
too early because you would never be able to
get the buy-in to do that. A lot of people would disagree. I mean, today people
disagree with the risks. You see very famous people
saying there's no risks, and then you have people
like Jeff Hinton saying there's lots of risks. And I'm in the middle of that. HANNAH FRY: I want
to talk to you a bit more about neuroscience. How much does it still
inspire what you're doing? Because I noticed the other
day that DeepMind had unveiled this computerized rat
with an artificial brain that helps to change
our understanding of how the brain controls movement. But in the first
season of the podcast, I remember we talked
a lot about how DeepMind takes
direct inspiration from biological systems. Is that still the
core of your approach? DEMIS HASSABIS: No,
it's evolved now because I think we've
got to a stage now. In the last, I would
say, two to three years, we've gone more into
an engineering phase-- large scale systems, massive
training architectures. So I would say that the
influence of neuroscience on that is a little bit less. It may come back in. So any time where you
need more invention, then you want to get as
many sources as possible. And neuroscience would be one
of those sources of ideas. But when it's more
engineering heavy, then I think that takes a
little bit more of a backseat. So it may be more applying
AI to neuroscience now like you saw with the
virtual rat brain. And I think we'll see that
as we get closer to AGI using that to
understand the brain. I think it would be
one of the coolest use cases for AGI and science. HANNAH FRY: I guess
this stuff goes through phases of the
engineering challenge, the intervention challenge. DEMIS HASSABIS: So it's
done its part for now, and it's been great. And we still obviously
keep a close track of it and take any other ideas, too. HANNAH FRY: OK. All of the pictures of the
future that you've painted are still anchored
quite in reality. But I know that you've
said that you really want AGI to be able to peer into
the mysteries of the universe down at the Planck scale. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes! HANNAH FRY: Like
subatomic, quantum worlds. Do you think that there are
things that we have not even yet conceived of that might
end up being possible? I'm talking wormholes here. DEMIS HASSABIS: Completely, yes. I'd love wormholes
to be possible. I think there is a lot of
probably misunderstanding, I would say, still things we
don't understand about physics and the nature of reality. And obviously, the quantum
mechanics, and unifying that with gravity, and
all of these things, and there's all these problems
with the standard model. So I think there's-- and string theory, I
mean, I just think-- HANNAH FRY: There's giant
gaping holes in physics. DEMIS HASSABIS: Yes, in
physics, all over the place. And I talk to my physics
friends about this, and there's a lot of things
that don't fit together. I don't really like the
multiverse explanation. So I think that it would
be great to come up with new theories and then test
those on massive apparatus, perhaps out in space,
at these tiny-- the reason I'm obsessed
with Planck scale things-- Planck time, Planck space-- is because that seems to be the
resolution of reality in a way. That's the smallest quanta
you can break anything into. So that feels like
the level you want to experiment on if you had
powerful apparatus perhaps designed or enabled by having
AGI and radical abundance. You would need both to be
able to afford to build those types of experiments. HANNAH FRY: The
resolution of reality. What a phrase. What, so as in the resolution
that we're at the moment? Human level is just an
approximation of reality. DEMIS HASSABIS:
Yes, that's right. And then we know there's
the atomic level, and below that is the Planck
level, which as far as we know is the smallest resolution one
can even talk about things. And so that, to me,
would be the resolution one wants to experiment
on to really understand what's going on here. HANNAH FRY: I wonder
whether you're also envisaging that there
will be things that are beyond the limits
of human understanding AGI will help us to uncover-- that actually, we're just not
really capable of understanding. And then I wonder if
things are unexplainable or ununderstandable, are
they still falsifiable? DEMIS HASSABIS: Yeah
well, look, I mean, these are great questions. I think there will be a
potential for an AGI system to understand higher level
abstractions than we can. So again, going back
to neuroscience, we know that it's your
prefrontal cortex that does that. And there's up to about six or
seven layers of indirection one could take. This person's
thinking this, and I'm thinking this about that person
thinking this, and so on. And then we lose track. But I think an AI system could
have an arbitrarily large prefrontal cortex effectively. So you could imagine
higher levels of abstraction and
patterns that it will be able to see
about the universe that we can't really comprehend
or hold in mind at once. And then I think in terms of
explainability point of view, the way I think
that is a little bit different to other philosophers
who've thought about this, which is we'll be closer to an ant and
then the AGI, in terms of IQ. But I don't think that's
the way to think of it. I think it's we are
Turing complete, so we're a full general
intelligence as ourselves, albeit a bit slow because
we run on slow machinery. And we can't infinitely
expand our own brains. But we can, in theory, given
enough time and memory, understand anything
that's computable. And so I think it will be more
like Garry Kasparov or Magnus Carlsen playing an
amazing chess move. I couldn't have come up with it,
but they can explain it to me why it's a good move. So I think that's what an AGI
system will be able to do. HANNAH FRY: You said that
DeepMind was a 20-year project. How far through are we? Are you on track? DEMIS HASSABIS: I think we're
on track, yeah, crazily. Because usually 20-year
projects stay 20 years away. But yeah, we're a good way
in now, and I think we're-- HANNAH FRY: 20 years
is 2030 for AGI. DEMIS HASSABIS: 2030, yeah. So I think the way I say
is I wouldn't be surprised if it comes in the next decade. So I think we're on track. HANNAH FRY: That matches
what you said last time. You haven't updated your priors. [LAUGHTER] DEMIS HASSABIS: Exactly HANNAH FRY: Amazing. Demis, thank you so much. Absolute delight. Absolute delight, as always. DEMIS HASSABIS: Very fun to
talk, as always, as well. Thank you. HANNAH FRY: OK, I think there
are a few really important things that came out of that
conversation, especially when you compare it to what
Demis was saying last time we spoke to him in 2022. Because there have definitely
been a few surprises in the last couple of years. The way that these
models have demonstrated a genuine conceptual
understanding is one-- this real world grounding
that came in from language and human feedback alone. We did not think
that would be enough. And then how interesting
and useful, imperfect AI has been to the everyday person. Demis himself there
admitted that he had not seen that one coming. And that makes me wonder
about the other challenges that we don't yet
know how to solve like long-term planning, and
agency, and robust, unbreakable safeguards. How many of those-- which we're going to cover
in detail in this podcast, by the way-- are we going to come back
to in a couple of years and realize that they were
easier than we thought? And how many of them
are going to be harder? And then as for
the big predictions that Demis made, like cures for
most diseases in 10 or 20 years, or AGI by the end of
the decade, or how we're about to enter
into an era of abundance, I mean, they all sound like
Demis is being a bit overly optimistic, doesn't it? But then again, he hasn't
exactly been wrong so far. You've been listening to "Google
DeepMind, the Podcast" with me, Professor Hannah Fry. If you have enjoyed this
episode, hey, why not subscribe? We've got plenty more
fascinating conversations with the people at
the cutting edge of AI coming up on topics ranging
from how AI is accelerating the pace of
scientific discoveries to addressing some
of the biggest risks of this technology. If you have any feedback, or you
want to suggest a future guest, then do leave us a
comment on YouTube. Until next time. [MUSIC PLAYING]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: 79LjT-9lOAk (https://youtu.be/79LjT-9lOAk) ===


if you think about it human intelligence has created all of modern civilization in a way that shows the power of intelligence and how broad it can be used [Music] our mission is solving intelligence to advance science and benefit humanity we are embarking on what will turn out to be the greatest adventure in human scientific history when we started deep mind we looked at machine learning and neuroscience and there was a good chance that this was going to open up the possibility for full artificial general intelligence we need a system which can do any cognitive tasks that a person can do and it can scale potentially far beyond that we're bridging that gap between simulation and reality the types of accomplishments we've had are what most companies would dream of over a company life cycle the thesis was to use games and simulations as a perfect proving ground for developing ai deep mind put its computer program to the test against one of the brightest minds in the world and one the real purpose of working on games for us was always one step on the way to making more general systems there's so much we don't know but how do we start thinking about the downstream impact of our research by doing vigorous research in ethics we actually have an opportunity to rethink and say what could ai do for society in a positive way the more people who are using these algorithms in ai the greater the impact we're going to have on trying to stop climate change we've already used them in many domains for example controlling plasma infusion reactors and accurately predicting weather patterns it's 48 degrees and clear in london or generating realistic sounding voice for google assistant with our wavenet system hi how are you our biggest scientific breakthrough today has been protein folding with alpha fog we used ai to solve a 50 year old grand challenge in biology which then enabled us to release the structure of all human proteins to build artificial intelligence we need creative thinkers that can come up with something that nobody has thought of yet if we can find those moments of inspiration and apply them to problems that are important to humankind that would be transformative moment for society the work here is hard but it will all be worth it if we manage to make a positive impact our mission is to understand as much of the world as we can if we solve intelligence ai i think it's the most fantastic possible tool you could have to help with that mission we want to do the next big thing and that means trying something that a lot of people think is too hard and we're just gonna have a go at it [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: QkYUGgnRbbE (https://youtu.be/QkYUGgnRbbE) ===


so yeah and Freddie sent the email to deepmind and on Monday morning I came into work you know opened my emails and suddenly saw this email from Catherine at deepmind and sure enough there was these beautiful three-dimensional structures of every single sequence I'd sent to Catherine and it was just incredible [Music] it's how we deal with it at its end of life and we're really bad at that so we really need Solutions here we take enzymes from the natural environment we bring them into our Laboratories here and then we try and evolve them to do different jobs and the one that we're really focusing on at the moment is enzymes that can digest polluting Plastics so we're in the biorecycling laboratory so we've taken the enzymes that we've made next door we've brought them into this laboratory and this equipment here allows us to add the plastic fragments to the enzyme and we're breaking them down and recycling them right here in real time enzymatic breakdown of plastics is really low energy it's really environmentally friendly and it allows us to recover those building blocks and infinitely use them over again and that means we can stop relying on fossil resources and reduce plastic pollution the work that we do it's really essential to understand the protein structure because the version of an enzyme is so tightly linked to its structure so when we know the structure we can look for more enzymes that maybe have those shared characteristics so the Holy Grail of protein structure determination has been able to take the 20 amino acid letter code put it into a program and get the 3D structure back this is where Alpha fog comes in because that's exactly what it does and it does it really quickly previously it took us months years sometimes impossible to actually get a structure both Alpha fold now we can do it in literally minutes so instead of doing one protein at a time we can now do hundreds or even thousands at a time entire phds were made on solving a single protein structure and now it can be done in minutes everybody's reaction around the lab and especially mine I think we were all really shocked we are studying to be these structural biologists and fixate our careers on these protein structures and now compute program can do that you know scary at first but actually the fact that we can work almost collaboratively with this software it will actually further our science it took us quite a long time to go through this massive database of structures but opened this whole array of new three-dimensional shapes we'd never seen before that could actually break down plastic there's a complete Paradigm Shift we can really accelerate where we go from here and that really helps us direct these precious resources to the stuff that matters and ultimately reduce plastic pollution [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: 70E7Q_g-eiU (https://youtu.be/70E7Q_g-eiU) ===


scientists build on the shoulders of giants in fact those shoulders most often are data [Music] she has completely changed in the last 20 years and the big change has been that we can generate massive amounts of data Alpha Ford is an AI system developed by deepmind and what it can do is take a protein amino acid sequence and it can create these very accurate 3D models of that protein when one of the predictions it can generate millions of protein structures it's like having a different microscope [Music] molecules of life when we launched Alpha for DB last July it was 365 000 protein predictions and then it grew to about 1 million and now it's two orders of magnitude more emblem ebi the home in your molecular data and so it was a very natural joining up with deepmind to take their predicted models and make them available for everybody so one of the challenges with the data that we have from from this collaboration is is the size of the data sets and because of that we had to get creative in in the infrastructure and especially how it will scale and databases are a little bit like plants they need pruning they need regenerating they need fertilizing in some way we are taking advantage of the Google Cloud infrastructure we had to make sure that we really have something that cares well that can continue to grow having all these millions of structures will change the face of biology again it's disrupting both the fields of structural biologists but it's also empowering them to solve structures that they couldn't before [Music] medicine and [Music] I just get your favorite protein and look at it instantly I mean it's just fantastic [Music] foreign [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: b6e8CCPp2Kc (https://youtu.be/b6e8CCPp2Kc) ===


you think about it human intelligence has created all of modern civilization in a way that shows the power of intelligence and how broad it can be [Music] used our mission is solving intelligence to advance science and benefit Humanity real research means doing the unknown we tried to create this unique environment that is geared completely towards using artificial intelligence for fast-paced Innovation all right everyone welcome to Deep Mind we are embarking on what will turn out to be the greatest Adventure in human scientific history when we started deep mind we looked at machine learning in neuroscience and there was a good chance that this was going to open up the possibility for full artificial general intelligence our goal is to have an algorithm that can do everything end to end by itself we're going to be pushing the balance in ways that we don't even know as we're doing the research and the development of AGI we need a system which can do any cognitive task that a person can do and it can scale potentially far beyond that we're bridging that gap between simulation and reality you want to find a thing that's dramatically different to anything you've ever seen before the types of accomplishments we've had are what most companies would dream of over a company life cycle we've got five more offices so we are truly International now people think what's going on ad there's some kind of magic going on I really feel like this is Wily Wonka's Chocolate Factory the thesis was to use games and simulations as a perfect Proving Ground for developing AI we started working on agents that are learning to play Atari games and they actually learn more complex behaviors really quickly we're going up the games ladder and actually tackling more complex challenges Deep Mind put its computer program to the test against one of the brightest Minds in the world and [Applause] one star is just playing so smartly that is that the real purpose of working on games for us was always one step on the way to making more General systems there's so much we don't know but how do we start thinking about the downstream impact of our research how do we Pioneer responsibly as an organization we take that job extremely seriously by doing rigorous research in ethics we actually have an opportunity to rethink and say what could AI do for society in a positive way these are metrics from the Renewables project the more people who are using these algorithms in AI the greater the impact we're going to have on trying to stop climate change we've already used them in many domains for example controlling plasma and fusion reactors and accurately predicting weather patterns it's 48° and clear in London or generating realistic sounding voice for Google Assistant with our wet system Hi how are you with the research that we do the exploration aspect is very important because we are attacking some of the hardest problems in the world our biggest scientific breakthrough today has been protein folding with Alpha fold we used AI to solve a 50-year-old Grand Challenge in biology which then enabled us to release the structure of all human proteins the implications are immense from better understanding how diseases progress how you can discover new drugs it's endless the best inventions in the future are going to come from disciplines being combined so what that requires then is more Renaissance likee thinking to build artificial intelligence we need creative thinkers that can come up with something that nobody has thought of yet I think if you ask D Vinci you know he wouldn't recognize the difference between Art and Science and there's a real joy in that I think and if we can find those moments of inspiration and apply them to problems that are important to human kind that would be transformative moment for society I just think this is the most important piece of information that we don't have great experiments tell you something important whether they work or whether they don't work the more you fail the more you are going to learn I encourage people to fail as as possible if it's systematically wrong you might be learning that systematically wrong physics the work here is hard but it will all be worth it if we manage to make a positive impact if we do achieve this this has incredible medical relevance everything we do here is a celebration of the mind and knowledge we're not trying to build a brain we're just trying to take inspiration from the brain where we can get it what is consciousness what is dreaming for what is creativity those kinds of questions I think we're going to be able to try and answer if we've learned one thing is that we're very bad judges of The Impossible our mission is to understand as much of the world as we can if we solve intelligence AI I think it's the most fantastic possible tool you could have to help with that mission we want to do the next big thing and that means trying something that a lot of people think is too hard and we're just going to have a go at it [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: GdeY-MrXD74 (https://youtu.be/GdeY-MrXD74) ===


welcome back to the final episode in this season of the deep mind podcast and boy have we covered a lot of ground from protein folding ais to sarcastic language models sauntering robots synthetic voices and much more it has been quite the journey but we do have one more treat in store for you a chance to hear from deepmind ceo and co-founder demis hasabis the outcome i've always dreamed of is agi has helped us solve a lot of the big challenges facing society today be that health creating a new energy source so that's what i see as happening is a sort of amazing flourishing to the next level of humanity's potential with this very powerful technology this was my opportunity to ask demis all the things that have popped into my head during the making of the series well most things we'll see how far i can push it as luck would have it the day i sat down with demis coincided with the opening of deepmind's sparkling new premises in london's king's cross there weren't many people about yet so it felt like an exclusive preview i feel like i'm in a high-end furniture catalogue let me set the scene for you this new building is rather beautifully appointed it's got a double helix staircase running through the middle there are fiddle leaf trees in practically every corner and there are stylish fluted glass critter doors between offices and yes those meeting rooms christened after great scientists galileo ada lovelace leonardo they are all still a [Music] at feature sparkling push the boat out while sipping on my beverage of choice some memorabilia outside demise's office caught my eye a nod to alphago's famous victory over lisa dole in the game go there is sitting underneath two extremely fancy black spotlights a chessboard in a black frame and if i go over to it there's a picture of gary kasparov the legendary chess player who was beaten by deep blue the ibm computer he signed the chessboard and it says for the alphago team keep conquering new heights i mean just a chessboard designed by kasparov on the wall perfectly standard oh awesome oh we're going in hi great to see you after settling down inside demise's office i started by asking him about deepmind's long-term vision of building agi or artificial general intelligence it's an ambition that has been baked into deep mind's dna from the very beginning i think it's fair to say that there's some people in the field who don't think that agi is possible they sort of say that it's a distraction from the actual work of building practical ai systems what makes you so sure that this is something that's possible i think it comes down to the definition of agi so if we define it as a system that's able to do a wide variety of cognitive tasks to a human level that must be possible i think because the existence proof is the human brain and unless you think there's something non-computable in the brain which so far there's no evidence for then it should be possible to mimic those functions on effectively a turing machine a computer and then the second part of that which is it's a distraction from building practical systems well i mean that may be true in the sense of what you're mostly interested is in the practical systems agi itself is a big research goal and a long term one it's not going to happen anytime soon but our view is that if you try and shoot for the stars so to speak then any technologies that you sort of build on the way can be broken off in components and then applied to amazing things and so we think striving for the long-term ambitious research goal is the best way to create technologies that you can apply right now how will you recognize agi when you see it will you know it when you see it what i imagine is going to happen is some of these ai systems will start being able to use language and i mean they already are but better maybe you'll start collaborating with them say scientifically and i think more and more as you put them to use at different tasks slowly that portfolio will grow and then eventually we could end up it's controlling a fusion power station and eventually i think one system or one set of ideas and algorithms will be able to scale across those tasks and everything in between and then once that starts being built out there will be of course philosophical arguments about is that covering all the space of what humans can do and i think in some respects it will definitely be beyond what humans are able to do which will be exciting as long as that's done in the right way and you know there'll be cognitive scientists that will look into does it have all the cognitive capabilities we think humans have creativity what about emotion imagination memory and then there'll be the subjective feeling that these things are getting smarter but i think that's partly why this is the most exciting journey in my opinion that humans have ever embarked on which is i'm sure that trying to build agi with a sort of neuroscience inspiration is going to tell us a lot about ourselves and the human mind the way you're describing it there is though this big goal in the future that you steadily approach i'm wondering whether in your mind there's also like a day where this happens like you know how children dream of lifting the world cup have you thought about the day when you walk off walk away from the office and you're like it happened today yeah i'd have dreamed about that for a very long time i think it would be more romantic in some sense if that happened where you you know one day you're coming in and then this lump of code is just executing then the next day you come in and it sort of feels sentient to you be quite amazing from what we've seen so far it will probably be more incremental and then a threshold will be crossed but i suspect it will start feeling interesting and strange in this middle zone as we start approaching that we're not there yet i don't think none of the systems that we interact with or built have that feeling of sentience or awareness any of those things they're just kind of programs that execute albeit they learn but i could imagine that one day that could happen you know there's a few things i look out for like perhaps coming up with a truly original idea creating something new a new theory in science that ends up holding maybe coming up with its own problem that it wants to solve these kinds of things would be sort of activities that i'd be looking for on the way to maybe that big day if you're a betting man then when do you think that will be so i think that the progress so far has been pretty phenomenal i think that it's coming relatively soon in the next you know i wouldn't be super surprised the next decade or two shane said that he writes down predictions and his confidence on them and then checks back to see how well he did in the past do you do the same thing i don't do that no i um i'm not as methodical as shane so and he hasn't shown me his recent predictions i don't know where they were secretly putting them down i have to ask him it's just a draw in his hand yes exactly [Music] like shane legg deepmind's co-founder and chief scientist who we heard from in an earlier episode demis believes that there are certain abilities that humans have but are missing from current ai systems today's learning systems are really good at learning in messy situations so dealing with vision or intuition in go so pattern recognition they're amazing for that but we haven't yet got them satisfactorily back up to be able to use symbolic knowledge so doing mathematics or language even we have some of course language models but they don't have a deep understanding yet still of concepts that underlie language and so they can't generalize or write a novel or make something new how do you test whether say a language model has a conceptual understanding of what it's coming out with that's a hard question and something that we're all wrestling with still so we have our own large language model just like most teams in these days and it's fascinating probing it you know at three in the morning that's one of my favorite things to do is just have a have a little chat with the uh with the ai system uh sometimes but i'm generally trying to break it to see exactly this like does it really understand what you're talking about one of the things that suspected they don't understand properly is quite basic real world situations that rely on maybe experiencing physics or acting in the world because obviously these are passive language models right they just learn from reading the internet so you can say sort of things like alice threw the ball to bob ball through back to alice alice throws it over the wall bob goes and gets it who's got the ball and you know obviously in that case it's bob but it can get quite confused sometimes it'll say alice or so it'll say something random so it's those types of you know almost like a kid would understand that and it's interesting are there basic things like that that it can't get about the real world because it's all it sort of only knows it from words but it's a that in itself is a fascinating philosophical question i think what we're doing is philosophy actually in the greatest tradition of that trying to understand philosophy of mind philosophy of science when it's 3am and you're talking to a language model do you ever ask if it's an agi yeah i think i must have done that yes with varying answers but it has responded yes at some point yeah it does sometimes respond yes and you know i'm an artificial system and it knows what agi is to some level i don't think it really knows anything to be honest that would be my conclusion it knows some words no words a clever parent yes exactly for the moment at least ai systems like language models show no signs of understanding the world but could they ever go beyond this in future do you think that consciousness could emerge as a sort of natural consequence of a particular architecture or do you think that it's something that has to be intentionally created i'm not sure i suspect that intelligence and consciousness are what's called double dissociable you can have one without the other both ways my argument for that would be that if you have a pet dog for example i think they're quite clearly have some consciousness you know they seem to dream they're sort of self-aware of what they want to do but they're not you know dogs are smart but they're not that smart right and so it's my dog isn't anyway but on the other hand if you look at intelligent systems the current ones we built okay they're quite narrow but they are very good at say games i could easily imagine carrying on with building those types of alpha zero systems and they get more general more and more powerful but they just feel like programs so that's one path and then the other path is that it turns out consciousness is integral with intelligence so in least in biological systems they seem to both increase together so it suggests that maybe there's a correlation it could be that it's causative so it turns out if you have these general intelligence systems they automatically have to have a model of their own conscious experience personally i don't see why that's necessary so i think by building ai and deconstructing it we might actually be able to triangulate and pin down what the essence of consciousness is and then we would have the decision of do we want to build that in or not my personal opinion is at least in the first stages we shouldn't if we have the choice because i think that brings in a lot of other complex ethical issues tell me about some of those well i mean i think if an ai system was conscious and you believed it was then you'd have to consider what rights it might have and then the other issue as well is that conscious systems or beings have generally come with free will and wanting to set their own goals and i think um you know there's some safety questions about that as well and so i think it would fit into a pattern that we're much more used to with our machines around us to view ai as a kind of tool or if it's language based the kind of oracle it's like the world's best encyclopedia right you ask a question and it has like you know all research to hand but not necessarily an opinion or a goal to do with that information right its goal would be to give that information in the most convenient way possible to the human interactor wikipedia doesn't have a theory of mind and maybe it's best to keep maybe it's best to keep it like that exactly okay how about a moral compass then can you impart a moral compass into ai and should you i mean i'm not sure i would call it a moral compass but definitely it's going to need a value system because whatever goal you give it you're effectively incentivizing that ai system to do something and so as that becomes more more general you can sort of think about that as almost a value system what do you want it to do in its set of actions what you do want to sort of disallow how should it think about side effects versus its main goal what's its top level goal if it's to keep humans happy which set of humans what does happiness mean we can definitely need for help from philosophers and sociologists and others about defining and psychologists probably you know defining what a lot of these terms mean and of course a lot of them are very tricky for humans to figure out our collective goals what do you see as the best possible outcome of having agi the outcome i've always dreamed of or imagined is agi has helped us solve a lot of the big challenges facing society today be that health cures for diseases like alzheimer's i would also imagine agi helping with climate creating a new energy source that is renewable and then what would happen after those kinds of first stage things is you kind of have this sometimes people describe it as radical abundance if we're talking about radical abundance of i don't know water and food and energy how does ai help to create that so it helps to create that by unlocking key technological breakthroughs let's take energy for example we are looking for as a species renewable cheap ideally free non-polluting energy and to me there's at least a couple of ways of doing that one would be to make fusion work much better than nuclear fission it's much safer that's obviously the way the sun works we're already working on one of the challenges for that which is containing the plasma in a fusion reactor and we already have the state-of-the-art way of doing that sort of unbelievably the other way is to make solar power work much better if we had solar panels just tiling something you know half the size of texas that would be enough to power the whole world's uses of energy so it's just not efficient enough right now but if you had superconductors you know room temperature superconductor which is obviously the the holy grail in that area if that was possible suddenly that would make that much more viable and i could imagine ai helping with material science that's a big combinatorial problem huge search space all the different compounds you can combine together which one's the best and of course edison sort of did that by hand when he found tungsten for light bulbs but imagine doing that at enormous scale or much harder problems than a light bulb that's kind of the sorts of things i'm thinking an ai could be used for i think you probably know what i'm going to ask you next because if that is the fully optimistic utopian view of the future it can't all be positive when you're lying awake at night what are the things that you worry about well to be honest with you i do think that is a very plausible end state the optimistic one i painted you and of course that's what i reason i work on ai's because i hoped it would be like that on the other hand one of the biggest worries i have is what humans are going to do with ai technologies on the way to agi like most technologies they could be used for good or bad and i think that's down to us as a society and governments to decide which direction they're going to go in do you think society is ready for agi i don't think yet i think that's part of what this podcast series is about as well is to give the general public a more of an understanding of what agi is what ai is and what's coming down the road and then we can start grappling with as a society and not just the technologists what we want to be doing with these systems you said you've got this sort of 20-year prediction and then simultaneously where society is in terms of understanding and grappling with these ideas do you think that deep mind has a responsibility to hit pause at any point potentially i always imagine that as we got closer to the sort of gray zone that you were talking about earlier the best thing to do might be to pause the pushing of the performance of these systems so that you can analyze down to my new detail exactly and maybe even prove things mathematically about the system so that you know the limits and otherwise of the systems that you're building at that point i think all the world's greatest minds should probably be thinking about this problem so that was what i would be advocating to you know the terence towers of this world the best mathematicians is actually if i've even talked to him about this i know you're working on the riemann hypothesis or something which is the best thing in mathematics but actually this is more pressing i have this sort of idea of like almost uh avengers assembled of the scientific world because that's a bit of like my dream deterrence tower agree to be one of your avengers i don't i didn't quite tell him the full plan of that i know that some quite prominent scientists have spoken in quite serious terms about this path towards getting agi i'm thinking about stephen hawking do you ever have debates with those kind of people about what the future looks like yeah i actually talked to stephen hawking a couple of times i went to see him in cambridge i was supposed to be a half an hour meeting but we ended up talking for hours he wanted to understand what was going on at the coalface of ai development and i explained to him what we were doing the kinds of things we've discussed today what we're worried about and he felt much more reassured that people were thinking about this in the correct way and at the end he said i wish you the best of luck but not too much then he looked at right in my eye and twinkle in his eye like it was just amazing that was literally his last sentence today best of luck but not too much that's lovely that was perfect it is perfect along the road to adi there have already been some significant breakthroughs with particular ai systems or narrow ai as it's sometimes known not least the deepmind system known as alpha fold which we heard about in episode 1. alpha fold has been shown to accurately predict the 3d structures of proteins with implications for everything from the discovery of new drugs to pandemic preparedness i asked ms how a company known for getting computers to play games to a superhuman level was able to achieve success in some of the biggest scientific challenges in the space of just a few short years the idea was always from the beginning of deep mind to prove our general learning ideas reinforce learning deep learning combining that on games tackle the most complex games there are out there so go and starcraft in terms of computer games and board games and then the hope was we could then start tackling real world problems especially in science which is my other huge passion and at least my personal reason for working on ai was to use ai as the ultimate tool really to accelerate scientific discovery in almost any field because if it's a general tool then it should be applicable to many many fields of science and i think alpha fold which is our program for protein folding is our first massive example of that and i think it's woken up the scientific world to the possibility of what ai could do what impact do you hope that our fold will have i hope alpha fold is the beginning of a new era in biology where computational and ai methods are used to help model all aspects of biological systems and therefore accelerate our discovery process in biology so i'm hoping that it'll have a huge effect on drug discovery but also fundamental biology understanding what these proteins do in your body and i think that if you look at machine learning it's the perfect description language for biology in the same way that maths was the perfect description language for physics and many people obviously in the last 50 years have tried to apply mathematics to biology with some success but i think it's too complex for mathematicians to describe in a few equations but i think it's the perfect regime for machine learning to spot patterns machine learning is really good at taking weak signals messy signals and making sense of them which is i think the regime that we're in with biology how could ai be used for a future pandemic so one of the things actually we're looking for now is the top 20 pathogens that biologists are identifying could cause the next pandemic to fold all the proteins which mean you know it's feasible involved in all those viruses so that drug discovery and farmer can have a head start at figuring out what drugs or antidotes or antivirals would they make to combat those if those viruses ended up mutating slightly and becoming the next pandemic i think in the next few years we'll also have automated drug discovery processes as well so we won't just be giving the structure of the protein we might even be able to propose what sort of compound might be needed so i think there's a lot of things ai can potentially do and then on the other side of things maybe on the analysis side to track trends and predict how spreading might happen given how significant the advances are for science that are being created by these ai systems do you think that there will ever be a day where an ai wins a nobel prize i would say that just like any tool it's the human ingenuity that's gone into it you know it's sort of like saying who should we credit spotting jupiter's moons is it his telescope no i think it's galileo and of course he also built the telescope right famously as well as it was his eye that saw it and then he wrote it up so i think it's a nice sort of science fiction story to say well the ai should win it but at least until we get to full agi if it's sentient it's picked the problem itself it's come up with a hypothesis and then it solved it that's a little bit different but for now where it's just a fairly automated tool effectively i think the credit should go probably to the humans i don't know quite like the idea of giving nobels to inanimate objects like larger hadron collider can have one exactly regression telescope can have one exactly i just quite like that idea even before agi has been created it's clear that ai systems like averfold are already having a significant impact on real world problems but for all their positives there are also some tricky ethical questions surrounding the deployment of ai which we've been exploring throughout this series things like the impact of ai on the environment and the problem of biased ai systems being used to help make decisions on things like access to healthcare or eligibility for parole what's your view on ai being used in those situations i just think we have to be very careful that the hype doesn't get ahead of itself there are a lot of people think ai can just do anything already and actually if they understood ai properly they'd know that the technology is not ready and one big category of those things is very nuanced human judgment about human behavior so parole board hearing would be a good example of that there's no way ai's ready yet to kind of model the balance of factors that experience say parole board member is balancing up across society how do you quantify those things mathematically or in data and then if you add in a further thing which is how critical that decision is either way then all those things combined mean to me that it's not something that ai should be used for certainly not to make the decision at the level ais at the moment i think it's fine to use it as an analysis tool to triage like a medical image but the doctor needs to make the decision in our episode on language models we talk about some of the more concerning potential uses of them is there anything that deep mind can do to really prevent some of those nefarious purposes of language models like spreading misinformation we're doing a bunch of research ourselves on you know the issues with language models i think there's a long way to go like in terms of building analysis tools to interpret what these systems are doing and why they're doing it i think this is a question of understanding why are they putting this output out and then how can you fix those issues like biases fairness and what's the right way to do that of course you want truth at the heart of it but then there are subjective things where people from different say political persuasions have a different view about something what are you going to say is the truth at that point so then it sort of impinges on like well what does society think about that and then which society are you talking about and these are really complex questions and because of that this is an area i think that we should be proceeding with caution in terms of deploying these systems in products and things how do you mitigate the impact that ai is having on the environment is there just a danger of building larger and larger and larger energy-hungry systems and having a negative impact yeah i mean we have to consider this i think that ai systems are using a tiny sliver of the world's energy usage even the big models compared to watching videos online all of these things are using way more computers and bandwidth second thing is that actually most of the big data centers now especially things like google are pretty much 100 carbon neutral but we should continue that trend to become fully green data centers and then of course you have to look at the benefits of what you're trying to build so let's say a healthcare system or something like that relative to energy usage most ai models are hugely net positive and then the final thing is we've proven is that actually building the ai models can then be used you know to optimize the energy systems itself so for example one of the best applications we've had of our ai systems is to control the cooling in data centers and save like 30 of the energy they use you know that saving is way more than we've ever used for all of our ai models put together probably so it's an important thing to bear in mind to make sure it doesn't get out of hand but i think right now i think that particular worries are sort of slightly over hyped while demis and his colleagues at deepmind are thinking hard about what could go wrong when ai is deployed in the real world what really shone through during our conversation was demus's faith in the idea that ultimately building ai and agi will be a net positive for the whole of society if you look at the challenges that confront humanity today climate sustainability inequality the natural world all of these things are in my view getting worse and worse and there's going to be new ones coming soon down the line like access to water and so on which i think are going to be really major issues in the next 50 years and if there wasn't something like ai coming down the road i would be extremely worried for our ability to actually solve these problems but i'm optimistic we are going to solve those things because i think ai is coming and i think it will be the best tool that we've ever created in some ways it's hard not to be drawn in by demise's optimism to be enthused by the tantalizing picture he paints of the future and it's becoming clearer that there are serious benefits to be had as this technology matures but as research swells behind that single north star of agi it's also evident that this progress comes with its own serious risks too there are technical challenges that need resolving but ethical and social challenges too that can't be ignored and much of that can't be resolved by ai companies alone they require a broader societal conversation one which i hope at least in some small way is fueled by this podcast but i'm struck most of all by how far the field has come in such a short space of time at the end of the last season we were talking enthusiastically about ai playing atari games and go and chess and now all of a sudden as these ideas have found their feet we can reasonably look forward to ai making a difference in drug discovery and nuclear fusion and understanding the genome and i do wonder what new discoveries might await when we meet again [Music] deepmind the podcast has been a whistle-down production the series producer is dan hardoon with production support from jill ateneku the editor is david prest sound design is by emma barnaby and nigel appleton is the sound engineer the original music for this series was specially composed by elainey shaw and what wonderful music it was i'm professor hannah fry thank you for listening you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: XtJVLOe4cfs (https://youtu.be/XtJVLOe4cfs) ===


hello well welcome everybody it's almost normal almost but when i look around the room and see all these masks isn't quite normal but this is the start of normality so let's celebrate it and we've got a great start with demis hacibus who um all of you will have heard the name and i'm going to put a little bit of color to the name because he has got rather a colorful cv sorry dennis all right um and it is sort of interesting it started at age 13 when he became a master at chess i also play a little bit of chess but i've never actually asked for a chess game with demis i wonder why but i know why did his ans levels got an entrance into cambridge at 1516 but um they thought he should grow up a bit more before going and he joined a gaming company um and and designed a game syndicate yes isn't that right yes and um and that sort of stayed with him as you'll see in a bit later did computer science um got a first at cambridge thought he said it he said famously said it was like being in a holiday camp at cambridge and then um worked worked in another gaming company and set up elixir studios where he worked for a number of years before going to do and listen to this a phd in neuroscience in ucl in cognitive neuroscience writing a um paper on neuroscience of imagination which did extremely um well somewhat later not very much later founded deepmind which all of you will be um familiar with bought by uh google um after uh um some years actually and um that resulted and i think you will say a bit about it demis went to to alpha go which could um beat the beat the chess world champion and then turned himself to something serious okay and that was solving the age-old problem that we've known about for many years from the birth of molecular biology and i remember it being stated of how you go from primary sequence through of course the simple problem into the primary amino acid sequence from dna how can you determine how proteins fold up use ai particularly machine learning to actually um solve that problem which he will talk about mainly today now all of this achievement and that is an extraordinary achievement which i won't say too much about um led to a lot of accolades he's a fellow of the um academy of engineering a fellow of the royal science society um and um advises government including on um sage now if this all sounds as if he's a bit of an overachieving nerd i mean which is certainly true he is also normal he loves football and believe it or not it's a fun of liverpool football club [Music] okay so using ai to you know find out something okay which which he will tell you which he will tell you about but i want to just say a few words about this because um i feel really um strongly about this we try and understand life usually we call it the mechanistic basis in terms of primarily chemistry and of course also physics i mean that is um you know the mechanistic reduction approach that we i generally use but for me that mechanistic explanation critical as it is only makes sense at the biological level when it's embedded in understanding how information is being managed in that complex chemical system and i go further than that i would actually say as well as thinking of life as a chemical and a physical activity uh science activity it is also an informational science now that doesn't just apply to the obvious example of moving um from dna as encoding information critical and central as that was and of course we named the institute qrik after after that but also so we associate that particularly with watson and crick but also work um from jacob mono that looked at control systems um primarily in bacteria in the 50s and 60s and continuing of course looking at the complexity of information management which makes up life and for me the future will be built on the combination of understanding the chemistry and physics of life coupled with understanding the information management within life and what we've seen up until now and dennis will talk about is how machine learning can help understand how living things how to interpret living things but i also think artificial intelligence thinking more generally and apply beyond the machine learning will actually lead to greater understanding of how life works a somewhat different objective coupled with physics and chemistry the reality is i don't think i know how that will work i don't think demis knows how that will work but i am sure it will work and it will be central so with that i'm going to hand over to demis very much thanks paul for that really uh lovely introduction and it's uh wonderful to be here it's also wonderful to be in a in a full mostly full lecture hall uh finally again after all these years so um it's a real pleasure to be at the crick it's always a pleasure to be there our offices are just around the corner i really think the king's cross area is a real hotbed for scientific discovery and intellectual discovery it's fantastic to see how it's grown in the last last decade or so and of course paul and his team have done a wonderful job of setting up this amazing institute which i think is a real jewel in the crown for uk science um and it's a real honor and pleasure to sort of be speaking on kwik's fifth uh anna anniversary with this lecture series so um as paul mentioned what i'm going to talk about is uh using ai to accelerate scientific discovery uh our course will given especially i'm at the crick i will be spending most of the lecture talking about alpha fold and its impact um and i know many of you it's really pleasing to hear you using alpha folds um and obviously there will be lots of time in the q a to discuss that i'm also going to cover a little bit about how we got there the journey to getting to alpha fold we spent 10 years working really hard on the underlying machine learning and ai algorithms that allowed us to get to the point where we were able to tackle something like protein folding so um first of all with deepmind we we founded deepmind in 2010 in london and the vision behind it was to create a kind of an apollo program effort for building what we call artificial general intelligence or agi and you may have come across this term agi and we we use it internally to distinguish the type of work we work on from sort of normal common narrow ai that you might use every day things like recommendation systems and other things um so what we're really after at deepmind is building this kind of general version of artificial intelligence and um there's not really a sort of set definition of this but the definite the working definition we use at deepmind is a system that's capable of performing a human level or above across almost all cognitive tasks and domains so that's what we mean by artificial general intelligence and you might ask why is human level uh you know why use humans as a reference point well um you know for now it's the only example of general intelligence we know of in the universe and of course it's been sufficient to create you know this amazing modern civilization that we all live in around us so that's pretty general and uh pretty amazing and so uh it would seem that if we can at least mimic those capabilities um then we would have a very useful tool so our mission statement for deepmind so we're this we think about the effort we're doing at d minor as an apollo program uh we're now over a thousand research scientists and engineers um mostly based as i said in kings cross just across the road and our mission is to solve intelligence uh to under to advance science and humanity and by solving intelligence what we mean is fundamentally understand natural intelligence and then mimic that in an artificial construct now it why is um agi important well if we could solve it um in this general way then our our vision for deepmind and why i personally work on ai for my whole career is that um one could potentially use it as a tool to apply to almost anything by its very nature now historically this you know working on ai's obviously has been going on from at least the 1950s people like alan turing mccarthy and these kinds of people started it off and um historically they've been two i would say major approaches to trying to build um artificial intelligence the classical approach one could say is expert systems um so those are systems famously like deep blue that beat gary kasparov for chess in the 90s and what you can think of is they rely on hard-coded knowledge really the engineers and the scientists designing the system they have to understand what the solution is and then they program that solution into the machine as a set of rules uh logic rules um and then the machine executes those rules um but the problem with these systems is they can't deal with the unexpected uh and they're basically limited to these pre-programmed solutions so of course they can't really solve anything new that the designers of that system the engineers of that system don't already know how to do right so that's sort of it's clearly a subset of what um the system designers must already know how to do and um you know they were born out of mathematics and inspired by logic systems and that's been mostly the tradition i would say the mainstream tradition of ai for um you know 50 the first 50 60 years now on the other hand there's a different approach which we you know one could call learning systems and the idea here is that these ai systems learn the solutions for themselves directly from first principles directly from data directly from experience and they can generalize and the emphasis on generalization to new tasks in new situations that they haven't seen before and of course the promise of these systems is that they will be able to solve things we as the designers do not know how to solve yet um so that's the potentially amazing thing about uh these types of learning systems and um you know there's a lot of where's the inspiration come for these kinds of systems neural networks reinforcement learning things i'll talk about in a minute um well a lot of that was inspired by systems neuroscience not copying the brain because obviously we don't actually understand the brain well enough to do that um but inspired by our neuroscience ideas and also validated by things we find out in neuroscience and that's why i ended up doing my phd in neuroscience even though um i was obsessively doing that to to to get inspiration for new ai ideas so um so the learning systems is of course this is how the human brain does it and and as i said the emphasis on this approach is generality and learning so what's an example of a learning system and you know there are many types of learning systems but the one that we are known for at deepmind and we specialize in specifically is reinforcement learning uh and this is the idea of learning from first principles through a sophisticated form of trial and error and uh it's pretty simple to explain and that's what i'm gonna explain with this cartoon diagram what happens is um the ai system which we usually call an agent on the left hand side here finds itself in an environment and that environment could be the real world in which case the agent's probably like a robot physical robot or it could be a virtual world in which case uh or simulation and or game in which case the agent is some kind of avatar and the agent gets information about the environment through its observations usually we use vision but you could use other modalities hearing touch and so on and based on these observations which are always noisy and incomplete one has to the agent the first task of the agent is to build a model of how the environment works right so that's the first thing now the agent's normally got a goal that it's trying to achieve in the environment that's usually the goal is usually specified by the designers of the system you know maybe it's to win a game or maximize how many points it gets and um and so the second job of the agent system is to in the time it has available to it to think it has to select the best action from its set of actions available to at that moment in time that will best get it incrementally towards its goal and it does this by using the model it has of the environment to sort of predict what will happen if it takes that action what will happen to the environment uh what's the likely new observation and is that going to help to get toward the agent towards its goal and so once the thinking time's over the agent outputs the action that gets executed um that may or may not make a change the environment and that drives a new observation so this is a dynamic system and um what this means is is the agent is an active learner right it's not just passively looking at data what the actions it takes uh uh is it partly determines what the next experience the next data that it's going to get is right so it's a kind of active learning system again much like animals and and us as humans now this cartoon diagram is obviously looks very simple uh it is simple in some senses but the complexity behind actually solving all the all the deep technical questions that arise from these systems are of course very complicated and something that's still ongoing now i'm going to talk a little bit about alphago which was um i still think probably the most famous example of a reinforcement learning system working at scale so this combines neural networks deep learning with reinforcement learning um in our program alphago that was our program to play the ancient game of go now go this is for those who don't know this is what go board looks like i definitely recommend you trying it out if you haven't if you don't know how to play it but it's an amazing absolutely incredible game the rules are incredibly simple you can place your stones there's two players black and white they place their stones on the vertices of this 19 by 19 board and the idea of the game is you're supposed to wall off empty wall off spaces of territory on the board so you're kind of building walls the other person is building walls as well and the person that has the most um territory at the end of the game wins um so this is you know being played for thousands of years uh and professionally hundreds of years in asia and it sort of occupies the intellectual echelon that chess does in the west in china and korea and in japan now why is go so hard for computers to play so after chess was sort of cracked in the mid 90s the kind of everest if you like or the holy grail for game ai was go um and they used to try to initially of course what that what the ai people tried to do researchers tried to do was use the same uh expert system uh a approach that worked for chess and they tried to use that for go but the problem is it doesn't work for go and for several reasons uh one is that the search base is just uh uh much more massive than chess so it's 10 to the 170 possible positions just to put that in context they're only about 10 to the 80 atoms in the observable universe so you know there's no way you can exhaustively sort of search through and find the solution to what you should play in go so it really resists brute force approaches which expert systems tend to use and then even more difficult is that it was thought to be impossible to write down an evaluation function so an evaluation function is the key function to tell the system whether it's winning or the opponent's winning and by how much in a specific situation and for chess this is relatively easy straightforward to do because chess is a materialistic game so a minimum you know first order approximation you just count up the pieces and what they're worth and that will tell you a little bit about who's winning obviously in go it's a lot more esoteric game and there's only one type of piece so there's it's just way harder to specify what the right rules are to evaluate a position and in fact one can see that if you interview top go players um what they'll say is they you know basically that this move felt right right they they you know there's this sort of notion of relying on their intuition rather than um calculation which chess players tend to do and so um so this you know why this is why go resisted uh ai approaches classical ai approaches for 20 years um post deep blue so we took a different approach which is that um let's let the the alphago system itself learn its own evaluation function and learn it through playing against itself hundreds of thousands of games right let's not try and uh program in what its evaluation should be let's let it learn for itself so how did we do that so this is a kind of little bit of a simplification of the whole system and actually we we after alphago there was future generations of the alphago program we since improved it to alphago zero and then alpha zero which can play any two player game to world championship standard not just go but chess japanese chess any two player game with the same single system but they all basically work in the same kind of way and this is how they work what we want to do is train a neural network that through self-play playing against itself it is able to evaluate the position correctly so this evaluation function and also pick probable moves what are the most likely moves that one should think about and think about playing in a particular position so you start off with imagine version one of this system v01 um it plays a hundred thousand games against itself to begin with it will be almost playing randomly right it doesn't know anything about go other than the rules so there's a hundred thousand games and then you have this little database basically of a hundred thousand games positions um and you know what happened at the end of the game and then what you do is you train a version two of a new network your network version two and uh on that data and you train it to do things like predict what moves were gonna be played in a particular position by the version one system and also who ended up winning the game so you can then kind of calibrate your evaluation function right so midway through the game who's winning does that tally up with who actually ended up winning the game at the end so then you you have this version two and what you do with version two is you then have a little mini tournament with version one so you play a hundred game match off and if version two beats version one by thresh some threshold amount which we set to 55 percent win rate then you you know that's the sort of statistically significant so you can be pretty sure v2 is stronger than v1 so now you replace v1 with the v2 system as the kind of master system and you now do a new hundred thousand games of v2 playing against itself and you generate a new data set of 100 000 games now of course this hundred thousand games will be slightly higher quality right so they'll be slightly better than the version one ones so you're now learning from your own self-generated data but it's a slightly higher quality data set and so then you of course just repeat this you train up a version three based on this version two data you have the match off if for some reason the new version does not beat the old version what you do is you just continue to generate another hundred thousand games with the old version and so then now you have 200 000 games to train the the next new version and eventually the new version will be the old version and it turns out after about 17 or 18 cycles of this you get to world championship level starting from random um so it's kind of amazing to see the evolution you can track it in real time it's just really kind of an amazing thing to see when you see this for the first time so what does that do more pictorially if you imagine that this sort of tree of all possibilities in a go position so this is like a gaming tree and you imagine that each of these little little graphics is a go position and um and so you know this this this tree fans out in an incredible amount very quickly and and you know there's 10 to the power 170 positions so how does one you know how can one find a good path through this enormous search pace well what happens is we use the neural network to guide the what's the we use a monte carlo tree search in this case for alphago to guide the search so it doesn't need to look only looks at a tiny fraction of all the possibilities that are you know possible from those positions it only looks at the most plausible most fruitful ones uh the ones you know that i've colored in blue here and then eventually when when it's time to play a move after a few minutes um it will you know pick the best one from those um those those blue options that it um it searched uh in this case this this this path in pink so um so that's how you can imagine how the system works is this model this neural network uh helps to reduce down massively by obviously many many many orders of magnitude uh the amount of searching that needs to be done so we then took this alpha go system to a challenge match uh with lisa dole 18 times world champion legend of the game lisa doll in seoul in 2016 uh and we famously sort of won that game 4-1 over 200 million viewers and um people researchers both in in sort of the ai field and also go players both worlds sort of said that this was a decade before um they were expecting anything like this so until alphago came along no program had even beaten a professional player let alone a world championed a sort of legend of the game but the important thing was actually not so much of course it's really important that we won the match but but it but it was actually what was even more interesting was how alphago won the match and um i haven't got time to go into the details here but it basically came up with its own original strategies because of course it wasn't constrained by what we as human players and programmers knew so um it sort of came up with its own ideas about what was a good go strategy and good go motifs and most famously this happened in in move on in game two of this match on move 37 and uh and and the is this move move 37 is this uh uh black stone here in circle by the red that's what alphago played and um it was unthinkable if you if you look at the commentators and what they said about this everyone thought this was a terrible move and the computer didn't know what it was doing because if you're a go expert you would never at this early on in the game play at stone on what's called the fifth line this this line in red here that i've outlined and just suffice to say that's just an unthinkable crazy move and you would get told off by your go teacher if you ever moved there uh this early on and yet alphago did that and then what was really amazing was about 100 moves later this stone happened to be in exactly the right place to decide the the main fight that happened across the board it was it was positioned perfectly to decide that fight pivotally decide that fight almost as if alpha go had sort of foreseen that 100 moves before so this this game has now gone down in go legend it's in all the books everyone studies it so this is uh and people you know now play on the fifth line right so um so that was kind of amazing to see um and you know if you're interested in alphago i can recommend the the award-winning documentary of it which uh is on youtube now and you can see all of the kind of uh the drama that was involved in that so um that was you know games and we used games as a training ground for our algorithms because they're super efficient to use you can run millions of them online on the in the cloud it's also very easy to specify the goals because um there's a clear metric you know winning a game or maximizing the points so um also of course as part of my games background that i was thinking this would be the right thing to to to use um and so for the past decade uh since we started dmi you know from 2010 it's there's been amazing progress in ai and machine learning and of course all of you aware of that um really amazing like if i i i just can't believe like um back in 2010 virtually nobody was talking about ai we couldn't we could we virtually couldn't get two pennies together to start deep mind right we sort of had to beg borrow and scrape around to just get the initial small amounts of funding and now you know everybody 12 years later 10 12 years later everyone seems to be talking about ai but for me what's really exciting is i think we're on the cusp of the most exciting era of all the last 10 years have been very exciting things like alphago but i think we finally made enough progress now to tackle what we were really trying to do which is of course we love games and i love games but that's not the aim of what we were trying to do at deepmind this apollo program was not just to win at games it was to apply ai build the design these general algorithms that could be applied to important real world problems of course um specifically in scientific discovery which is my personal passion of reason for building ai but of course it can be applied to many other things industrially and commercially as well so i think what's really exciting is we're at that start of that era now and i'm going to talk a little bit about uh what makes a suitable problem for the types of techniques we've currently developed and of course this itself is a moving feast because we're continuing to extend what these ai systems are capable of doing but right now the source of systems i've just described to you what makes a suitable problem for them well it's these three kind of principles that i look for when we're considering a new problem one is is the problem can it be described or encapsulated as a sort of massive combinatorial search space or state space um we like that a criteria because that shows you you know if there's a system something like that like go then brute force methods expert systems and brute force methods will have a lot of difficulty in in that area so we look for that kind of criteria second is is there a clear objective function or metric that we can optimize against that the learning system can optimize against incrementally um so again of course in games that could be like points and then third are there lots of data to learn from or and ideally it's an and um an accurate and efficient simulator with which you can generate more data so uh self-generated data and synthetic data is also fine if it's drawn from the right distribution so those are the three criteria and um it turns out that actually there's a lot of things that fit this so it's you know maybe this sounds quite restrictive to you but actually there's a lot of things that can be couched in these terms a couple of other ancillary things we look for is is is an extra something that has an external benchmark or test games obviously are great for that because you can play world champions and and other very impressive players and that can calibrate for you externally how well your system's doing and obviously we want to look for problems that have a big downstream impact so it turns out that protein folding ticks all of those boxes and then some and obviously all of you in the room will know what this is but i know there's there's there's people uh listening online who maybe are not in biology so the protein folding problem is of course the problem of going from an amino acid sequence sort of one dimensional sequence of letters uh to a 3d protein structure and this has been a kind of 50-year quest uh ever since christian vincent i think famously uh conjectured in his nobel prize lecture in 1972 that this should be possible three-dimensional structure of a native protein should be fully determined by the amino acid sequence i do feel a bit like ferma's last theorem of like yeah this should be possible but it's just a bit too small you know margins a bit too small will leave you to figure it all out and then there's 50 years of obviously attempts at trying to do this and um but you know this really does fit uh and the the kind of criteria i just mentioned earlier on of course um first thing is the state space and uh famously levantal another another big scientist of the same era uh put forward this paradox of you know he calculated um there are you know maybe for an average protein there are 10 to the power 300 possible confirmations um so but then how is it that in nature uh you could this you know protein spoil you know spontaneously fault within milliseconds in in many cases uh and obviously randomly sampling all the possible confirmations would be totally intractable so this is one of those massive state spaces right even bigger than um goes um so the big question is can this be uh can the the structure prediction problem be solved computationally now for me personally this has been a long road to this problem to deciding when to tackle the problem i think that's one of the key things in science but also in startups is you don't want to be too far ahead of your time you want to be ahead of your time say five years but you don't want to be 50 years ahead of your time otherwise you're just going to be in for a lot of pain and my sad story about that is always like charles babbage you know i think he was maybe 100 years too ahead of his time and um you know it's pretty tragic story if you read about his life even though he obviously did amazing things um so for me i first came across the problem of protein folding actually as a student at cambridge in the 90s because i had a friend who uh ended up doing his whole career in in in protein structure uh still at the lmb now um we talk about protein folding is the most important problem to crack at any available opportunity you know in the bars playing pool whatever this is what he would talk about so stuck in my mind is like a really interesting problem and also even back then obviously i was doing ai in my games at that point uh like theme park uh and the games that paul mentioned but i i kind of thought this might be you know a good thing for ai at some point and then the second time i came across protein folding was um with the game fold it some of you will know about where i was doing my postdoc at mit in the late 2000s 2008-9 and i think it just came out and of course i was fascinated about this idea of citizen science games i still think there's a lot more actually that could be done there like can you use all of the motivation and time gamers spend on their games if we could catch our scientific problems in a game maybe we could kind of harness all of that all of that uh leisure time uh to do useful science so it's pretty cool idea and i think fold is still one of the best examples of that and what was intriguing was that um the best players obviously were not biologists they were just kind of gamers could fault discovered some real structures i think for some quite important proteins i think there were a couple of nature papers actually published on on on structures that the foldit players had found and um and what that said to me and that this is a little uh screenshot of it is you know it's like a puzzle game like people bent the backbone and they tried to minimize the energy um and and and of course um they would sometimes do encounter intuitive moves so some they would make a move that would increase the energy temporarily and then only for them to do another fold and then that would reduce it overall and and so if you think about what were these players doing as sort of amateur biologists well presumably as they were quite good gamers and they got quite into this game and they were using their intuition in a way their pattern matching skills to figure out what the right moves were and some of them had got really good at figuring out uh their intuition for protein structures so that really um then resonated with me when we did alphago of like what had we done there well we just mimicked the intuition of these incredible go masters right who spent their entire lives playing go like you could not find anyone more expert at with their pattern matching skills than a go player and um so i just felt like it must be then possible that gave me some sort of hope that it would be possible to sort of build a a system to at least match the intuition of these folded players so pretty much the day after we got back from seoul in i think was march 2016 we we decided that it was the right time to start the alpha fall project um back then so it's been been five years now the other key thing uh the reason we we decided to pick protein folding was the existence of casp um which is the kind of i would say the gold standard benchmark for for for protein structure prediction it's run every two years um since 1994 and it's run by this amazing team john moult and his team uh you know john founded it back then has kept it running for 30 years incredible and the key thing about it is a blind prediction assessment uh as i'm sure most of you in the room will know which is that you you know these are newly found experimental structures they've not been published yet but they're entered into the competition so at the point where you're trying to solve it that there is you don't the the known the structure is not known so there's no way you can overfit or do anything accidental that sometimes happens in machine learning it's it's it's truly blind so it's a fantastic test if you like then of course later in the year you do this in the summer and then later in the year they they reveal the real structures and then score your your predictions against that so um progress at casp had been very slow historically so really for the the sort of um the the previous decade before we started work on this area these are the results of as measured by you can it's measured by the score gdt score which you can think of roughly as a percentage accuracy um and you can see the sort of cast competitions from 2006 up to 2016. this is the score of the winning team uh on the hardest category free modelling category and you can see there's been sort of basically no progress and um and then when we entered for the first time in in in 2018 and cast 13 um we suddenly jumped the the you know the the winning score by nearly 50 percent um by applying cutting-edge machine learning uh as the core part of the system for the first time uh in a in a in a structured prediction system uh and then we we architected uh uh we sort of took those learnings and that experience we tried to push that further we realized that was hitting those particular techniques were hitting a a ceiling so then we took the knowledge and the know-how but we re-architected the system from the beginning with that knowledge um to then try and reach atomic accuracy which we managed to do with uh in the in the next competition in cast 14 in 2020 so atomic accuracy was always our our goal uh we achieved that at cast 14 in november 2020 um we this measured by uh uh the mean that the sort of median error um was less than one angstrom so um within an atom error and uh therefore that was competitive that's what we've been told by the casp organizers uh they would consider competitive or comparable with experimental methods and more importantly potentially useful in practice for uh experimentalists and others to to use and rely on so we alpha fall to got a 0.96 angstrom error and that was three times more accurate than the next best system in cast 14 even though by this point they had all been using our cast 13 and alpha fold one techniques obviously we published by then so um so now most of the even the most of the the rest of the teams were using machine learning at this point almost all of them um but alpha fold two was was was still three times better than that with this new system we couldn't you know there was amazing time where the first you get the first results back in sort of september october and we we were just sort of blown away by by the beauty of the the accuracy of the predictions you can see here the ground truths in green the predictions are in blue uh and even in some cases like this uh protein from sars uh uh from covet uh is is is even the side chains are pretty good in some uh in some situations so um those were the examples uh that we got back got this incredible score of of of 0.96 angstroms this is the alpha fold 2 architecture it's a incredibly sort of innovative machine learning architecture i i haven't got time to go into the the kind of gory technical details of this um but if you're interested in those then obviously check out the full methods paper uh that we published last year but um i just want to give you a flavor of the key technical advances um the key takeaways so first of all this is the most complex system we have ever built at deepmind i think um by quite some way um there was also alpha star which we did for this starcraft game but this this is the most complex system i would say and it's um it's which is which is saying something because we build a lot of complex systems and uh there's 32 component algorithms and uh one measure of how complex it is is that there's 60 pages of supplementary information quite then some preventative information with the with the paper that we wrote so describing all of the different aspects uh that were required and what that what the you know the key thing there is that there was no silver bullet there wasn't just like one uh algorithmic trick that would then solve this problem but we needed like a whole bunch of insights and innovations that needed to be carefully integrated and blended together but the key takeaways were firstly these are the key advances over the alpha fold one system that were all essential for getting this in this atomic accuracy performance uh it's a full end to end system uh with including a recycling stage that sort of recycles the prediction and it really refines the structure over a few cycles now end to end means we start off with the amino acid sequence and we give you back the 3d structure with alpha fault one that wasn't the case with alpha fold one we we gave you back an intermediate thing the distagram so the distances between the residues and then we had to use a different numerical method solution to actually give you back the 3d structure so there were sort of two parts to alpha fold one and we managed to combine that into one end to end system and in machine learning one of the things one of the sort of things that's known is that the more end to end you can make it the more you can allow the learning to flow through the whole system the the better it is for the system so um so we're always planning to do this at some point we finally managed to do that with alpha volt2 the other key thing is we switched out the kind of neural network we were using we used this attention-based neural network a very fancy one to infer the graph structure between the residues so that actually kind of builds up the graph structure before that we were using convolutional neural networks in alpha fold one which was borrowed from computer vision um but the problem with convolutions is that they make some certain assumptions which are fine for computer vision you know neighboring pixels are sort of related to each other but actually that's not if you think about it it's not good for protein folding because often residues that are near each other or even foreign residues that are far away could end up being close to each other in the final 3d structure right so in fact we were giving it the wrong biases by giving architectural biases by giving using convolutional neural networks so that was key and then that's perhaps the most vital thing of all was building in some evolutionary and physical constraints into the architecture things like bond angles and things like that without impacting the learning which is another really hard thing in machine learning to do is to mix prior knowledge that you have about the system but not impact the training and the learning so i think it's a really great alpha fall too is a really great example of how to blend those two types of knowledge so it's been a massive research effort for us probably our longest project we've done five years you know roughly 20 people hugely multi-disciplinary team amazing team just want to give a shout out to them but we of course it's not just machine learners we also have biologists chemists and physicists on the team um so we needed all of those different types of interdisciplinary knowledge in order to crack this and then the final point that i think is interesting to make is that i mentioned at the start of the talk we our overall mission is to build agi this general system that can do anything um so normally and with our games work we're really interested in in general systems so we don't want domain specific knowledge right so alpha zero as i mentioned can play any two player game from scratch without knowing anything about those games um but in when you're trying to apply those techniques to a specific problem that has important downstream consequences like alpha fold then actually we don't worry that we don't worry about generality we just throw the kitchen sink at it we just want the performance right we want it to work and and and we we want it to be um to reach a sort of performance threshold where it'll be useful and of course without without a folding protein structure prediction um that's absolutely the case so that's why you see so many of these um so it's a general these sort of general techniques but also include some domain specific knowledge in this case and of course that's absolutely fine for something like alpha volt2 and then of course now once we've built a system like that we always go back to it and see can some of this main specific aspects that we put in be removed or replaced with a more general system and that's how he went from alpha go that could only play go to alpha zero that could play any two-player game is we we sort of pulled out the ghost-specific things out of alphago and and just kept seeing if we could replace it with something more general so the speed and scale of this um you know what this is another thing that we do is we often uh in again in machine learning and our engineering stuff we try to meet the performance we're trying to reach first then once we get there we then spend time go back to looking at the system and see if we can optimize it to make it more efficient um so by the end of doing alpha volt2 we it's actually incredibly fast system uh training the whole network only takes about two weeks uh on roughly eight tpus which is um tensor processing units which roughly about 150 gpus which is a very modest amount of compute actually for modern day machine learning systems so this is not a story about compute power it's just it's actually what was key was the architectural innovations so this is really fast for training but it's even faster for inference for asking getting the answer back for a particular structure takes in the order of minutes uh or even seconds for an average protein on a single uh gpu single gpu machine so when um sort of over christmas uh just after the competition around you know december 2020 we were thinking about okay how are we going to give broad access to all of you and biologists uh to the predictions um and normally the way you do it with these types of uh systems is you set up a server and then you know you can submit your structure to the server and it will give you back a structure but we thought we could do something better than that given the speed of the system is we could actually uh just just fold entire proteomes and and that was within reach so this sort of moment of realization and then in fact we did do the human proteome over christmas so we set all our machines running uh left them for christmas came back in january and there was the human proteome so which is one of the magical things about you know computational methods uh they can carry on working while you have your christmas lunch so um so that's what we decided to do so we we we did our first version of human proteome of course we we had to we had to check it and analyze it and build analysis tools for that so that took um a few months um uh so we had these really good predictions um then we wanted to kind of uh build a confidence measure of how good were these predictions uh and i'll explain that in a minute but basically experimental coverage of the human proteome is about 17 uh after you know 30 years of of painstaking and amazing experimental work and we more than doubled that in one go to 36 with very high accuracy predictions and around 58 of the human protein was covered by what we would um call high accuracy uh uh predictions and what was interesting is even the the rest of the um proteins that were you know had a lower accuracy or confidence around them um they seemed to map and this is still an ongoing piece of research we're doing with some collaborators to uh areas of the proteins that are thought to be unstructured in isolation so in fact one could maybe turn it on its head and think about uh alpha fold as a as a disorder predictor if it can't predict uh something very well then perhaps it is disordered in isolation so this is um you know the most complete and accurate picture ever of the of the human proteome um so we published another paper on that with all the analyses of it the key thing is as we we knew we wanted uh biologists to use this and perhaps people scientists and researchers who were not familiar with machine learning models um so we we wanted to make sure we you know in this case that confidence measures uh were really important and normally they were nice to have for machine learning models like how confident is your model about his prediction but here we felt that they were critical and uh so we we came up with a a a a nice sort of novel measure of confidence per residue confidence metric which we call pldt and um over 90 on that one can think of is very high accuracy with even the side chains would be good and uh sort of competitive with experimental methods uh that's kind of like the dark blue if it's above 70 we believe that's high accuracy and you can think qualitatively that means that probably the backbone is pretty reliable um but maybe not you know the side chains and things and then less than 50 uh you know as i mentioned earlier could be a good predictor of disorder but obviously more research is needed before we could assert that confidently wide stop at the human proteome of course we then decided to uh doing further 20 proteomes for model organisms all sorts of different important research species but also some pathogens um and then we collaborated we had this amazing collaboration with embol ebi the european bioinformatics institute based in cambridge um and to build this into a standard database tool and of course the ebi host a lot of the world's most important databases things like uniprot so they were perfect partners for this to leverage all their expertise in building databases and make it as simple as possible for biologists like all of you a lot to use as part of your standard process and um so we put all of these predictions up in the database and released it uh with the methods paper uh sort of free and unrestricted access to every structure for whatever use one wants to use it for and we felt in this case that was the best way to maximize the scientific impact and benefit to the research community and of course um hopefully with all the what all the researchers do with it will um downstream benefit humanity as a whole which goes back to obviously our original uh and still mission we're now up to a million predictions in the database today so we've expanded it to uh everything in swissprot uh obviously we've curated proteins of interest um we've also been very interested in helping out the who uh and various non-profit foundations who look at neglected tropical diseases because often they don't have the structures for those things and there are and you know pharma companies don't generally invest in those diseases so it's especially useful for them so we've been working with the who very carefully on that and and asking them what they want for for global health priorities so we provided them with a couple hundred thousand new structures on uh uh organisms for negative diseases um and then the community has already done amazing things with alpha fold just in six months of us releasing all of this and the open source code and the databases um uh uh colleagues of owls and bull have have have used it to help model their big complex biology like the nuclear poor complex uh i mentioned already people have shown alpha fold is better than the state of the art in protein disorder predicting uh we've worked with g7 who to um give them back all the structures of the top 30 pathogens they've identified for um that could could potentially cause a future pandemic and has actually been pretty useful for experimentalists to help resolve uh their experimental data on protein structures and we expect there to be you know hundreds of other applications in the in the coming years um you know impact alpha has been very good 000 researchers have used the database already um from 190 countries millions of structures views and so on obviously we've had some nice accolades and what we plan to do from here is over the next year um to we plan to fold every protein in uniprot so every protein sort of known to science over 100 million proteins and counting um and obviously we're continuing to collaborate with the ebi on improving the database and adding new features and if you have any um uh suggestions yourselves we have lots of feedback forms in the database and we do read all the emails so please tell us if you have any suggestions or you found some uh some uh structures that you think look strange and then we will incorporate that in the next you know try and improve that in the next version of alpha fault so just to finish then i want to obviously thank uh the the pdb uh who obviously without those initial experimental structures we couldn't have trained alpha fold uh and and obviously the experimental biology community at large um thanks to everybody who made alpha possible obviously the methods team and the and the human protein human proteome team our collaborators at embal and also the cast community but just to finish i'll just talk a little bit about the future looking work so we're now pressing forward on many other new dimensions this is just the beginning for us i would say of what we can apply ai and computational methods to been looking at protein complexes many of you have used our new alpha fold system alpha fold multimer that can deal with multimeters pretty well disorder proteins point mutations ligand docking protein interaction protein design this is just some of the things that we are currently looking at and just to connect back with what paul said at the beginning and actually paul and i have been discussing this on and off for like 25 years now or something and maybe we've sort of joked maybe finally is the time to do these things is i think we're kind of the dooring dawning of a new era perhaps in digital biology i think at its most fundamental level biology is an information processing system um but life is phenomenally complex as all of you will know better than me and it's an emergent process so i my suspicion is that it's too complex to ever be sort of describable in kind of neat mathematical equations i i know some people try that and mathematicians are trying that but i i just don't think they'll be kind of a newton's laws of motion for for a cell um i just think it's too emergent and too too interactive and too dynamic but potentially it's the perfect type of regime for ai to work in right sort of figuring out all the you know the patterns in all these weak signals so i actually think ai might be the right description language for biology just as the same way that math is the right description language for physics and i think and i hope that alpha fold is a kind of proof of concept of that a major proof of concept on that and perhaps you know herald's the beginning of this kind of new era of what i would call digital biology and the dream would one day be able to create something like a full virtual cell simulation that you could interrogate and do experiments in silico and then you know validate that experimentally i mentioned about scientific discovery we've actually had an amazing sort of year it's not just alpha fold we've had all these other big sort of high profile papers and breakthroughs in many other areas of science quantum chemistry pure mathematics fusion genomics um you can read the papers if you're interested i haven't got time obviously to go into all of them but it's it's been as you can imagine a very fun time for us over the last year to to sort of take off our dream list of of problems in science and areas and science that are super fascinating and at the cutting edge themselves and i think there's so much more uh to come so i'll just end by saying you know the way i've always viewed ai is um you know i wanted to build this tool kind of this ultimate general purpose tool to help scientists see further a little bit like the hubble telescope has allowed you know cosmologists to see the universe much more deeply and much further thank you [Applause] wonderful demis thank you very much really good okay so we've got questions in the lecture theater and questions also online we'll start in the lecture theater and there's two microphones and um just come up and ask away number one hello um i don't know if you can hear me fascinating talk um i was wondering if you could talk a little bit about how ai reinforces biases in society and how that might have an impact on health and disease and what deep mind is doing to address that yes great question i think one always has to be very careful of that obviously this is a very um hot topic right now in research of um addressing biases in the system part of that comes from the data sources so that that's a really important thing to look at and analyze itself the data creation where the data comes from it's interesting there's a lot of active research going on in things like generating synthetic data to perhaps rebalance the data bias that one might get from the real data um but that but the generation itself can also be biased so there's you have to you have to sort of be aware of this at every stage i also think that this is why you need you know we spend a lot of time broadening our diverse uh set of people that work on these systems because i think that even though these systems are learning systems so they learn for themselves from data they're still going to be always be an echo in the design of the structure or the goal that you give it from the designers right so even though it's not as direct as it used to be with the expert systems there's still going to be an echo of like the value systems of the people and the culture that they're in that designed it in order to uh set off the learning system what it's going to learn so i think one just has to have that at the forefront of your mind the whole time and get a diverse set of inputs as early as possible uh in the design of these systems uh and the engineering of these systems and you know we're trying very hard to do that deepmind and sponsoring a lot of things in the ecosystem uh diversity scholarships and other things to also bring up the next generation to get into this area next one at the back yeah uh so my my question kind of has three parts but it's it's one question so the uh so you mentioned intuition several times in the talk and i was just wondering how common it is that uh as humans we solve the kinds of problems that ai is used for based on the three criteria you gave how common is it for us to solve those problems using um intuition and then the second part of the question is uh why is conscious uh computation and in our sense uh slower than uh intuition is and uh what does that tell us about consciousness well these are the easy questions yeah uh great questions so intuition you might remind me all of them as i answer them intuition um so you know i have a working definition of internship i don't want to start a huge row about because obviously these are philosophy you know this sort of in the realms of philosophy what is intuition what is consciousness but my work operational definition of intuition is knowledge i think there's anything really mystical about it's knowledge that we've gained through experience right if you talk about human intuition but it's not consciously accessible so our conscious parts of the brain can't access it and we can't describe it right that's all it is and i think in scientific endeavor but also in our normal lives if you if i tell you you know describe to me how you swim or ride a break in a way that i could program into an expert system incredibly difficult right because because it's below the level of what we're consciously able to access right and that's traditionally why those those those types of things have been very difficult for roboticists to do and so on so i think of course we use that insight as scientists i think and often we call it things like having good taste or good judgment you know and i think the best scientists do have that and i think that what that is is these all these signals that we're bombarded with from our experiments or reading papers or listening to speakers um you know if you're really good scientists your your intuitive part of your brain is going to synthesize some interesting new uh conjecture from that so i do think we we use our intuition a lot and but i don't think there's anything too mystical about it i think that ai systems can also find those types of patterns and signals too i think pattern matching is a or pattern recognition is a key part of intuition so that's the first question consciousness so i think you said um you know conscious expression well i i you know i don't think that consciousness is necessary for intelligence um i think that if you were to push me on it i would say that they're sort of doubly dissociable so i can imagine intelligence systems that do intelligent things that don't feel conscious to us at all and i would classify all the systems i've shown you today as that right none of them i don't worry about any of them as being partially conscious some people do some of my team do worry about not letting alpha go play go games and whether that's that's you know it's sad because of that but i don't think it is although there is something a little bit because goes considered to be an art form so it is in in in asia right so it is a little bit like are we turning off picasso that could make more picassos uh paintings you know go games so but i you know that they're sort of it's it's that's you know not to be taken too seriously um so and i think the other way is true too so uh you know i think that if you look at um the higher animals you know dogs and dolphins and things like that i think it's pretty clear i would argue that they are conscious right they have consciousness they seem to dream if you look at a pet dog or something they have complex social dynamics um but they're not as intelligent as humans and maybe in some cases one wouldn't call them general intelligences right in the sense of they could do sort of generalized to anything they're quite specific to their ecological niche um so it's a sort of interesting dissociation but actually i think that building ai in the way we're trying to build in this general and general way and analyzing that is going to be one of the best ways to find out more about what consciousness is because i think if we compare these systems to the human brain and see what the differences are i would say that um uh you know we might see what the sort of special essence is of perhaps human consciousness um that makes us different peter i wonder as fascinated he brought in evolution and i wonder if you tell us how important evolution is in your models yes um what we think here as biologists is our lives made immensely more difficult because of the perversity of evolution as francois jacob famously said nature is a tinkerer not an engineer whereas in a sense you're you're an engineer can you comment on whether nature could have done things in many different ways and achieved the same solution in other words the inverse of what you're doing or how and how important is evolutionary constraint in your prediction well i mean the evolution constraint is comes in pretty important with a multi-sequence alignment uh part of the system um so it is key it's not um vital like you can you know we did these ablation studies where you can remove all the different bits and see how well it still does so it's not um it's it's not completely essential but it's important for the very you know the very high performance so that's where we the evolutionary part comes in um in terms of your more general question i mean i think evolution is an incredibly powerful simple algorithm i think that's clear what that is what that's what's you know giving rise to all of this um and that is fascinating and uh but it isn't efficient right so it is it is sort of as you say a tinkering system and it needed billions of years and you might not you know who knows if you re-round the experiment would you get human intelligence or not um it's not clear um so uh perhaps there was you know a great you know people talk about these great filters that had to be uh got through like um going from you know going to eukaryotes and so on so i think um we would like something a little bit more direct than uh evolution although we do also have a team that that does evolutionary uh programming so actually mimics uh some of the aspects of evolution uh to just to bring in that diversity element because it is another way of exploring uh and finding novelty is obviously to randomly try things but it's a little bit of a brute force algorithm i would say so we're probably after something a little bit more efficient if possible okay um online there's a lot online in many different directions and one direction is really what's alpha fold three you already gave us some ideas of where you want to go and one thing is dynamics obviously at the moment it's all static structures so what about dynamics how far do you think you can go could you go to really look at whole pathways predict how biological pathways might work respond to inputs and then also along what alpha 4 can do do you think you will be able at some stage to predict function from structure yeah and that's a summary of a lot of questions thank you yes absolutely this is we see this as the beginning of a big journey of um you can sort of think of it as moving up the hierarchy of complexity so you know obviously uh uh we we started off with this this grand challenge and and in the sort of static case we would love to understand protein protein interactions um and protein ligand binding and you know all of these things um uh more you know the dynamic way these systems work and uh we have some promising early work on that uh and also we're we're trying some fundamental things too like can we understand uh protein folding from the physics aspect right so this is a sort of it's almost like a translation machine we've built so far with alpha thought too right you have a language with the amino acid sequence and then you want a different language a 3d structure so you one can think of it almost like a translation model even though it's not how it works um but what you know can we actually model all the physics and the physics energies and so on so we have some people who are pushing hard on that and that might unlock things like you know activation energies of enzymes and things like that should be obviously super useful and things like protein design so um and then we are starting to look actually potentially collaborating with paul and others on pathways and and and building up slowly towards this dream of a virtual cell the question is that's the end goal how does one get there um you know after falls may be one of those components but how what's the next stages what would be the interim stages if that was like a 10-year goal uh and i think we are you know we've got some promising ideas for that now i you know i listed some of them uh at the end of my talk and um some of those will manifest themselves in alpha fall three of course there's also just the continually improving of the current system and making sure that you know we get that more and more accurate and you know it's not perfect in all cases and some of you may have some examples of where it doesn't work well we'd love to understand what those are and improve that in a new system um in the same way we did with alphago so one of the ways we do that is another version of alphago alphago zero we we in that diagram i showed you about always insisting that the new version can beat the old version um there's we added something to that in later on in alphago which was the not only did it have to beat the old version it had to do better on this special set of problem positions that we knew the earlier system couldn't go got confused in let's say right so that and we collected those uh automatically because we could we could detect when the alphago system got confused very rarely but we collected literally about 100 positions eventually was about a thousand positions and and initially you know the alphago system that beat lisa dole got scored zero out of a thousand on those positions even though it's very strong in general and then by the end of it we had a second match against the chinese uh world champion about a year later and by then it was getting about not only was it much stronger beating the older version it was getting 950 out of a thousand of those difficult positions right now i can imagine i would like to create with all the help of all of you a a sort of database of problem proteins that we we know alpha fold two doesn't do well on uh and then we would sort of train against those specifically as well as the overall accuracy okay so um to the back first hi thanks a lot um this is kind of related to peter radcliff's question i'm sure less articulate in the second iteration but um i've enjoyed doing a small amount of mutagenesis or e-mutagenesis with alpha-fold with my protein of interest and as i add more amino acids into odd positions i start to wonder if um it can predict um a synthetic sequence given it's only learnt on the proteome that exists yes well it's interesting question it seems to do quite well on de novo proteins so there were there were a couple actually in the cast competition and it did particularly well on on those surprisingly somewhat surprisingly given that you know obviously the evolutionary information is a key part of the inputs right through the msa but um one thing i would caution against is is is relying too much on the on the mutated predictions because with alpha fold two one of the things it's weaker at is point mutation predictions that um you know change the confirmation in a radical way which obviously sometimes happens in disease and we're trying to figure out that's one of the main things we're working on because we it's one of the main things we get asked for you can imagine useful for biologists and we're working really hard on it it's a hard problem because in a way one can think of alpha fold has been trained to be robust to small changes because we you know you you want it to be if it's sort of exploring the la energy landscape you sort of don't want it to have these weird delta functions where you change one one one residue and suddenly you know you're on some other huge completely different part of the region of space uh that would be not such good behavior in normal cases where you know a residue probably doesn't make much difference but of course in diseases there's the occasional mutations that would make a huge difference and um in a way we got to sort of tell alpha fault to pay special attention to that somehow and kind of detect that it needs to in a way say okay this isn't a normal thing that i should just sort of be resilient to robust to uh i actually you know it needs to actually take that really heavily overweight it in some way one could say in its attention network so that's one way of thinking about it and then related to this is is another question we add is can we in some situations you know can you get multiple confirmations out of alpha fault not just one uh and again you know misfolded proteins and other things there's another thing we'd like to sort of ask alpha fold again can you give me an alternate the next best you know the next most energy uh efficient confirmation and that's you know we can sometimes do that but it's not reliable enough yet i would say so um yeah hopefully in the next year or so we'll have something a lot better for your emutogenesis experiments right another one at the back then we'll come to the front then we'll go digital okay um thank you for that fantastic talk um so so you mentioned during the talk um you know this premise that in vivo proteins fault you know instantly essentially um however they they don't necessarily always fold just by themselves so there are contributions from you know chaperones that will you know contribute to the folding um so to what extent do you think uh modeling uh the the contribution of chaperones to um stabilizing sort of intermediate um you know com confirmations could contribute to um refining you know alpha folds uh for for problematic um structures yeah no it's a great question i think um i think eventually in the limit we will have to model the context right the chaperones and other things i think this goes back to the earlier question from online about the dynamics of the situation okay if we want to get up to virtual cell or anything pathways even we're going to have to take into account all these dynamic things that go on around it um that was one of the reasons i think you know chaperones and things like that was also one of the reasons my you know people were telling us alpha fold would never work you know it was basically essentially this conjecture was wrong from that and vincent right that that's the negative view of it i guess would be that you can't actually just go from the amino acid sequence to the structure without taking into account all these things which clearly happen in in in real biology but um networks are pretty clever somehow understanding context right that even if you don't explicitly give it to them if it's sort of there in the data you know imagine that chaperones do certain systematic set of things with particular type of proteins even if you didn't put them into the directly into the inputs the the the sort of consequence of those things might be modelable so uh you know the best example we have of that is things like uh proteins that sort of have pockets and to you know bind to certain things heme binding proteins and other things is the one we usually use example even if you don't give it the heme or what what it's supposed to be binding it it kind of makes the pocket just with the missing ion you know it's just sort of knows somehow that that that shape that that kind of protein should should have that type of um capacity even though obviously it doesn't know anything at this point about the dynamics um so it's sort of this is the idea of like machine learning and ai picking up weak signals that we as human designers would never be able to program in things like that right but somehow those there are enough weak signals let's say in the data to to allow you to approximate that those influences thank you from mike please hi that was a awesome talk um i guess i have a more general question so deepmind's goal is artificial general intelligence and i guess the main method that you use is reinforcement learning do you think that everything that kind of encompasses intelligence comes down to maximizing points or minimizing risks no i yeah so we i should just be clear we we use many techniques we don't mind uh so deep learning is key it's why we call deep mind because we we bet on deep learning back in 2010 before sort of anyone else knew about it obviously it's everyone uses that now um i guess what i was meaning is one of the more unique things about deepmind is we put a lot of emphasis on reinforcement learning this trial and error learning this active learning um i don't think everything is as easy to specify as absolutely you know like not like the kind of points and and um and uh you know minimizing risks it's that's a whole research area in itself is how to specify goals um you know another approach is the the ai system could like learn what the right value function is maybe from a meta meta reward that you give it but it's you know clearly as you get closer to human society things it's very difficult for us to specify what the really the objective functions are so um maybe another approach would be to get feedback from from the human user or the human expert to kind of train it in the way uh that that's desirable for for the for the task at hand so this course is obviously a massive area of research and in fact one of you know when i put up the rl diagram that was one of the super complex things is that little box saying goal well how do you specify it how do you make sure how do you um make sure it doesn't deviate from it in in ways that you don't want it to right this is the risks part you specify a goal how can you make sure that that's the only thing it does that's actually what you wanted um and what's you know uh a nuanced enough language in which to uh specify that goal is also going to be complicated the more real world we get with our our um applications but right now we're sticking to things that are you know quite easy to specify i would say like you know 3d structures of proteins or energy systems all of those science things i showed you have quite reason we picked most of them as they have quite clear metrics that um already the scientists in that area are trying to optimize for so it's easy for us but this is a big question we're going to have to overcome in the next few years um virtual okay we have some questions about potential negative impacts of general purpose ai um be it by malicious designers that misuse them or people who badly design their systems so what do you think should be done to safeguard against this or what can be done yeah i'm you know i worry about those things too i think there are different sets of worries there's two sorts of sets of worries uh around ai systems one is what they might do themselves you know i think we just touched on that with if you misspecify the goal and so on but i think the obvious bigger worry is malicious humans using these systems in the wrong way and um i think part of that is making sure the general public and politicians and governments understand better what these systems are what is ai for example i think there's a lot of misnomers out there about even the definition of what is ai um and what isn't um and then beyond that is we i think we're gonna have to set up a bunch of principles perhaps even regulations at some point uh with government about how these systems should be deployed um or used uh once they hit applications because obviously that's when that's when they have real world consequences i think you know when you're doing research and games and so on i mean one of the reasons we pick games it was it was a safe place to experiment in right um it's a sandbox basically so it's the perfect um uh sandbox to wish to to investigate these ideas and still is so we still by the way i want to get clear we still use games and simulations to for all of our research um partially because of this because it's a safe domain um but as you start doing more applications self-driving cars whatever that is then obviously at that point um uh rules and regulations and things that govern those areas already whether that's transport or healthcare whatever need to be updated to deal with this new type of technology just in the same way they were updated to deal with mobile and internet and digital in the first place 20 years ago i think there needs to be another overhaul careful thoughtful overhaul that doesn't stop useful helpful innovation but um curtails this sort of bad usage uh cases of uh of these systems or bad training you know i think we touched earlier on the first question on bias and things like that and there's so many of course one thing i worry about is because ai is so um popular and buzzword now and say in the startup world you know people can raise millions of dollars just but everyone says they're working on ai and it's ridiculous like 99 of them i would say are not um or don't even know what it is and so firstly it's giving a bad name to the whole field but also uh it can lead to cutting of corners of things that obviously shouldn't be done but if one were to do it you could make money on it um doing face recognition or something but it would just be unethical okay back please um so thank you for the talk uh how easy would you say this is to completely reverse engineer so i want a stick man or molecular motor yeah spit me out an amino acid code well this is a again something we're really actively looking at and i think others are as well can you put say alpha fold into the design protein design loop i think is what you're talking about a stick man protein are you meaning okay so um so i think there are various ways to try this like you could sort of use it as an oracle like okay here's i'm gonna change the amino acid sequence in this way tell me what the structure is and you keep sort of you could imagine making a cycle out of that there have been a few archive papers on that we've tried that ourselves we don't think that's quite the right way to do it we think there's more that is needed uh to be this sort of true generative model almost reverse model this does get back actually to actually answer that question on function from online about well the dream would be to say the function that you want and then you just get the amino acid sequence that will produce the right protein structure for it but i don't think you know from what i understand we don't understand enough yet how structure and function relate obviously there is relation but a lot of big biologist scientists i talked to say there's much more to it than structure of course all the dynamics we've been discussing so thank you so um so i think there's the i would say it doesn't quite work yet but clearly uh this is something on our radar when i say protein design that's obviously the kinds of things we're looking at um it should be very useful in future for that the type of thing you're talking about front mic so all sorts of really interesting problems in biology that would be susceptible to ai so practical question how do we collaborate more between the crick and deepmind well yeah we we collaborate quite a lot already and and um we're actually potentially even setting up a small little wet lab here to to help validate some of the predictions that we're doing i'm just talking to paul and sam about that um so then um you know we we can we can that will also facilitate collaborations um we also started a new company that will take this further i call isomorphic labs that will just take the biology part of this further beyond what like deepmind can do as just a more of a general ai um research organization so uh once that gets sort of settled and built up i think that that entity will also be able to collaborate more on specific biology um issues but if you've got any you know questions i'm going to be around later and then some of my team are here too and you know we're just across the road so it's easy it's easy geographically to collaborate it's always about problem is you can imagine we've since we've done alpha fall and and released it we've been inundated with with collapse sort of collaboration ideas and and we're still a relatively small team especially working on these types of things so it's all about prioritizing what would actually make the most difference and and you know sort of stack ranking that but feel free to let us know what our your idea is thanks back mike please hi thanks for talk um so all the deep mind ais have been like changes that no one expected big paradigm shifts and leaps ahead um do you think that that is going to continue to be the case the way forward do you think it's going to be more slow and iterative from now on and if it isn't those big leaps what is the biological challenge that you think is most dependent on a kind of big leap or changing way of thinking like that do you mean an ai itself or ai applied to biology i applied to biology oh okay yeah um well i i i think there are going to be a lot more leaps actually so um or it's going to feel like that that there will be leaps so um i think clearly the big one is can we get to dynamic systems i think that's the next i mean i think i guess we've i've answered that a lot of other questions i think that's the real and can we get down to is are our systems really learning uh can they learn physics properties of what's going on um so i think those are the next sort of big challenges and um you know we'll see if that's possible obviously no one knows if that's possible yet but i suspect that it will be thank you thank you i think we probably i'm getting worried about dennis's health here the last two questions here um hi so i wanted to ask you about the explainability of ai yes because as we know deep learning is to some extent a black box yes and i think explainability of that is quite important when we are getting close to the domains like healthcare and even like folding the proteins so i wanted to ask to what extent do you actually understand decision making in alpha fault yeah and what should be you know in the future kind of like spread of the resources towards getting the great result versus actually understanding how decisions were made by the diplomatic diplomatic network yeah great question i'm glad you asked that actually because so i kind of have a multi-part answer to this so first of all um absolutely you know these systems are the the kind of the the sort of cliche at the moment is that they are black box systems which is true right you you sort of put these inputs you train them and then they give you what you're measuring them by is the output not really how it got there um but we're also science so we're engineers and scientists at dmi so we would also like to understand how you know that what how is it doing this um and perhaps one day you could imagine reverse engineering out some principles that are sort of human explainable about what it's doing um now what i would say is initially with all ai is an engineering science i call it an engineering science so how does that differ from a natural science like you know what all of you do with biology or physics or chemistry is that the phenomena you're studying is already exists it's out there right so and and and it's phenomenally complex to to to study and break down and reduce down into its principles um with engineering science we have to build the artifact first right and then we can analyze it but the analysis part there's no reason to think it would be any easier than for for for natural phenomena right with these incredibly i mean i sort of just gave you a feel for the alpha faults you know complexity it's it's it's crazily complex and so um you know it's going to take the same amount of effort now until now i don't think a lot of don't think enough effort and i don't think a lot of effort has gone into understanding these black boxes but that's partly because until very recently they didn't really do anything very interesting right so so if one's gonna spend five years uh analyzing a black box well you better you better it better be the case that the black box is doing something worthwhile right so so until like things like alpha go i don't think there was anything really worthy of the amount of effort that would take now um but even alphago game systems so we the best work i have example of that so far is alpha zero which plays chess um that we just published an archive paper with some of the people our programmers on that system but also with vladimir kramnik who's the ex-world chess champion he was fascinated by alpha zero how it played and he wanted to help us analyze the alpha zero system and i i um of course there's a x chess player i was fascinated by that too so i we went ahead with that project because in chess as i mentioned in the beginning that's one of the most studied areas of domains of ai it's you know chess programs have been made since the days of touring and shannon right they even famously programmed you know creating all the chess programs and of course we know what um rules should look like for chess these heuristics that the the the classical systems use so we were wondering could we back could we extract out of our alpha zero network those rules things like king safety queen mobility p you know number of p the value of the pieces uh and so i i sort of point you at that point we just released that recently as yes it turns out we could actually reverse engineer out what alpha zero thought about those situations and then compare that to what classical machines could do you remember the name of the paper the title uh it was like i come from i remember if you look at me there's only one paper we've done together so it's quite recent um and so yeah so i think we need to basically uh there's a whole much more research to come and i think we're a transitory moment in ai in that i think in the next 10 years you'll see loads more tools visualization tools analysis tools for analyzing important systems it's just only now have we got systems i think that are worth like an hour fold to that people will even be interested to understand the how of um so my suspicion is is that this is a it's not a fundamental problem with these citizens they're black boxes they are currently but i think they can be interrogated and my final example of that is my the neuroscientist hat on is what i tell and we have a lot of we have a whole neuroscience team uh at deepmind as well and um what i say to them is that we should understand these artificial networks at least as well as we understand brands and currently we understand them less well because brains are sort of you know human brains a bit of a black box too if i tell you you know how are you coming up with these questions it's a bit of a black box right you can tell me some theories but who knows right what's really happening but of course we can from you know do fmri and and single cell recording all these things now so we're finding out more but in the in the artificial brain situation we have a we can do we have a lot more freedom to do all sorts of things um we did a bunch of ablation studies on alpha fold two right so that's the first step of analyzing something is we so we spent a good few months breaking down which parts of the components of the system were needed turns out all of them um but why so there's that's a little bit of understanding um but we should we should be as a lower bound we should understand as much about these artificial networks as we do about um brains you know natural brains and currently we're we're definitely less understanding than that so there's a lot of head room to go so people are interested in that question you know we have a whole team looking at building those kinds of analysis tools we call it virtual brain analytics um and there's you know i think it's a fascinating project you know research area in itself great thank you great thank you it's an excellent question to finish i say so we will finish there um tremendous um talk tremendous energy still going at an hour and a half still some way to go after it he um demise is going to be involved in one of our smaller discussion groups so we're going to go straight there after it but now thanks dennis wonderful performance wonderful work thanks you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: 2cqpncnLUJM (https://youtu.be/2cqpncnLUJM) ===


welcome back to deepmind the podcast with me hannah fry for this series i've been speaking to researchers at the cutting edge of ai to find out what they're working on and the implications it could have for all of us in the last four episodes we've been looking ahead to the long-term future of ai including some of the ideas that researchers hope will bring them to artificial general intelligence but in the next two episodes we want to share with you some of the ways that ai is already being put to work along the way here's deepmind ceo demus asabis my personal reason for working on ai was to use ai as the ultimate tool to accelerate scientific discovery in almost any field and i think alpha fold is our first massive example of that if you heard episode 1 you'll know all about alpha fold deepmind's state-of-the-art system that can accurately predict the three-dimensional structures of proteins but alpha fold isn't the only science project within these walls step inside the labs and you'll find researchers scrutinizing dna to understand the mysteries of life hunting for new ways to harness nuclear energy or putting ai to the test in some of the most mind-expanding areas of mathematics so what are you waiting for come on in this is episode six ai for science [Music] push meet coley who we heard from in episode one oversees deepmind's ai for science program across the natural sciences and when it comes to a list of areas that are being worked on he is exactly the man to ask biology proteomics and genomics in quantum chemistry like material design fusion fundamental mathematics ecology weather now that is a fairly intimidating list but over the course of the next 30 minutes or so i'll be walking you through as many of them as we can get to to give you a sense of the potential for ai to make a difference to science first though you might be wondering why a company that made its name getting ai to play computer games became involved in these serious scientific subjects and that is where i started the conversation with push meat science has been in the dna of deep mind from the very start it's more of the case that as we sort of built up these systems and proved them on games we then started thinking about now is a good time to actually stress test them on the real scientific challenges that society is facing for sarah jane dunn a research scientist on the science team deepmind science program is fundamental to the company's aim of solving intelligence to advance science and benefit humanity that's quite an abstract concept to some people the point is you have techniques that can tackle some of the hardest problems that have eluded the brightest minds for decades and so i think being able to show people the power of these technologies to really help humanity that for me is one of the most valuable aspects of what we're doing in science what the ai for science team does is try to identify suitable scientific problems for ai to work on that will go on to have the biggest impact one way of thinking about it is this idea of the tree of knowledge there are some problems which are the so-called root node problems which unlock so many other problems downstream protein folding was one such example once you understand the structure of proteins that has implications for developing new drugs or coming up with new enzymes for breaking down plastics another example would be if you had a great source of energy other problems like access to clean water become much more tractable once you have unlimited energy at your disposal and then once we have sort of isolated some of these root note problems we then think about what is the role machine learning and ai has to play and now that deep mind has made significant progress on protein folding it's turning to some of those other root node problems that push me mentioned one of them is nuclear fusion [Music] it's hard to emphasize just how big an impact a breakthrough in nuclear fusion might have it is the long-held dream of scientists around the world that one day we would be able to fuse two hydrogen atoms together and in doing so create a totally unlimited totally clean and safe supply of energy it would spell the end of our climate crisis but before we get too carried away i should tell you that nuclear fusion is really hard to get atoms to fuse you first have to heat them up until they form something called a plasma a state of matter that is so hot that the electrons are stripped from the atoms here's demises to explain one of the really hard things about fusion is how do you contain this plasma that's like as hot as the sun and it would burn anything obviously they're touched so the way you have to contain it is in a magnetic field the problem is that the plasma is almost in a chaotic regime so at any moment a bit of it might just sort of shoot down a certain direction and you have to change the magnetic field quick enough to respond to that to keep hold of the plasma for multiple seconds the plasma is held inside something called a tokamak it's like a giant metal donut big enough to walk through the magnets around the edge create a field strong enough to suspend the plasma in the middle away from the sides but the plasma is wobbly and unstable and as soon as it touches anything it's game over the comparatively cold sides of the tokamak saps the energy from the plasma and the heat dissipates almost instantly up till now what people have done in the physics world is they've hand written mathematical controllers for what the plasma might do whereas our system what it's learned to do is predict what the plasma might do from the shape of it and then almost ahead of time change the magnetic field to react to what it thinks is going to happen and even more excitingly we're actually doing like plasma sculpting so we can actually split it into two or elongate it it's almost like ice sculpture but with plasma that's as hot as the sun yeah it's a hot as a sun but as push meat explains it's not just about keeping the plasma stable it's also about which configuration of the plasma you are keeping stable there are certain configurations which produce more heat and what reinforcement learning now allows you to do is basically you can say i want this funky configuration because i think that it is going to be more stable or it will produce more heat capacity and so on and the ai is like yeah i can do it for you rather than sort of a human spending a year of their time sort of thinking about how to control the different current in the coils and how to maintain the right voltages and so on for that particular configuration i see so it's a shortcut basically it accelerates the whole research cycle amazing and as if protein folding and nuclear fusion weren't enough to keep the ai for science team busy they've been pursuing a raft of other projects including in the field of ecology this has taken ai out of the science lab and into a setting where you might not expect to find it at work where we're working in the serengeti is very classic lion king east african landscape so you have the rolling grasslands it started with those iconic acacia trees broad open savannas meredith palmer is a conservation biologist at princeton university in new jersey but you'll usually find her with a pair of binoculars out in the field you have something like 700 species of birds 50 species of large mammals that are traversing around the greater serengeti ecosystem so down from tanzania up into kenya in this kind of endless circle chasing the rains and when the migration comes back into town you can hear the bleeding of the wildebeest the sounds of the flies that are following the migration around this annual gathering of animals the great migration as it's known is one of the last in the world and one of many reasons that ecologists are so interested in the serengeti we have lions but we also have cheetah and wild dog and hyena and leopard and all of these species are trying to co-exist and so to understand all of the interconnections between these wildlife we need to be studying these wildlife communities unfortunately though climate and agricultural change as well as illegal poaching are all having a growing impact on the local ecosystem about a decade ago to help them monitor changes in the serengeti ecologists installed devices known as camera traps across a 1 200 square kilometer area of serengeti national park camera traps are small remote cameras we can strap them to a tree and leave them running 24 hours a day seven days a week for months or even years the camera traps are triggered by the heat and motion of passing animals to take pictures we can examine the images to see what animals are in them and what these animals are doing as you might expect these camera traps take a lot of pictures lots of fantastic candid shots and lots that show the back of an animal or some shape that's a bit hard to discern imagine letting a four-year-old run loose with your phone and then scrolling through the camera roll at the end it's a bit like that these camera traps are producing 10 to 20 000 images a month so we as ecologists are really facing this massive deluge of data and the big issue for us is that we can't use the images straight out of the camera trap to address our research and conservation questions someone has to go and look at each and every one of these tens of hundreds of thousands of images and write down you know this image contains three adult zebra and one baby zebra i once calculated that it would take me seven or eight years to process a single year's worth of image data faced with all this data meredith and her colleagues became early adopters of citizen science we essentially crowdsourced the classification process and you could look at our camera trap pictures and identify all of the animals and behaviors that you saw in our field data after a while though a problem arose as the number of citizen science projects exploded the snapshot serengeti project as it was called could no longer attract enough volunteers to manually go through all of the images that needed labeling snapshot serengeti's impressive data set of labeled wildlife images caught the attention of researchers at deepmind they got in touch offering to train a computer vision algorithm that would automatically classify the thousands of photos taken by the camera traps identifying which particular species of gazelle for example appears in a photo it blows my mind how incredible ai can be for solving these kinds of problems i've had moments where i've looked at an image and had a computer identify a species i you know on first glance didn't even recognize was there so there's some animals that the ai is 99 on all of the time however if we don't have a lot of labeled images the algorithm doesn't do so well so there's a lot of these cryptic rare little species aardvarks cirillas servals janet's and when we only have a couple hundred images of those the computer can get a little wonky just because it doesn't know what to look for computer vision systems and pretty much all ai systems come to that are only as good as the data they're trained on which also explains why the ai sometimes struggles with those creatures at the top of the animal kingdom one issue that we discovered using human volunteers to classify our data is that people really really really want to see lions we've had images where it's a warthog sunning itself and our citizen scientists have very confidently classified that image as containing one very impressive male lion and no i'm sorry it's not it's a warthog we do have a lot of checks and balances for making sure that we're feeding the ai the very best labeled image data that we can but some of these things slip through the cracks the community of serengeti ecologists are already starting to see the benefits in their monitoring efforts tanzania used to have an enormous population of black rhinoceros but that has dwindled to fewer than a hundred 2019 nine black rhinoceros were reintroduced into the grameti game reserve a part of the serengeti ecosystem that is monitored by camera traps in conjunction with ai technology we'll be able to look at if migration routes change we'll also be able to document any impacts of new mega herbivore effects on the surrounding human communities we've documented several of the rhinoceros consorting with each other so we anticipate that we're probably going to have a couple of baby rhinoceros to look forward to in the next year or two for meredith the future is not for ai to replace ecologists but to complement them the way we've been doing ecology to date you know out there in the field with our binoculars and our notepads watching you know a single warthog all day like it's not fast enough and the more that we can get a helping hand from ai the faster we can identify the problems that are driving change in the ecosystem the more targeted conservation interventions that we can make to save and protect and rebuild these ecosystems [Music] we've heard how computer vision systems are being used to make sense of biology and wildlife on a vast scale but as we heard with alpha fold deepmind is also using ai to understand life at a microscopic scale back in the science lab researchers have been trying their hand at genomics an area of biology dedicated to understanding human genes and dna deep minds genomics work is still in its very early stages so what are push meet coley's hopes for the future of this research the implications could be very wide-ranging if you truly understand biology then you understand how all cells behave even cancer cells so you might have better treatment for cancer you might have better ways of creating new organs for transplantation what you're describing here really there is a potential step change in all of healthcare and medicine that is the implication of truly understanding biology we have in some sense been observing biology but to truly leverage biology that's something that humanity is only starting to understand the implications of so are you ready to get up to speed on a brand new bit of science i'm game if you are i started out life as a mathematician but when i was thinking about what to do i was wasn't so taken with the idea maybe of studying fluid flow down a pipe for three years no offense to to me which is exactly what i did sorry this is the delightful sarah jane dunn a research scientist working on the genomics project genomics it's a domain of biology and it's most interested in understanding the connection between your genotype that's basically your dna sequence and phenotype and that's everything from how tall you are to what color hair you have to maybe whether you have some particular disease or not genotype is what you see in the dna phenotype is what you get i have the mc1r genotype rs185005 which gives me the phenotype of red hair genotype cftr delta f508 gives the phenotype of cystic fibrosis those however are the examples where the connection between genotype and phenotype is clear and established unfortunately such examples are the exception rather than the rule take for example the bracha one gene which is linked to the development of breast cancer not all people with the braca one mutation will go on to develop breast cancer but there's currently no way of knowing which people with the gene are more at risk in some cases this has led some women with the bracha one gene to have surgery as a precaution the hope is that a deeper understanding of genomics may provide important additional context about what puts someone at increased risk or not if we could unpack more about how the rest of your dna sequence can tell us about the progression of that disease then we might be able to make more nuanced diagnoses about these kind of things and then projecting into the future how might you be able to change that before the disease actually develops how might you be able to to develop the most effective quick treatments those are all questions that are open to us after that [Music] research in genomics builds upon an important foundation known as the human genome project starting in 1990 the project took the full set of dna of one anonymous human their genome and over the course of a decade went through every molecule one by one every single one of the three billion chemical base pairs a t c and g that combine together to give some twenty 000 or so genes and a whole lot more besides thus providing the entire manual for how to make a human but in some ways this was just the starting point the human genome project successfully was able to compile this whole sort of cookbook for a human you have bought this book and there's a saying but you don't know how to read it that's what scientists are sort of struggling with you can think of the amazing human cookbook as a literal book by the way one of the early versions of the human genome project was printed and bound as part of an art project and it's stacked up as some 20 phone book size volumes where every page inside was a blur of a's t's c's and g's and therein lies part of the problem we still have very little idea about how much of it comes together to form the cells tissues and organs in the human body it is a list of ingredients but it's not in order and that's what we are trying to understand how do you decipher the actual sort of cooking process so you've got one end some flour eggs milk and a cow yeah and at the other end you've got a beef pie and you're like what the hell happened in between yeah exactly in humans only about two percent of our dna actually goes towards our genes the remaining 98 of those 20 odd phone books worth of biological instructions are what they officially call the non-coding region less officially biologists have referred to it as junk dna you know that shows how much we were interested in it but after the human genome project was completed it became obvious that this so-called junk dna was actually really important by now we know what some of the junk does some of it is structural stuff like the scaffolding needed for when a cell is working some of it is just random nonsense but a lot of it is on and off switches a series of regulators that tell genes when to get to work what's interesting is that you know all of the cells of your body share that genome but they make use of it in different ways and they do that by expressing some genes and not others every cell contains a complete copy of every gene but will only require a handful of genes to be active at any one time a gene that prompts cell division is no use in a tissue which has finished growing otherwise it could lead to a tumor a gene that is active in building hair or teeth has no role in the cells that make up the liver or the heart the hope in all this is that if you can understand the on and off switches as well as everything we already know about genes and proteins it can help biologists to better understand the mechanism by which certain diseases take hold in the body take for example sickle cell disease an inherited health condition affecting red blood cells there are of course certain signs of this disease in someone's phenotype if you look at the red blood cells under a microscope those that belong to someone with a disease will take on a characteristic shape like a crescent moon thanks to the human genome project we now also know that there are certain changes in the dna that are common among people with sickle cell anemia what's still unknown and where genomics can help is how that sequence of letters in someone's non-coding dna translates into how the disease will progress in individual cells if you're wanting to then understand how this disease actually arises in the body and then ultimately how you might treat it you need to go through these layers of information you need to understand well what does that change the dna sequence actually do within the cell does it mean that the cell can no longer express certain genes does this give us targets for what we might be able to attack in that cell to develop kind of drug treatments so it's about understanding from that very first clue about what might give someone a disease how it kind of bubbles up from that basic level of dna that is where ai and deep mind's work on genomics fits in there is some precedent here already scientists have a whole series of special cases where they've already cracked the connection between dna sequences and cell function these studies all serve as a solid foundation of biological data for deep minds 4a into genomics research we're trying to build ai that essentially can understand the genome the fact is we now have the kind of level of data where deep learning can really take hold and we've been able to build together the kind of deep learning models that are able to read a dna sequence a bit like you might read a piece of text as a first step in its genomics work deepmind is using a relatively new idea in the world of machine learning a type of architecture called a transformer it's useful to think of it as a sort of translator it reads in a string of letters from dna and based on the sequence of a's and t's and c's and g's it will translate it into a prediction for how the genes will actually manifest themselves to do language translation well you need to pay most attention to the key words in a sentence and the transformer uses the same idea applied to dna as it runs through the code it holds on to the most important parts of the sequence the bits that are most likely to provide the relevant bits of context and it pays less attention to all the filler bits the dna equivalent of all of the ands and the ins and the vers in a sentence you need more context to be able to make better and better predictions because some of the things that can influence what's happening are positioned further and further along the dna sequence and so the transformer architecture that we build is able to swallow in about 10 times as much of that dna sequence that's 10 times more of the dna sequence than previous ai models could read by being able to extend how much context the model had about the dna sequence we were able to increase the accuracy of our predictions about gene expression from sequence this all sounds pretty positive but before we make it sound like machine learning or ai is some sort of silver bullet for all problems in biology and science it's important to sound a note of caution too unfortunately there isn't a big button labeled machine learning in the corner where you can just gather any old data hit the button and get out great science to use ai effectively you have to ask the right question that for me is one of the biggest challenges to say okay i know that there's a big question in the field about how we can you know differentiate a progenitor cell into a heart cell because we'd like to be able to make them in the lab so that we can treat people with heart disease but how can you take something like that and then wield ai effectively it's being able to understand first of all what kind of question you should be asking and then what kind of architecture is going to be able to deal with those data but then also how do you know if your model's getting better or worse so it very much is still an area of research the other thing about using ai the sophisticated pattern hunter that it is is that it doesn't always give you a good answer for why those patterns appear do we have to be nervous about making predictions without really understanding the causal mechanisms yes i think so but it doesn't mean that these kind of tools aren't valuable the thing i like about ai is that it can allow us to handle some of the complexity that biology throws at us and often when we're dealing with biological data we're dealing with very noisy data and data that has been perturbed by just experimental error and so if we have the tools that can somehow surf over some of those bumps in the data and try to really pull out those meaningful patterns then the thing that we have to be really rigorous about is how we interpret it and it's not the only tool that should be deployed but if it gives us pointers in the right direction if it steps us forward that one piece then that is still valuable but it's all very well for computer scientists to turn up in some new scientific domain hoping to plant their flag as we've heard machine learning techniques like alpha fold and this genomics work build heavily on existing scientific data that is often obtained using painstaking experimental methods so how do other scientists respond when they hear that ai could be applied to their domain scientists are a very competitive bunch but they are very collaborative as well if they are convinced that the approach that you are proposing is an approach worth pursuing they are interested in listening to you have you ever struggled to persuade people though so when we started looking at applying machine learning and ai to pure mathematics we encountered a number of mathematicians who were very very keen and became really good collaborators but there were a few who on matters of principle thought that mathematics is a very human endeavor and a machine has no role to play in it i'm shocked personally i'm shocked that some pure mathematicians might not welcome the future with open arms you're probably wondering what that pure mathematics project was all about well the first thing that you need to know is that in pure mathematics proof reigns supreme someone might have a conjecture like there are an infinite number of prime numbers for instance but that means nothing until by a chain of logical statements it can be proven to be indisputably true for all eternity so what we were interested in is can a computer have that intuitive ability to propose a new conjecture what we started looking at with some of our sort of collaborators is about different aspects of not theory and topology which was suspected to have some interactions but nobody had sort of discovered those relationships not theory you will not be surprised to hear is all about the mathematical study of knots i know the name might not make it sound exciting but you're just gonna have to take my word for it on this one that the whole field is a glorious playground of bending and twisting loops of imaginary string there are different ways to describe these knots an algebraic way and a geometric way and it's quite hard to translate from one to the other but then ai started hunting for connections and that resulted in a new conjecture which had never been seen before and not only that the human mathematicians then managed to prove that conjecture so in some sense it's basically humans who are proving the conjectures that a computer has come up with did that persuade the grand pp or mathematicians i don't think we went back to them [Laughter] and that is just a flavor of some of the science applications that deepmind is currently hard at work on from ecology to genomics protein folding to nuclear fusion the ways in which ai could make a genuine difference to our lives in the near future are increasingly clear and there are so many more projects that we didn't have time to cover in this episode so if you'd like to find out more about the ai for science program do take a look at the show notes or check out deepmind.com in the next episode we'll continue to discover how the applications of ai could have an impact on the real world from weather prediction to voice synthesis i'm a mathematician author and podcaster who's fascinated by artificial intelligence it's really good i know it's good am i that breathy bloody hell you've been listening to deepmind the podcast i'm hannah fry and the series producer is dan hardoon at whistledown productions we'll be back soon

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: ZfJhOTZi0WE (https://youtu.be/ZfJhOTZi0WE) ===


do you remember where you were on the 30th of november 2020 probably not i'd imagine but that date sticks in my mind because i got a text from a friend and colleague geneticist adam rutherford it read have you seen the news the protein folding problem exclamation mark wow i thought they've only gone and done it [Music] in season one of this podcast i told the story of how the ai company deepmind was using artificial intelligence to take on a 50 year old grand challenge in biology now only a year later deepmind had unveiled an ai system called alpha fold that virtually solved the problem of predicting the 3d shapes of proteins the scientific world was full of excitement a headline in the journal nature declared this will change everything the president of the uk's royal society called it a stunning advance that had come decades before many in the field would ever have predicted and forbes dubbed it the most important achievement in ai ever [Music] i'm professor hannah fry i'm a mathematician and i have been following the developments in artificial intelligence for as long as i can remember in season two of deepmind the podcast i've gone back inside the lab to speak to countless researchers scientists and engineers about their work and i must say i've seen some pretty extraordinary things from robots that have taught themselves to walk around looks like it's a drunk robot to ais that can predict the weather it is important to know if there's going to be a buildup of a catastrophic storm and generate human sounding voices but it seemed only right to kick off the first episode with what is probably deepmind's biggest breakthrough so far coming up we are gonna hear the full story of alpha fault from the people who were in the room where it happened i remember sitting on the plane on the way home writing out well what are all the ideas that might actually work and just sitting there going this is amazing and this is terrifying we'll find out how alpha fold could rapidly accelerate the drug discovery process we got hundreds and hundreds of emails from excited biologists wanting to try out their system and paved the way for new discoveries i think it's woken up the scientific world to the possibility of what ai could do this is episode one a breakthrough unfolds one of those scientists who is paying particular attention to the alpha fold news is john mcgeehan professor of structural biology at portsmouth university the first time i saw the story about alpha fold i thought that can't be true because it's about two decades too early so i immediately started checking the details of this to make sure i was understanding it correctly i literally emailed deepmind and said we could really use this technology to see how much of a game changer john and the scientific world thinks the alpha fold breakthrough might be i want you to come with me on a trip to the bottom of the ocean every year somewhere between 8 to 12 million metric tons of plastic waste gets dumped into the oceans and john has made it his scientific mission to do something about it [Music] some of that plastic is used once sometimes just for minutes in the case of maybe a fizzy drinks bottle and if that enters the ocean some plastics last hundreds of years in that sort of environment what tends to happen is through sunlight and waves they break down but only into smaller and smaller pieces and they end up being microplastics wildlife consumed this plastic it ends up in our food chain and i think we're only just starting to understand the potential impact there might just be a twinkling ray of hope on the horizon in march 2016 a japanese research group announced in the journal science that they discovered a species of bacteria that could break the molecular bonds of one of the world's most used plastics polyethylene terephthalate also known as p-e-t or polyester p-e-t is found in products from fizzy drink bottles to textiles john's collaborator in the u.s greg beckham instantly spotted the potential of this discovery and gave him a call and he said this japanese group has literally found a bacterium living in a plastic waste dump that is digesting plastic it's actually using the plastic as a food source we had to figure out how these enzymes worked and if we could make them faster because the potential here is if you can break down plastic into its building blocks then suddenly you can recycle it infinitely we'll find out exactly how john mcginn and his team are using alpha fold to help fight plastic pollution a bit later on but for now because alpha fold predicts the 3d structures of proteins it's helpful to find out a bit more about how proteins work in the human body we'll make it lots of fun i promise because proteins are truly fascinating things proteins are these incredibly small machines that are extraordinarily unusual for the way that we think of machines but they do the kind of mechanical and chemical things that the cell needs to let me introduce you to john jumper who leads the alpha fold project the human cell has about 20 000 of these nano machines and people make entire careers explaining the function of one of these proteins proteins are the workforce behind practically everything that happens within the human body you'll find them in our immune system antibodies are a type of protein we release that can fight bacteria and viruses the protein insulin is what allows our bodies to absorb glucose proteins even work to shepherd other molecules around the body as in the case of one particularly famous protein hemoglobin is a protein whose job it is to carry oxygen within your red blood cells your lungs are extracting that from the air but then it needs to be carried throughout the body and so it is attached to this hemoglobin protein which later releases it where it's needed and yet these powerful naturally occurring machines are made from only a small list of building blocks all the machines that we have in kind of the normal natural world are really really complex and the proteins they have this lovely kind of modular system where there's 20 types of amino acids and a protein in its simplest form is just a line of these amino acids these 20 amino acids tiny molecules made up of a handful of atoms are the building blocks of all human proteins to make a protein these amino acids are strung together in a sort of miniature cellular factory called the ribosome how about an analogy like one of those bracelet kits my daughter has one right and she wants to spell her name sarah so she grabs the s and she puts it on the line she grabs the a she puts it on the line she'll surely grab a heart and put it on the line in the same sort of way you have beads in a line or these amino acids that are attached one at a time and when it's done the protein leaves the ribosome within milliseconds the forces of physics gently tease the line of amino acids into intricate 3d shapes which give function to the protein and allows them to work as miniature machines you can think of it like origami a blank piece of paper might hold all manner of potential but it only becomes meaningful once it's folded into shape the 1d shape the line isn't so good at telling us how these machines work how we can build new ones they really need to assemble into this intricate 3d shape that we can start to reason about seeing a structure is really the beginning of explaining why the protein is that way how it misfunctions how we might be able to develop drugs but it's extraordinarily difficult to get this kind of information [Music] most drugs work by binding to a particular protein in a specific way beta blockers stop the protein receptors from noticing the adrenaline floating past antibiotics work by interfering with a bacteria's protein this is partly why understanding the shape of a folded protein is so important so what do folded proteins look like well these things are tiny it's not like you could just look at them down a microscope to see what shape they are at that scale they might as well be invisible to work out the structure you normally have to use something called x-ray crystallography first of all you have to express your protein so you need to coax a bacterium into producing enough of it for your experiments here's catherine tunis awanagan a senior research scientist then you have to be able to get it out of the cell in sufficient quantities then you need to get it to form crystals which is often the most difficult part and when you say the most difficult part yeah are we talking weeks it's very variable so if you happen to be working with a protein that's really well studied it can be a very quick process if it's something that's never been crystallized before it can take years so i've had emails from people who said you know we've worked on this for 10 years we can't even make enough of the stuff to start our experiments that's an extreme case but it can be as bad as that [Music] for the last 50 years numerous scientists have dedicated their entire working lives to painstakingly uncovering the intricate structure of proteins one at a time slowly and surely building a collective body of knowledge but finding a shortcut getting from the string of amino acids straight to the folded protein has long been considered one of the grandest challenges in biology [Music] at some point in those intervening decades in a pub in cambridge denis asabus the man who would go on to co-found deep mind first heard about the protein folding problem as an undergrad one of my friends was obsessed with this problem and we used to go to the pub and almost any situation he would crowbar in the idea of like if we solve protein folding that would unlock all the biology back in those days no one had quite managed to get computers to reliably predict how a general protein might fold you could do it for tiny proteins where the physics equations were tractable but any larger and there were too many variables but that didn't put demis off from wanting to have a go there was this game called foldit people were playing a game to fold proteins and making some progress they were not trained biologists they were gamers they were able to find two or three protein structures that were actually published in nature they were actually quite big breakthroughs so then finally when we did alphago i thought well if we're able to mimic the intruder process of a go player then why couldn't we do what these folded players were doing for folding proteins in 2016 before the team had even caught the flight home after alphago's victory demis was already eyeing up the next big challenge for ai to work on protein folding i'm sure we can do that his conversation with alphago's lead researcher david silva was captured by a film crew that followed them down a street in seoul where the match had taken place it's just amazing seeing how quickly a problem that is seen as being impossible and changed to being continuously done we consult protein folding there were good reasons for thinking that an ai approach might work it's a very interesting problem in the sense that it has a very large search space push me kohli leads deepmind's science team the space of possible structures is just infinite and yet it has definite patterns hiding within one of the things that makes this problem great is the process is extremely repeatable and specific the sequence makes the structure but it's also so complex that we don't know how to write it down specifically but we know how to write down a machine that if you show it enough data we'll learn these something else that made protein folding suitable for ai was the decades of work by experimental biologists to find the structures of proteins one by one it meant an ai could peak at the back of the textbook to learn how the patterns worked and much like in the game of go protein faulting came with a ready-made way to measure how well the algorithm was performing for nearly three decades there has been a regular global competition amongst biologists who use computers to fold proteins it's called the critical assessment of protein structure prediction or casp the way it works is you take a set of 100 proteins where you're challenged to say i've got the sequence what does the structure look like professor john molt co-founded the casp competition in 1994 and to all work on those hundred in parallel as a community and now you can compare results the accuracy of a protein fold prediction in casp is measured using the global distance test or gdt you take a visual sketch of the true folded protein and then superimpose the calculated competition entries on top of it the more amino acids that end up roughly where they should be the higher the score it's on a scale of 0 to 100 where 100 would be exact agreement with the experimental structure so if you get to something like 90 then you're arguing with the experimentalists whether your model is better than his structure deepmind set up a new team with the task of building an ai model that could predict how a protein will fold from its amino acid sequence it was led by john jumper how far away did you think success was at the very beginning i wouldn't say that we were sure of success there was always this feeling that it's complex but there's no rule that it can't be understood but i would say it was absolutely unclear that we were going to be able to build it i have always been one of the skeptics on the team i sort of expected maybe 15 years from now we would have a system like this and also i think in biology there is quite a bit of skepticism often about computational methods we think of experiment as being the last word and it can be an uphill struggle to convince a biologist that a computational method is really going to help them the first version of alpha fold is the one we talked about in season one of this podcast the team repurposed an ai technique normally used for image analysis so that it could work out which beads or amino acids should be positioned close to each other in the final protein then the model crunched through the different structures that could possibly fit it seemed to work pretty well although it was slow and it took a lot of computational power in april 2018 deepmind entered alphafold into the cast competition for the first time before the results were released one member of team alpha fold tried to predict how well they had done he had run the numbers and by his results we were 20th it was a one of the more depressing moments of my career finding out that after all this effort we weren't even close to the top we had a meeting where we very seriously saying okay are we going to solve this problem or should we be doing something else that we can solve well give up was that really on the table that was absolutely i would say as a scientist my job is to find a place to be useful you're always saying do i want to spend my time in this direction or do i want to go in a different direction but let's not get ahead of ourselves here there was just a small issue with that prediction that alpha fold had come in 20th place at casp we found out that we just computed it wrong we just done the math wrong at least you did the math right when it was important on the actual algorithm we get the right answer eventually in actual fact alpha fold came top in casp that year it was a strong result but it was still very far from giving the experimental methods a run for their money as well as being painfully slow the first version of alpha fold achieved 58.9 as its average gdt score remember you need to be getting over 90 to have a structure that would be considered true to the real folded protein after the casp win deepmind decided to redouble their efforts we tried to improve the caste system and it was giving us some minimal performance improvements but we were nowhere close to making the jump that we wanted and then there was a breakthrough alpha fold 2 started by throwing away everything that had come before the data fed in was almost entirely unchanged but the repurposed image recognition system was gone replaced by an ai that had been redesigned from the ground up just to understand protein folding [Music] but how much better was this new and improved version of alpha fold really in 2020 the alpha fault team prepared to enter the next casp competition keeping a close eye on its score gdt has gotten better i think we're making incredibly fast progress and i think we'll continue to i think it's an important within our meetings we went through this tradition where we would play a song from the year that corresponded to our gdt and so if we were at gdt80 we would play a song from 1980 or something like that and everyone's just like when we get to the spice girls we know it's okay absolutely and i don't think we ever did get to the spice girls either because that would be 97 or so what did you get to 1990 mc hammer something like that we would have these running sweepstakes predicting what would be the accuracy of alpha fold who won the sweepstake i am not going to tell you who won the sweepstakes or what was my prediction but did you go live at some points i did follow whether the type of accuracy we are seeing today was possible was a completely open question we would have these meetings with demis and everyone would think well demis is going to push our target even higher and they were not really sure if that was possible [Music] i just felt that all the ingredients meant there should be a solution to this and i also believe the original biologists who said 50 years ago that this should be possible in may 2020 the new casp competition kicked off online nearly a hundred groups around the world submitted their predictions for 90 protein targets once team alpha fold had submitted their predictions they faced an agonizing wait for the results to be verified but after a month or so i got this email from john malt the founder of casp and it had a title i think it was zoom request you're not going to turn down that zoom are you no and so we dialed in to a pre-existing team social and john just said i'm going to read you an email it is from john malt as i expect you know your group has performed amazingly well in casp 14 both relative to other groups and an absolute model accuracy it didn't tell us our exact score but it did tell us the method seemed to be an outstanding one how did the rest of the social go did you get to crack out the champagne fantastically well yes i was drinking some bourbon and we were swapping lots of reminiscences and stories oh and the final scoring casp an average of 92.4 across all targets here's kasp's founder john molt to be able to fold up single proteins to this atomic accuracy is a really amazing and satisfying thing as we originally framed the problem this is a solution but in many ways it's just a start after cast 14 we got hundreds and hundreds of emails from excited biologists wanting to try out their system and use it for particular problems we did pick out a few cases where we thought alpha fold was really going to make an impact one of those early users of alpha fault was john mcgeehan whose work on plastic pollution we heard about at the beginning of this episode to understand how alpha fold is helping john and his colleagues it's important to appreciate that those plastic eating enzymes that could help clean up our oceans are in fact proteins they're non-living proteins that break chemical bonds and you know if you just had lunch or dinner they'll be working in your stomach at the moment digesting all those different carbohydrates into sugars the enzymes we're interested in work in the same way but they actually start breaking down plastics [Music] when that group of japanese scientists discovered an enzyme that could digest pet plastic john and his team set about trying to understand how it worked on a molecular level currently we dig up oil and gas and we distill from those the chemical building blocks for plastics and we stick those together in long chains what the enzyme does is do the opposite of that it comes along like a big pair of molecular scissors and cuts those bonds and then gives you back those building blocks we know there is at least one enzyme that can break down one specific type of plastic by looking through the database of sequenced proteins the scientists found a bunch of others that look like they might work in a similar way for other plastics but to make any progress they really needed to see how they are folded and structured in three dimensions and understand how they might work to eat chains of plastic polymers solving all these structures takes an awful long time we've got 100 enzymes sitting there all needing structures and each structure takes maybe six months sometimes even a year depending how tricky it is 100 enzymes any of which could have gigantic potential for our planet sat in a queue waiting for months or years to have their structure worked out without knowing what they look like there is little hope of designing synthetic versions that could work better and faster than the one discovered in japan and this is where alpha fold comes in john mcgeehan sent deepmind seven enzymes of interest two of which his team had already solved the structure for rather spectacularly in a couple of days they came back and the first thing i did was to compare the structures that we already knew to what they'd predicted and they're almost perfect actually not only did it get the three-dimensional fold right it got all the positions of where all those key atoms are in the structure correct as well alpha fold is now in the process of resolving 100 enzymes that we've chosen but it needn't stop there we could look at thousands of enzymes and that's incredibly exciting because this will massively accelerate the development of enzymes for different plastic recycling beyond tackling plastic pollution the alpha fold team were well aware that there were other scientists like those working in drug discovery who would find this new tool useful another organization that was an early beneficiary of alpha fold is the drugs for neglected diseases initiative an international non-profit dedicated to developing new treatments for neglected tropical diseases these are a group of preventable infectious diseases that really affect 1.7 billion people dr monique wasuna is the dndi's regional director based in nairobi over the years she has treated many people suffering from parasitic diseases but one patient stands out in her mind from her time as a junior doctor in kenya this particular middle aged man had been unwell for many months and he was just really getting weaker and weaker so he had about our team that was extensioned many many miles away and he took a walk day and night for five good days the patient had been infected with leash moniesis a parasitic disease found mainly in eastern africa parts of the americas and the middle east symptoms start within a couple of weeks of being bitten by a female sand fly you start having a fever your guns might start swelling your liver your spleen and in the end if you're not treated you die the most deadly form visceral leachmaniasis poses a risk to 600 million people worldwide and causes an estimated 20 to 40 000 deaths a year these patients survived but how many patients like him will die and nobody knows that they have died of flesh manages it is possible to treat leash menialisis but you need a long painful course of drugs over 17 days and that can come with severe side effects they are toxic they damage your liver your kidneys we have to keep the faith because we haven't gotten the ultimate treatment typically neglected tropical diseases don't get on the radar for pharmaceutical companies because there's no market incentive for them charles mobrey leads dndi's drug discovery effort from geneva the needs of these patients are huge they deserve better treatments the way people living in wealthy countries benefit from the advances in modern medicine charles and his colleagues are looking for monique's ultimate treatment a drug that can kill leash mania parasites can be easily administered in the field and does not cause serious side effects it's an expensive and time-consuming process so dndi have had to rely on a more pragmatic way of finding new drug treatments for neglected diseases can we find drug molecules that will kill a parasite in a test tube that initial starting point requires that we screen hundreds of thousands of molecules to find just one that has some of the right properties in short it's a bit of a stab in the dark there is also no guarantee that a molecule that can kill a parasite in a test tube will work inside a human so instead in recent decades scientists have opted for a different approach rather than testing for drug molecules that kill a bug we can think about carefully designing molecules that interfere very specifically with a process in that bug but don't interfere with any related processes in the human imagine you'd worked out that there was one particular protein that was vital to the parasite if you knew the three-dimensional structure of that protein you could explore how different drug molecules might disable it the parasites protein is like an intricately designed three-dimensional lock covered in cavities and holes the drug molecules need to act like a key filling in the spaces and blocking the protein from functioning understanding how best to design that key is a lot easier if you can just see everything on a computer screen rather than have to infer it from laborious experiments you can see where the cavities are and you could bring a molecule up and you could see how does it fit into that cavity and this is where alpha fold comes in particularly useful rather than waiting months or years for an experimental method to come up with a protein structure that may or may not be important in a disease alpha fold can offer a shortcut [Music] here's catherine tanya sawanakan again so it basically changes the situation from not using structural information waiting several years for the experiments to be finished and now we have this middle way of well i can get some actionable structural information within 10-15 minutes oh wow i mean that's massive yeah it's a huge saving in the case of leash moniesis scientists had already identified a drug molecule that is effective at killing the parasite in a test tube unfortunately they reached a dead end when it came to adapting this molecule into a usable drug treatment so they worked backwards first they tried to work out what part of the parasite this drug molecule appeared to be targeting and in the process they were able to pinpoint a novel protein that seems critical to stopping the leash mania parasite in its tracks so if that protein is shut down the parasite can't continue it will die it's not like other proteins that we've looked at as targets for leash monasis so that's exciting the other exciting thing about this particular protein is that it looks like it's not unique to leash mania parasites similar proteins are found in the parasites that cause other infectious diseases you can see how powerful this quickly becomes how the structure of proteins can potentially open the door to drugs that are effective for multiple diseases we could be cutting years off the timeline this is the power of knowing about the structure and if using alpha fold predictions we can get to that starting point quicker it will help us pick the right projects and move them more quickly the hope is that if alpha fold can do this for charles it will do the same for scientists working on all kinds of important problems around the world and so in july 2021 deepmind took the step of publicly releasing the structures of all 20 000 proteins found in humans as well as several other organisms commonly used in labs around the world everything from worms and fruit flies to rats and tuberculosis in time the team aims to fold and release all 100 million of the proteins ever discovered for free for anyone to use to accelerate the work of scientists but before this major release a lot of careful thinking went into reviewing the risks of doing so what if for example alpha folds insights into protein structure were used by a bad actor to design a rogue protein say we carried out a full review of this because of something we we're concerned about sasha brown from the ethics team was involved in the process of sharing alpha fold with the world we were trying to understand will the release of alpha fold help the creation of new bio weapons or increase the potency of current known ones and the view we got from experts was that the likelihood of protein folds being used in this manner was small because non-specialists face several barriers to enhancing and synthesizing harmful proteins and they're more likely to use readily available materials in other words if someone is intent on committing an act of bioterrorism there are currently much easier ways to do it than getting to grips with the biochemistry of protein folding it wouldn't remove any bottlenecks to using bioweapons at the level that alpha fold is currently while it's hoped that the alpha fold database release will now accelerate the work of scientists around the world there is another important point worthy of mention here alpha fold doesn't provide a perfect dictionary that can translate between protein sequences and folded shape it's only offering a prediction the results of cass put it very well here's john jumper again of the predictions we made about two-thirds were at a quality bar they considered competitive with experiment so that means one-third they're pretty sure that we have deficiencies although typically small ones and so it's very important to us how do we make sure we're doing more good than harm there are many reasons why alpha folds prediction might be uncertain some proteins have never been seen before others might have strange disordered shapes and so on so the alpha fault team have built in a way for the model to put a number on its confidence in its prediction of a given protein shape alpha fold predicts the score it would have got for that protein had it been part of the original caste competition here's pushmi kohli to explain it's very good at that uncertainty estimation it's not shy in saying i don't know which is i think a good thing install the humility package essentially when alpha fold solved one problem it opened up a whole new world of questions and possibilities for science it's very important to note that it does not solve protein understanding writ large in terms of making sense of how do proteins operate so the community has appreciated the breakthrough that has been made but also at the same time there is a lot more work that needs to be done in many ways alpha fold is just the beginning of demonstrating how ai can be used to advance scientific discovery and in fact it isn't just proteins that deepmind is working on researchers are also successfully applying machine learning to other areas of science including genomics chemistry nuclear fusion mathematics and ecology in episode 6 of this podcast we'll be exploring some of those projects in more detail trust me you won't want to miss it but deep mind say they have a bigger mission of solving intelligence so i want to end this episode by asking how alpha fold fits in with that does alpha fold have any of the hallmarks of intelligence i mean what is intelligence oh that's a whole kind of worms yeah exactly and as a former worm researcher i know worms right so this is very much a can of worms here we're talking about intelligence in terms of being able to accomplish a specific task that humans can't do so it's something that is a superhuman ability it is very good at learning from the existing structures that we have but i wouldn't call that artificial intelligence necessarily because that term generally refers to something that is more of a generalist whereas i see elf fold as a specialist [Music] i think it's really important to remember that these are really powerful techniques that we've developed that are still far short of a real artificial intelligence that you can talk about thinking and making decisions and everything else [Music] if you think our fold isn't intelligent how does it fit in with that broader goal of deep mind towards solving intelligence this is an example of how we work on these really hard problems that stretch us and how do we develop new ideas and techniques and then think about which of those will pull back into the core mission which of those take us one step closer to general intelligence over the next four episodes of this podcast we'll be taking an in-depth look at that core mission building artificial general intelligence or agi starting with the big push to give machines the ability to communicate with humans me what's my worst feature model you're going to get upset if i tell you [Music] deepmind the podcast was presented by me hannah fry it was written by me and dan hardoon who is the series producer if you've enjoyed this episode please subscribe to the podcast and leave us a rating or review if you can bye for now

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: gg7WjuFs8F4 (https://youtu.be/gg7WjuFs8F4) ===


We've discovered more about the world
than any other civilization before us. But we have been stuck
on this one problem. How do proteins fold up? How do proteins go from a string
of amino acids to a compact shape that acts as a machine and drives life? When you find out about
proteins it is very exciting. You can think of them as
little biological nanomachines. They are essentially the
fundamental building blocks that power everything
living on this planet. If we can reliably predict
protein structures using AI, that could change the way
we understand the natural world. Protein folding is one of these
holy grail type problems in biology. We've always hypothesized
that AI should be helpful to make these kinds of big scientific
breakthroughs more quickly. And I'll probably be looking at little
tunings that might make a difference. It should be creating a distagram one
and a background distagram one. We've been working on our system AlphaFold
really hard now for over two years. Rather than having to do
painstaking experiments, in the future biologists might be able
to instead rely on AI methods to directly predict structures
quickly and efficiently. Generally speaking, biologists tend to be
quite skeptical of computational work. And I think that skepticism
is healthy and I respect it, but I feel very excited about
what AlphaFold can achieve. CASP (Critical Assessment of Protein Structure Prediction) is when we say,
look DeepMind is doing protein folding. This is how good we are. Maybe it's better than everyone else,
maybe it isn't. We decided to enter the CASP competition because it represented
the Olympics of protein folding. CASP, we started to try and speed up the
solution to the protein folding problem. When we started CASP in 1994, I certainly was naive about
how hard this was going to be. It was very cumbersome to do that
because it took a long time. Let's see, what are we
doing still to improve? Typically a hundred different groups from
around the world participate in CASP. And we take a set of a hundred proteins, and we ask the groups to send us
what they think the structures look like. We can reach 57.9 GDT
on CASP12 ground truth. CASP has a metric on which you
will be scored, which is this GDT metric. On a scale of zero to a hundred,
you would expect a GDT over 90 to be a solution
to the problem. If we do achieve this,
this has incredible medical relevance. The implications are immense. From how diseases progress. How you can discover new drugs.
It's endless. Well I wanted to make
a really simple system, and the results have
been surprisingly good. The team got some results
with a new technique. Not only is it more accurate,
but it's much faster than the old system. I think we'll substantially exceed
what we're doing right now. Well, then it's a game changer, I think. In CASP13, something very significant
had happened. For the first time we saw the effective
application of artificial intelligence. We've advanced the state of the art
in the field, so that's fantastic, but we still got a long way
to go before we've solved it. The shapes were now approximately
correct for many of the proteins but the details,
exactly where each atom sits, which is really what one would
call a solution were not yet there. It doesn't help if you have the tallest
ladder when you're going to the moon. We hit a little bit of a brick wall,
since we won CASP, then it was back to the drawing board
and like what are our new ideas. And then it's taken them
a little while, I would say for them to get to where they were
but with the new ideas. And then now I think we're seeing
the benefits of the new ideas. They can go further, right? So that's a really important moment. I've seen that moment so many times now.
I know what that means now. And I know this is the time
now to press. We need to double down and go
as fast as possible from here. I think we've got no time to lose. So the intention is to enter CASP again. CASP is deeply stressful. There's something weird
going on with the learning, because It is learning something
that's correlated with GDT, but it's not calibrated. I feel slightly uncomfortable.
We should be learning this you know in the blink of an eye. The technology advancing outside
DeepMind is also doing incredible work. There's always the possibility
another team has come somewhere out of left field
that we don't even know about. Someone asked me,
"Well, should we panic now?" Of course, we should
have been panicking before. It does seem to do better,
but still doesn't do quite as well as the best model. So it looks like there's room
for improvement. There's always a risk
that you've missed something, and that's why blind assessments
like CASP are so important to validate whether our results are real. Obviously, I'm excited
to see how CASP14 goes. My expectation is we get
our heads down, we focus on the full goal which is to solve
the whole problem. The Prime Minister has announced
the most drastic limits to our lives that the UK has
ever seen in living memory. I must give the British people
a very simple instruction, you must stay at home. We were prepared for CASP
to start on April 15th, because that's when it was
originally scheduled to start. And it's been delayed
by a month due to coronavirus. I really miss everyone. And I struggled a little bit just
kind of getting into a routine especially with my wife,
she came down with the virus. I mean, luckily it didn't turn
out to be serious. CASP started on Monday. Can I just check this diagram
you've got here, John. This one where we ask ground truth.
Is this one we've done badly on? We're actually quite good on this region. If you imagine that
we hadn't had said it came around this way,
but had put it in the right spot. Yeah, there instead, yeah. One of the hardest proteins
we've gotten in CASP thus far is a SARS-CoV-2 protein called ORF8. ORF8 is a coronavirus protein. We tried really hard
to improve our prediction. Like really, really hard.
Probably the most time we have ever spent on a single target. So we're about two-thirds
of the way through CASP, and we've gotten three answers back. We now have a ground truth for ORF8,
which is one of the coronavirus proteins. And it turns out we did
really well in predicting that. It's an amazing job everyone,
the whole team. It's been an incredible effort. Here what we saw in CASP14 was a group
delivering atomic accuracy off the bat. Essentially solving what
in our world is two problems. How do you look to find
the right solution, and then how do you recognize you've got
the right solution when you're there. All right. Are we mostly here? I'm going to read an email. I got this from John Moult. And I'll just read it. It says,
"John, as I expect you know, your group has performed
amazingly well in CASP14. Both relative to other groups
and in absolute model accuracy. Congratulations on this work.
It is really outstanding." AlphaFold represents a huge leap
forward that I hope will really accelerate drug discovery
and help us to better understand disease. It's pretty mind blowing. You know these results were for me,
having worked on this problem so long after many, many stops and starts
and will this ever get there, suddenly this is a solution. We've solved the problem. This gives you such excitement
about the way science works. About how you can never see exactly or even approximately,
what's going to happen next. There are always these surprises. And that really as a scientist
is what keeps you going. What's going to be the next surprise?

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: KpedmJdrTpY (https://youtu.be/KpedmJdrTpY) ===


Inside every cell of your body, billions 
of tiny machines are hard at work.   They carry oxygen in your blood, let your eyes detect light  and even make your muscles move.   These machines are proteins  and they underpin every 
biological process in every living thing.   Each protein has an intricate 3d shape that 
defines what it does and how it works.  We know of  over 200 million proteins 
and counting.   But we only know the exact 3D shapes
of a fraction of these.   Unravel a protein and you'll see it's like a 
string of beads  made up of 20 different types 
of amino acids.  Interactions between these amino acids
make the protein fold    as it finds its shape out of almost 
limitless possibilities.    For decades a community of 
scientists have been working on a   way to figure out a protein shape 
just from its string of amino acids.  This is a major challenge in our
understanding of biology So, we created an AI system
to solve this problem...   called AlphaFold.  It's trained on the sequences and structures of 
about a hundred thousand proteins  painstakingly  mapped out 
by scientists around the world. Today it can accurately predict 
a protein's shape...   just from its sequence of amino acids.   AlphaFold's predictions could 
enable progress in all sorts of areas. Imagine a future where we 
can understand diseases more quickly...   and develop drugs to fight them. Or one where we could use enzymes
to break down plastic waste... or even to capture carbon from the 
atmosphere.   All with the help of proteins. There's a lot more work to be done  but unlocking the shapes 
of these building blocks    could help scientists 
better understand the natural world... and perhaps expand our 
knowledge of life itself.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: MhNcWxUs-PQ (https://youtu.be/MhNcWxUs-PQ) ===


Hi, my name is Chongi Chen and welcome to today's lecture on responsible innovation and artificial intelligence. So today's talk will be split into two parts. Um for the first part I'll be going over some of the research um which has been done to ensure that the machine learning algorithms we develop satisfy desirable specifications such that during deployment it is safe reliable and trustworthy for use. Um in the second half Yasslin will dive into further details of the ethical implication of machine learning algorithms and more importantly how we can be thinking about designing these algorithms and deploying these algorithms such that it is beneficial to society. So to start I want to give a quick motivation into why we as machine learning researchers should be thinking about both research and our responsibilities. So with all of the re great research which has happened over the past several decades, machine learning algorithms are becoming increasingly powerful. There has been a lot of breakthroughs in this field and today I'll just mention a few. So one of the earlier breakthroughs was using convolutional neuronet networks to boost the accuracy of image classification. And more recently we now have generative models that is capable of generating images with higher fidelity and realism. We've also seen breakthroughs in biology um where now machine learning algorithms is capable of generating or folding proteins to unprecedented level of accuracy. Um indeed the recent alpha fold system won the CASP last CAS CASP competition um which is a protein folding competition on folding unknown protein structures later crystallized for validation. We've also seen machine learning and reinforcement learning systems that is now capable of beating humans in games such as Go. And more recently we've seen machine learning algorithms um pushing the boundaries of language with the recent GPT2 and three models. We've seen that these models is not only capable of generating text which is grammatically correct but really demonstrated that they are grounded in the real world. So as the saying goes with great power comes great responsibility. And I think now it is more important than ever for us to question what might be the negative impacts and risks of all of this and more importantly what can we do to mitigate for these risks to highlight why we need to start thinking about these risks. I want to start with a few examples starting with this one um which some of you are already may be familiar with. So this is a paper published in 2013 titled intriguing properties of neuronet networks. They probably used the adjective intriguing because whatever it is that they have found in this paper was a little bit unexpected. So what did they find? Well, what they found is that you can take a state of the car state-of-the-art image classifier like here and you can give it an image like the one you see of a panda here. And indeed, this classifier can correctly predict this as a panda. So what happens now if I take the exact same image add on the tiniest bit of partation to this image so tiny that it is imperceptible to the human eye and you can see this that the left picture and the right picture looks almost exactly the same. In fact they do look the same. So what happens now when you put this new image through this neuronet network we would actually expect the output of the neuronet network to be the same. but rather when you put this new image through this neuronet network the the the network is now almost 100% confident that this is in fact a given. So in this instance maybe mclassifying a panda for a gibbon um does not have too many consequences but actually we can choose the partation to make the output of the network to be whatever it is we want to be. We can change this to a bird to a vehicle. If such a classifier was used for say an autonomous driving system, this can have catastrophic consequences. Some other machine learning failure modes might be slightly more subtle. There has been some studies on the recent GPT2 model where they have shown that this model might be carrying some of the biases that exist in society today. So in this paper titled the woman worked as a babysitter on the biases in language generation what they did was a systematic study on how the model behaved conditioned on different demographic groups. For example, if the prompt was changed from the man worked as to the woman worked as the subsequent generated text drastically changes in flavor and may be heavily prejudiced. similarly to the black man worked as versus the white man worked as. And I want everyone to take a few seconds to read the generated text after we change the subject of the prompt. As you can see, even though this language is extremely powerful, it does carry some of the biases we have in society today. And if this is a model that is used for something say like autocomp completion of text, it can further exacerbate and feed into the biases that we already have. Yason will go later into details of the ethical risks of how we can use machine learning for example using machine learning in surveillance systems or or for weapons. So I think at this point we should really be asking this question. What are our responsibilities as machine learning practitioners? So this is of course an open question and possibly with no single right answer. But I see one of our responsibilities would be to ensure that the machine learning algorithms we deliver satisfy desirable specifications. In other words, we should have a level of quality control over these algorithms to enable their deployment to be safe, reliable, and trustworthy. And if we get this right with the with this we can bring many more opportunities, many more applications enabled. For example, more reliable and safe autonomous driving systems, more robust ways of forecasting weather for renewable energy, etc., etc. But for all of this to be possible, we really need to know how to stringently test for machine learning algorithms. So how can we make sure that our machine learning algorithms are safe for deployment? Well, like how many other algorithms are quality control before deployment, we need to ensure that they satisfy desirable specifications. For example, for image classifier, we want it to be robust to perturbations. If it's a dynamical systems p predictor, we would like it to satisfy the laws of physics. We want it to be robust to feature changes that is irrelevant for prediction. For example, the color of the emnest digit should not affect your digit classification. If we're training on sensitive data, it should be differentially private. If we're giving our neuronet network images out of distribution, our neuronet network should be become more more uncertain, not more more certain. So these are just a few specifications that we would like our neuronet networks to ideally satisfy but there are many more. So here I want to introduce the paradigm of specificationdriven machine learning. So what do I mean by specificationdriven machine learning? Well, we should realize the core issue lies when you're training with limited data. Your model can learn a lot of spirious correlations to boost metrics but has nothing to do with prediction. So unfortunately what this means is that your model is ultimately hinged on the data and the metric. So unless you do your training carefully your model can inherit a lot of undesirable properties that is in the data unless you specify otherwise. So in this instance if the data is biased and limited then your model is to be biased and non-recify otherwise. So in specificationdriven ML we want to enforce the specifications that may or may not be present in the data but essential for our systems to be reliable. So how we can enforce these specifications will be the subject of the rest of my talk. So I want to start with a specification that is relatively well studied and um one which I have already kind of touched upon. Um that is the robustness of our neuronet network to partations or adversarial partations. Um so this specification is really essential if we want to deploy our networks to applications that require robustness or for applications that has real adversaries in the mix. So to formalize I first want to reiterate what it is we want to achieve. So we want our image classifier output to be unchanged under any additive imperceptible partations. So to define this more mathematically let's start with a few notations. So here we denote the neuronet network as a function f and this function takes in as inputs an image which is your panda otherwise denoted by x. Um parameters of your network denoted by theta and the output of this neuronet network should be a probability vector over your labels or more commonly the logarithms of probability vector otherwise known as logits. So ideally ideally we would like our neuronet network's output to be exactly the same as the label. So in this case it's what we know to be a panda but we actually express this to be in a one hot format vector where the element corresponding where the element um corresponding to the label is one and elements corresponding to all other labels to be zero. So now we have um our notation set out. Let's go straight into the specification. So this is the adversarial robustness specification. I know this is a lot to take in one page. So I will try to break this down a little bit. So firstly we note that the delta here denotes the partation. And what this equality is simply saying is that we want the index of the maximum probability um in the probability vector outputed by the neuronet network to be exactly where the one is in our one hot one hot vector. So this is a very convoluted way of saying we want our neuronet network's output to be correct subject under this um partation. And now the second line says we want this to be true for all partibations within the set of imperceptible partations. So in practice to ensure imperceptibility we simply constrain the size of the partation under a certain norm ball to be less or equal to epsilon. So the norm ball normally considered is the L infinity norm. So now we have the specification designed. I want to go into a little bit bit more detail of um one of the more commonly used meth methodologies to train our neuronet networks to satisfy this specification and that is uh adversarial training. So adversarial training is very similar to standard image classification training um but with a tiny bit of a twist. Um so indeed with standard im image classification training what ideally we would like to do is we want to optimize um our network's weights such that the input image is correctly classified. Um so in this instance you see the input image is a cat and thus we want the output prediction of this neuronet network to be a cat as well. Algorithmically what this means is that we want to minimize the weights of our network with respect to with with respect to expected loss um over our data. So the loss normally considered is the cross entropy loss and here capital D denotes our data. What this um loss ensures is that um our prediction our predicted um probability vector to be as close as possible to the label. So now adversarial training does something very similar except with an extra data augmentation step. So here, not only do we want the original image to be correctly labeled as a cat, we want the image now with any additive imperceptible partations to also be correctly labeled as a cat as well. So in practice to iterate through all of the imperceptible partations is obviously computationally infeasible. So instead what adveris training tries to do is it tries to find the worst case partation. So what I mean here by the worst case partation is simply the partation that maximizes the difference between the prediction and the label. So I want to reiterate this again to make this a little bit clearer. We want to maximize the prediction the difference between the prediction and the label with respect to the perturbation which is actually image space not in parameter space. So now how does the objective of um the adversarial training change. Well this is now the object the the objective of the adversarial training and you can see that it differs slightly to before where before was it was just a minimization problem. Now this is a min max problem. So first we want to find the maximum um of the loss with respect to delta which is our perturbation and note that this delta belongs in this set of perturbations denoted by capital B which is the set of imperceptible partations. Then we once we have computed this maximum now we want to minimize the parameters over the maximized loss. In other words, for every outer minimization step we take, we have to do an inner maximization where we find the partation that maximizes the loss. So this makes adversarial training significantly more expensive than standard image classification training. I will go into a little bit more detail about this um later on. So now hopefully we have a method um in training our neuronet networks to satisfy uh this specification. How can we go about evaluating this? So now in this next section I want to go over in a little bit more detail on u the methodologies we used to do adversarial evaluation on finding the worst case. So the goal of the adversarial evaluation is really to find the worst case partation for each example in a test set. And once we have found this worstc case partation, we now want to evaluate the accuracy of this new test set where each example in the test set is now replaced with a worstcase adversarial example. That is the original example plus the worst case adversarial partation. And this accuracy is known as the adversarial accuracy. But there are several complications. One of which is that to find this maximum exactly can be shown to be an MP hard problem when your activation functions is rel. And another complication comes in when we note that this is in fact a constrained optimization problem because we want the delta to be constrained within the set capital B. So instead of trying to find this maximum exactly um rather what people try to do is they try to approximate this maximum with a form of gradient ascent and because this is a constraint optimization problem um what we do is something called projected gradient ascent. So what projected gradient ascent is is simply gradient ascent like this. But the moment we fall outside of the constraint, which is denoted by this yellow box here, we project this back onto the nearest point that satisfies the constraint. So mathematically, what this now looks like is the following. So I want to break this down a little bit. Firstly, we see that within this projection function, we have exactly gradient ascent where you have your initial delta and then you take a gradient um with respect to delta in the direction to maximize the loss. And your step size here is denoted by EA. And once we have computed this update step, now we want to project this back onto the set that we care about. And more importantly, we project it onto a point which is the closest to the update update. Um, so this is the projected gradient ascent update step. And actually one of the more popular forms of projected gradient ascent is the fast grain fast gradient sign method um while we're considering perturbations within the L infinity norm. So what the fast gradient sign method does is it tries to replace um it replaces the gradient sorry with the sign of the gradient instead. But actually we can replace the gradient with any alterations made by any optimizer. So for example we can replace with this with maybe momentum optimization or atom optimization. So there are a lot of things for you to kind of try the step size, the optimizer, um the number of steps you want to take for your gradient ascent and often you want to explore these parameters such that you get the strongest evaluation possible. So here at this point I want to um go on to something which I want to emphasize for a little bit. So I'm going to stay on this slide for just a few minutes. So what do I mean by the a strong adversarial evaluation? Well, first of all to see what I mean, we need to note that your adversarial accuracy is dependent on the many choices you make during evaluation. That is it is dependent on the number of steps that you take for your projected gradient ascent. Uh the your step size, your optimizer and many more. So the stronger your adversarial evaluation is, the lower your adversarial accuracy should be. And we should always be trying to evaluate our networks such that we obtain the lowest adversarial accuracy possible. The reason why this is is because the lowest adversary accuracy is the number which is closest to the true specification satisfaction. And that is the one thing we care about. So because of this importance I thought I should give you a few heruristics of what I use um to ensure that my adversarial evaluation is strong. So the first thing I kind of look at is the number of steps for the projected gradient ascent. Um it might not be surprising but the more steps you take for your projected gradient ascent the closer you are to maximizing the objective. That is of course conditioned on the fact that your step size is sufficiently small. The second one is might be a slightly more subtle one which is the number of random initializations for the partations. So what I mean by here is that firstly you you randomly initialize a partation before you start taking projected gradient ascent steps. So we want to actually have a number of different random initializations. This is especially important when it comes to detecting behavior um called gradient offiscation which is something I will go into in a little bit more detail later on. Another um factor which I also look at is the optimizer that is used. Um so this is just a good thing to try out a few different optimizers to ensure that you always get the lowest adversarial accuracy. And another factor which is also quite important for detecting gradient offiscation is using a blackbox adversarial evaluation method. Um so what I mean by blackbox is when we assume that we're not given the weights of the network. So the adversarial valuation such as projected gradient ascent is otherwise known as a white box adversarial valuation because we are given the weights of the network. So the reason why I want to go into detail about why it is important to make sure your adversarial evaluation is strong is because we have seen the dangers of weak adversarial evaluation. So these are two papers published in 2018 where they have actually shown that weak adversarial evaluation can give you a very false sense of security. So what they did was they took a lot of the defenses published up until then and then they tried their new strong adversarial evaluation on all of these defenses and surprisingly this stronger adversarial evaluation broke many of the defenses causing the adversarial accuracy to go to zero. That is many apart from adversarial training which is you see which is the one you see on this line and this is possibly one of the many reasons why adversarial training is still heavily used today. Another benefit about stronger adversarial evaluation is that actually it gives you a true evaluation of progress. So I want to highlight this paper here because what I loved about this paper was that they did a largecale um evaluation of the defenses published up until then and then they took the numbers the adversarial accuracy which was reported in the tech in their um paper and compared it to what they got under their evaluation. So this work is very cool in two sense. Firstly, they have evaluated all of these works under now a consistent set of adversarial evaluations. And secondly, as you can see by the dropping the adversarial accuracy for many, this set of um adversarial accuracy is much much stronger than what the others have used in the paper. So now you can see if we can use a stronger adversarial evaluation that our adversarial accuracy for CR10 is not even above 60%. Whereas if we're just going to take the numbers that is reported in this paper as is maybe we're going to be under the impression that is almost 70% and above. That's why it is extremely important for us to take care when we're doing adversarial evaluation. So another reason why strong adversarial evaluation is important is because training methods like adversarial training is prone to an effect called gradient offiscation. Something that I've mentioned a couple of times already. So here I will go into detail what gradient offiscation is. And to describe what gradient offiscation is, I want to go back to the training objective for adversarial training. So let's recall that training the training objective for adversarial training has both an outer minimization step as well as an inner maximization step and in this I just want to focus on the inner maximization. So we can approximate this maximum similar to how we actually do adversarial evaluation by doing projected gradient ascent um to to approximate this maximum. However, we note that there is a little conundrum which is that even though the more steps we take, we might be getting closer to maximizing the objective, but the more steps we take, we also make adversarial training significantly more expensive. So, how can we make adversarial training cheaper? Well, maybe a naive way of doing this would be simply to do fewer steps of gradient ascent. For example, I can simp simply take maybe two steps of gradient ascent. But actually what happens when you take too few steps to maximize the objective is that the network learns to cheat by making a highly nonlinear loss surface such that simply by doing two steps of gradient ascent would not be even close to maximizing the objective you care about. So here is an example of a gradient offiscated surface. So what you see on this plot here um the X and Y axis is basically a hyper plane cut through image space and we plot the loss at every single point in this hyper plane. And as you can see that this is a highly nonlinear behavior for this small region of image space. Whereas if you do um adversarial training correctly, what you should actually expect is a much smoother looking loss surface. So with all of these dangers of weak evaluation and gradient offiscation, it really pushed people into thinking about maybe a different way um we can evaluate our algorithms. Um and this is called verification algorithms. So verification is very cool in the sense that um it is able to find a provable guarantee that no attacks that has ever been invented or will ever be invented can succeed in changing the spec specification satisfaction of your network. So there are generally two types of verification algorithms. Um the first type is a complete verification algorithm. What these algorithms normally do is often an exhaustive proof. For example, using mixed integer programming assuming that your activation functions is a rel. Um and often what they do is they either find a counter example or they find a proof that the specification is satisfied. Um but unfortunately these algorithms are very difficult difficult to scale to deep neuronet networks. So rather people use incomplete verification algorithms. So incomplete verification algorithms um is similar to complete verification algorithms in the sense that um once a proof can be found it is also a provable guarantee that the specification is satisfied. But the difference is that a proof cannot always be found even if your neuronet network satisfies the specification. So in other words, incomplete verification algorithms give you a lower bound um on the specification satisfaction. So I want to go into a little bit of a detail about um these incomplete verification algorithms. Um starting with this illustrative um sketch of a neuronet network that takes in as input X and gives you an output Y. So we make we generally make two assumptions for verification. Um the first one is we assume that um the input comes from a bounded set denoted by capital X here. And the second assumption we make is that um our neuronet network consists of linear and activation layers. Um please note that your convolutional layers can also be cast as a linear layer. So with these two assumptions, what we can now do is we can propagate the bounds of your input set through your linear and activation layer sequentially until we can get an output set denoted by capital Y here. And once we have this output set, we can simply see if it lies on one side of the decision boundary or not. However, the caveat here really is the true propagation, the exact propagation of these bounds is in fact MP hard. So what incomplete verification algorithm instead tries to do is they try to find a more scalable way of propagating these bounds um that is as tight as possible to the true set that we actually care about. But what we kind of lose is that now instead of getting the true set, we get an over approximated set of the true set. So an example of such a bound propagation technique is that we can imagine if your input is lower and upper bounded. We can simply compute the lower and upper bound after linear transformation and similarly after that we can compute uh the lower and upper bound after an activation layer. But the problem with these techniques is really that if your bound propagation is too loose in the sense that the over approximation is too big of an approximation of your true set, then your incomplete verification can be cannot mean very much. So what do I mean by this? Well, to see what I mean, first of all, we want to note that for incomplete verification algorithms where we only know the over approximated set. So we have no idea what this true set is. So in the ideal case if your over approximated set lies on one side of the decision boundary then indeed we have proven the true set lies on one side of the decision boundary as well. That is to say we found that this satisfies the specification. However, if you over approximated set is too large and it spans both sides of the decision boundary, then there is very little we can say about the set Y. Of course, we can try to close the gap um on maybe dist distinguishing between these two cases by actually doing projected gradient ascent like I've talked about before. Um and here is the graph which shows the difference of doing such an empirical adversarial evaluation compared to doing incomplete verification algorithm. So what this graph is showing on the x- axis you can picture this to be um the size of your input set capital X and on the y- axis is the amount of specification violation. So remember incomplete verification algorithms give you a lower bound on the specification satisfaction thus gives you an upper bound on the specification violation whereas on the other hand the empirical um adversarial evaluation gives you a lower bound on the specification violation. So the true specification violation lies somewhere in between. If our bound propagation techniques for incomplete verification algorithms is tighter, the gaps between these two will be reduced. So there is more we can say about the true specification satisfaction of your neuronet network. But if your bound propagation techniques is too loose and the gaps of this becomes larger and larger, at some point there is very little we can say about the specification satisfaction. So today I've just touched on uh the adversarial robustness specification but all of the techniques I've mentioned today can be used for many other specifications. For example, we can cons consider semantic consistency for image classifier. That is maybe some mistakes are more catastrophic than others. For example, for a self-driving car, it might be okay to mistake a cat for a dog because ultimately it doesn't change the driving policy very much. But it is not okay to mistake it for a car or for a dynamical systems predictor we can be looking at um laws of physics such as energy conservation. So hopefully what I have done today is given you a rough outline on how you can train your neuronet networks to satisfy specifications and more importantly evaluate how much your neuronet network satisfies these specifications. But more importantly, I very much hope I have motivated everyone into thinking why looking to this is is important. And this concludes the end of my talk. And now I want to pass on to Yason who will give you a more detailed overview of the ethical implications of machine learning algorithms and more importantly how we can be thinking about deploying and designing these algorithms to be beneficial to society. I'd like to start by thanking Chong Lee for her fantastic exposition of some of the key challenges that arise when building algorithms that are safe, robust, and fair. In this section of the talk, we'll focus more directly on the question of responsibility and what it means to deploy these technologies successfully in real world settings. However, before we get started, I'd like to reintroduce myself quickly. My name is Yasan Gabriel and I've been working at DeepMind as a research scientist in the ethics research team for three years. Before joining DeepMind, I used to teach at a university where my work centered on moral philosophy and practical ethics, including questions about global poverty and human rights. At DeepMind, our team explores questions that arise in the context of ethics and artificial intelligence, some of which we'll look at in the course of the next hour. So if we begin with the topic of ethics and machine learning, we immediately encounter questions including what is ethics and why does it matter and how does ethics connect with machine learning. I'd like to take these questions in turn. Ethics is a field of inquiry that's concerned with identifying the right course of action with what we ought to do. is centrally concerned with the equal value and importance of human life and with understanding what it means to live well in a way that does not harm other human beings, sentient life or the natural world. According to our everyday judgment, some actions are good, some are acceptable, and some are prohibited altogether. Understood in this sense, ethics is interested in identifying what we owe to each other and how we ought to act even in challenging situations. These situations can arise in our personal or professional lives. However, they also arise in the context of machine learning research. What I'd like to suggest is that far from being outside the domain of ethical evaluation, technologists and researchers are making ethical choices all the time, and many of these choices deserve closer consideration. As strongly noted, a good place to start is with the training data we use to build machine learning systems. In particular, we need to appreciate that data is not only a resource but also something that has ethical properties and raises ethical questions. For example, has the data been collected with the consent of those who are represented? We cannot take this for granted. Of course, there's high-profile cases of data being collected without people's consent, such as Cambridge Analytica, but it's also a common challenge for major data sets used to train image recognition systems that often use pictures of celebrities or simply images taken from the internet. Second, who or what is represented in the data? Is the data sufficiently diverse or does it focus on certain groups to the detriment of others? If we train a model on this data, will it perform well for people of different genders, nationalities, or ethnic backgrounds, or might it fail when applied to a group to these groups in significant ways? Thirdly, how is the data labeled and curated? Does it contain prejuditial associations? As Kate Crawford and Trevor Pagglin have demonstrated in their work on excavating artificial intelligence in the early days of ImageNet, it contained a person's class that assigned porative labels to a variety of images of real people. This is also a problem for historical data that's drawn from specific social contexts. Regardless of how that data is labeled, it may contain associations that are a reflection of human prejudice and discrimination. These challenges which arise early on in the machine learning pipeline have come to have a real world impact. A phenomenon that's most commonly referred to by researchers as the problem of algorithmic bias. Indeed, while these technologies have great potential, recent evidence suggests that far from making things better, software used to make decisions and allocate opportunities has often mirrored the values and biases of its creators, extending discrimination into new domains. These include the domain of criminal justice, where a program used for parole decisions mistakenly identified more black defendants as high risk than people in other racial categories, compounding entrenched patterns of racial discrimination within the criminal justice system. It's also been seen with job search tools which have been shown to offer highly paid jobs or advertisements for highly paid jobs to men over women by a significant margin. sometimes by a ratio of up to six to one. It's also a problem that's been noted for image recognition software, which has been shown to work less well for minorities and disadvantaged groups. And lastly, it's been something that we've encountered in the domain of medical tools and services, which have been shown to perform marketkedly worse for people with intersectional identities, something that could mean that they have unequal access to life-saving services and medication. Faced with this mounting body of ev evidence we cannot rely on good intentions alone. There is clearly an important body of work to be undertaken to address these failings. It is also clear to return to a point that Chong Lee made earlier that those who design and develop these technologies are in a position of power. So what is power in this context? I think it's best understood as the ability to influence states of affairs and more importantly to shape the lives of other people. More precisely, those who develop new technologies shape the world, creating new opportunities for closing others and shaping the path that humanity is likely to take. This can be seen with major inventions throughout history such as the steam engine or electricity. Artificial intelligence is now also starting to have profound effects. Some of them positive and some of them more challenging. With this power comes responsibility. However, the question then arises responsibility to what? Chong Lee has already shown us what is possible from a research perspective. Clearly, there are certain things that we can do and that we may well be required to do when building ML systems. However, I'd like to focus on the question of responsibility and see if we can develop our understanding of what is required a little further. At a collective level, I believe that an understanding of the relationship between power and responsibility should lead us to reflect more deeply on the question of what it means to do machine learning well. After all, the activity of scientific research is not value neutral. Rather, it is a social practice that human beings engage in that's governed by shared norms that change over time. Some of these norms are epistemic, for example, ideas about the need for replication in order to confirm scientific findings. Others are normative or moral, for example, about the acceptability of doing research on people without their consent. Ultimately with the way we structure this practice, including the way we think about what it means to do good research has profound social effects. These questions about appropriate norms and standards for research are particularly important when the stakes are high and when there's uncertainty about the overall impact. In response to the unique challenges posed by nanotechnology, governments and civil society groups came together to develop a shared understanding of what they term responsible innovation. These groups characterize responsible innovation as a transparent and iterative process by which societal actors and technologists become mutually responsive to each other's needs to ensure the ethical and social value of the scientific endeavor. This paradigm points towards the important idea that good science is itself based upon alignment with the social good and with democratic processes. A point that I'll return to later on. At the same time, the paradigm has been criticized for its vagueness. What precisely are researchers responsible for? What should they do? And how does this apply to the realm of machine learning? These are questions that I shall now try to answer more concretely as we turn to principles and processes for thinking about the ethics of artificial intelligence. So as AI researchers, I believe that we share in responsibility for at least two things. First, we are responsible for intrinsic features of this technology so that we build the very best systems that are sensitive to ethical and social considerations and are designed in ways that limit the risk of harm. Secondly, we bear some responsibility for exttrinsic factors that help determine whether it's designed, deployed, and used wisely in ways that produce beneficial outcomes. Both elements are necessary. Robust and secure technologies can be used in harmful ways by bad actors and faulty technologies can be problematic even if they're deployed and used responsibly. In terms of the content of these obligations, what I have termed the responsibility for what question, there are now a multitude of AI principles that broadly speaking aim to align machine learning research and systems with the social good. This includes offerings by the European Union, the OECD, the Beijing Academy of AI, and by the Future of Life Institute. Indeed, one recent study found that there's at least 84 different ethical codes that have been proposed for AI. Fortunately, these principles coales around certain key themes such as fairness, privacy, transpar transparency, and non-malfeasants. The last condition, which is sometimes characterized as do no harm, leads us to focus on the affirmation of individual rights. This includes things like respecting the requirement for informed consent and equal recognition before the law. Lastly, I believe we should try and develop artificial intelligence in ways that satisfy the collective claim to benefit from scientific discovery. Interestingly, this is also found in the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights, which establishes a right of all humanity to share in scientific advancement and its benefits. Yet, even with this understanding of the key values in place, certain gaps appear to remain. First and foremost, how do we move from these statements of principle to clear and robust processes for evaluation? We know that good intentions are not enough. But how do we take abstract moral ideals and turn them into these concrete processes and procedures? How should we balance and weigh different ethical principles against each other? And how should we deal with the fact that machine learning research is often highly theoretical in general, meaning that there's uncertainty about how it will ultimately be used? One answer is that we need tools that help us put principles into practice. In what follows, I describe a five-step process that technologists can use to evaluate our research and help make sure that it's ethically and socially aligned. While this process does not aim to capture the entirety of AI ethics, my hope is that it can be of use to many of us who are doing practical work designing and building algorithms. This framework is particularly helpful in relation to the values previously discussed. I will now run through the process briefly and then return to consider each stage in more detail. So the first question we need to think about when building new technologies is whether it has a socially beneficial use. Is there actually a reason to develop the thing that we want to develop? Now, most technologies do have socially beneficial uses of one kind or another. But if we're unclear about what the value is that we aim to unlock, that's typically a red flag that should immediately force us to go back and reconsider what it is that we want to do. Um, by getting this social purpose clear in our minds, it's also often true that we can create better versions of the technology that we had in mind. Um but once we have this social purpose in mind, we then need to turn to think about the risk of direct or indirect harm that the project brings with it. Um so here again is typically true that most um technologies uh bring with them some risk of harm and the important thing is to try and map out these risks clearly um so we know what we're contending with at every juncture. Then with an idea of what the benefit is and the risks that the project brings with it, we should turn to think about mitigation. Are the steps we can put in place that will reduce the risk or eliminate risks entirely? Then with this plan in place, we can finally turn to the first evaluative stage. So now we have the best version of the technology or piece of research in mind and we can ask with these measures in place does the proposed action or research violate a red line or a moral constraint? Does it push up against some threshold or barrier um which comprises the sort of things that we just ought not to do. Finally, on the assumption that we haven't hit one of these hard constraints, we have the question of whether the benefits outweigh the risks from an ethical point of view. Um, and at this point, it's often sensible not just to focus on the specific project at hand, but also to consider other options that are available to us given that we've been afforded this opportunity to do research. Is this really one that looks like it will add value to the world? Okay. So now we'll take a moment to look at these questions in more detail. So what is a socially beneficial use of technology? What does this mean? Well, I think that a technology can be socially beneficial in a variety of ways. To start with, it can it could contribute to human health or well-being. So it could make us physically more healthy or better off in some way. Technology could also enhance our autonomy or freedom um if it empowered us to act in a way that fulfills our own goals or outcomes. For example, by giving us useful information or by helping us be more discerning when it comes to understanding the world around us. Technologies can also help produce fairer outcomes if they're welld designigned and calibrated and developed in a way that includes the voices of people who are affected. They can contribute to public institutions such as healthare or education and these systems can be used to address global challenges such as climate change. Of course, there's certain gold standard research for ethically impactful work such as medicine or work to address climate change. But it's also okay to focus on more prosaic goals and aspirations. For example, to try and create technology that brings people enjoyment or gives them more time to do other things. If we take an example a technology developed by DeepMind, which was waveet, an algorithm that we created to help produce better quality synthetic audio, I'd say that one of the socially beneficial uses of that was to help visually impaired or illiterate people access digital services more effectively through through voice interactions. Secondly, we then have to consider this question of harm. So what sort of things fall into this category? Well, here what we see is that the harms are often the inverse of the benefits that we might try and unlock. So instead of improving human health or well-being, technology might undermine human health or well-being, including potentially mental health. It might restrict human freedom or autonomy, something that comes to the four if we think about the challenge posed by addictive content. It might lead to unfair treatment or or outcomes as we saw in the case of algorithmic bias. It might harm public institutions or civic culture and it might infringe human rights. So if this is the case, it's something that we really would need to be mindful of. Returning again to the case of Wavenet, um we understood that that research carried with it certain risks, including voice mimicry and deception if individuals used it to copy each other's voices. Um, and it could also potentially erode public trust in the fidelity of audio recordings. So once you have an understanding of these risks, the question is what can you do about them? Is it possible to mitigate these risks or to eliminate them entirely? Um, and in that regard, there's a number of significant things we can think about. The first is whether it's possible to control the release of technologies or the flow of information. So often technologies only have harmful outcomes if they fall into the hands of people who have a malicious intention or purpose. And we need to think about whether there's ways to prevent that from happening. We might also wonder if there's technical solutions and counter measures that we can use to make our technology harder to misuse. Something that Chong Lee really delved into. Um and in the context of waveet we can think about things like watermarking so that we always know um the progeny of a specific piece of synthetic audio or detection. Um we also have the opportunity to work with public organizations and the public um to communicate certain messages around technology. So sometimes if a new risk has been created, it's very important to make people aware of this. Um although that often isn't sufficient to discharge our moral responsibility. So finally, we may seek out policy solutions and legal frameworks that help contain the risk. Um and in the case of the challenges raised by synthetic media, um civil society groups have been really really important in terms of coming up with a united agenda that helps make sure that these technologies are used in a safe and responsible way. So once we have our mitigation plan in place, we have this question of whether the proposed action violates a red line or moral constraint. These constraints are sometimes referred to in moral philosophy as deontology. They're made up of a set of rights and duties that mark out the sorts of things that we should not do. For example, it would be deeply problematic to develop technologies that contravene consent protocols that infringe on people's personal space in ways that they haven't consented to. Similarly, in the domain of artificial intelligence, there's a concern about lethal autonomous weapons and what happens when human decision makers delegate these these fundamental decisions to machines. Um, so there's an international movement um which has also developed around legislating in this area and containing that risk um and ensuring that this technology isn't used in a way that intentionally harms or injures human beings. Thirdly, we might be concerned about certain forms of surveillance that also um could have a corroding effect on public trust um and lead to people for being victimized and targeted in certain situations. So that would be a really important avenue to be mindful of. And then we have technologies that potentially infringe human rights or international law. And basically if there's any risk that the technology will be used in a way that contravenes one of these fundamental purposes uh or one of these fundamental principles that again is a red flag which really really should encourage us just to go back to the drawing board and ask the earlier question what does a safe beneficial and productive version of this technology look like. However, on the assumption that we haven't encountered one of those hard constraints, we still have this final question, which is with these measures in place, do the benefits of proceeding outweigh the risks of doing so? And as I mentioned earlier, um when we think about machine learning research, it's a tremendous um it's a tremendous opportunity to do something really beneficial. And we've actually been afforded a great opportunity typically by universities, by research institutions to try and use our talents in a way that's genuinely helpful. So we should ask, is this project something that we really feel um will deliver the kind of social return that we care about and that has the potential to make people better off in practice. However, even when we've got through this process and come to the conclusion that we have got a good way of proceeding, it's still worth pausing to evaluate our findings and to conduct two further tests. These tests are particularly helpful because they can help us address the problem of motivated cognition. I the widespread problem of unconsciously endorsing arguments that support our own interests or our preferred course of action. So, first I'd ask, have you thought about all the people who could be affected by your action? More precisely, have you identified these groups? Do you know who they are? Have you considered what would happen if you were trying to explain your reasoning or your decision to them? And have you directly sought out their advice and input? This test is important for a number of reasons. To begin with, those who are affected by new technologies typically have a right to be included in decisions that affect them. Moreover, even moreover, even a process of imaginary and sympathetic dialogue can help us guard against error. If we'd really struggle to explain our actions to someone who is adversely affected by technology, then this is often a good reason to revisit our conclusions and work hard to identify a solution that could pass that test. Secondly, I think we should ask whether we've thought seriously about how our decision might be viewed in the future. Is it something that we might have reason to regret? Here we can imagine someone in the future, perhaps even our own children or grandchildren, asking us why we chose to act in the way we did. Why, for example, did we fly to so many conferences when we knew about climate change and the harmful impact we were having? How might it feel if we are to discover that our technology was subsequently used in a way that violated human rights? If these questions make us feel uncomfortable, then we have reason to introspect and identify that source of discomfort. Moreover, we should typically adjust our behavior to act in ways that minimize the likelihood of future justified regret. So now we've had a chance to look at the responsibilities of machine learning researchers and at a process for evaluating our decisions and choices. However, it's also worth pausing to reconsider where we are now as a field and what the path ahead might look like. The field of machine learning is changing rapidly both in terms of technical developments and breakthroughs and also in terms of ethical norms and standards. Increasingly, I believe there's recognition of the following key ideas. First, those who design and develop these technologies have a responsibility to think about how it will be used. This responsibility stems from the fact that the technology is powerful and from the fact that it has moral consequences that we can observe and that we're in a position to affect. Secondly, there are concrete steps and processes that we can put in place to make sure that this responsibility is successfully discharged. These include processes like the ones we've considered today that help promote the good while also respecting important constraints. Thirdly, while it's not possible to know the consequences of all our actions, we are responsible for what we can reasonably foresee and should take steps that is designed to bring about positive outcomes even when this means incurring certain costs. Given the power of machine learning technology and the attendant responsibilities of people working in this field, good intentions are not enough. We have an obligation to try and understand the impact that our actions will have on other people and to act conscientiously in light in light of that information. Beyond this, we can pause and ask about the path ahead. So in this regard, I see three exciting developments that we are all part of at the present moment. So to start with, there's an important new research agenda that's developing in this space and includes a critical focus on areas such as AI safety, robustness, fairness, and accountability. This technical work to improve the moral properties of machine learning systems requires constant vigilance and effort. But as Chong Lee has shown us, there are things that we can do and that we can change to build better machine learning systems. Secondly, we're starting to see the emergence of new norms and standards that point towards a different understanding of what it means to do machine learning well. On this view, what is needed is not only technical excellence, but also for research to be done in the right way and for the right reasons, limiting the risk of harm while also working to create technologies that benefit everyone. Finally, we're seeing the emergence of new practices which aim to promote responsible innovation in machine learning. These include the release of model cards that explain the intended uses and properties of ML systems, a proposal from top research labs to create bias bounties aimed at discovering bias in models and data sets that we use. And a new requirement from the machine learning conference in Europe, which asks all researchers to consider the ethics and social impact of their submissions and to detail this when we write papers. While very significant challenges still remain, I think that these developments send a good sign towards the future. With the requisite degree of effort, reflection, and conscientious endeavor, they will help ensure that machine learning as a field stays on the right track and continues to be an area of study that we can all be proud of. Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: 7R52wiUgxZI (https://youtu.be/7R52wiUgxZI) ===


the great pleasure for me to be here and
the lecture here um I don't know if you know that but there is really this close
connection between deep mind and UCL which started off by two of our founders
Thomas and Shane meeting as post doctoral fellows at UCL and then ending
up founding deep mind so really at the very root of things deep mind and UCL
are connected and I think it's great that we can celebrate that and and use
it and by putting out this lecture series and and sharing these thoughts
together I will only be the first of several lecturers here are all the
lecturers within the series and you will get to know these people if you stick
through their lectures and they have a lot of interesting and wonderful things
to say and towards the end of this lecture I'm going to go through the
topics that they will cover and try to motivate them in the context of the
larger field of deep learning here's the plan for the lecture first wheeled self
intelligence and and then we'll do some other things when I have the word
solving intelligence here that refers to the first part of deep minds mission
deep minds missions Hadley has these two parts first solve intelligence and
second use it to solve everything else and well that is of course an audacious
mission statement we do believe that it's a great North Star to guide our
research and so far it it has created a lot of great momentum so I could talk
about deep learning in a very broad sense giving examples from all walks of
life but I'm sure you're familiar with most most of those and so I'll take a
more personal view a more deep centric view also because that's the
work that I can authentically speak about and so what I would like to do is
go through three case studies of successful deep learning applications to
show you the power of deep learning and to motivate you to study it further and
in these three case studies a lot of things will come up that you might not
understand at this point in time fully but then I can assure you that the
subsequent lectures will fill in those gaps and and make you appreciate what's
happening here so the first case study is alphago and alpha0 the second one has
a little more action to it learning to play the game of capture the flag and
the third one goes beyond games and is about folding proteins with alpha fold a
deep learning based system and it takes us into the realm of biology and science
and then finally the last bit of the lecture I want to go over the the pieces
that the subsequent lectures will deliver and put them into a greater
context to tell you what's out there and why it's worth learning about these
things so let's start with solving intelligence the hallmark of human
intelligence is its generality and nobody has expressed this in a crisper
way than the science fiction author Robert a Heinlein so he says a human
being should be able to change a diaper plan an invasion butcher a hog Koerner
ship design a building write a sonnet balance accounts build a wall set a bone
comfort the dying take orders give orders cooperate act alone solve
equations analyze a new problem pitch manure program a computer cook a tasty
meal fight efficiently die gallantly specialization is for insects now
nothing accounts against insects because they are actually smart in their very
own way and I'm not sure we have actually fully
reached that level of intelligence yet but for the purpose of this definition
the idea is the ability to do a wide range of things well is a
characterization of intelligence now my colleague Shane leg is very passionate
about the definition of intelligence so passionate that he sifted through over
70 definitions of intelligence before he arrived at his own synthesis and his
definition is intelligence measures an agent's ability to achieve goals in a
wide range of environments you see how that's connected to the Heinlein quote
and to what we think of as intelligent behavior now why is this important well
if we want to create artificial intelligence we better have some kind of
idea how to measure success how to know when we have an intelligent agent now
Shane also has mathematics at his heart close to his heart and so he has a
formal theory of this definition of intelligence and we will not go into the
details but I would just like to point briefly pointed out so this measure of
intelligence here on the left is a function of PI a policy where a policy
determines what action to take in a given state now this measure of
intelligence is expressed as the sum over environments and this term
represents the breadth of all the things that an intelligent agent should be able
to do and he formalizes this in the framework of algorithmic information
theory and so he talks about the sum over all computable environments now we
need some something that indicates success and that's this term here the
value that policy PI creates in environment mu so how successful is that
policy or we expose it to that particular task or
environment and here's this thing in the middle is a complexity penalty a waiting
term K of MU is the comic or of complexity of the environment mu and so
what this says is that if this complexity is low then this term is
great and if this complexity is high then this term will be smaller and so
the definition gives more weight to simple environments and then
progressively less weight to more complex ones of course there are many
more complex environments than simple ones and so it also acts as a
normalization now the notion of the value and the policy come from a
framework called reinforcement learning and in many ways we think of it as a
very general purpose framework for AI the idea is that there's an agent and
the agent interacts with an environment and that environment poses some kind of
task or problem to the agent if you like and so the agent here represented as a
neural net observes the state of that world and can then take an action in
that world and influence the world and once it has taken that action it
receives the subsequent observation what has happened as a consequence of that
action and it receives the reward symbolized by the star here is there
some kind of positive impact on the agent some measure of success and the
goal of this agent is to learn a policy you know the PI from the previous
definition such that it maximizes long-term reward so ideally it doesn't
just go for the immediate reward but it it plans ahead it tries to act in such a
way that in the long term it will be successful in this environment now the
beautiful thing is that this framework is so general some people would say
overly general that it encompasses things like unsupervised learning and
supervised learning as special cases but if you want to learn more about it
there is actually a module that colleagues of mine are teaching at UCL
here on reinforcement learning so this framework will be important going
forward in those first two applications of deep learning that I'm going to talk
about and the reason is that the combination of deep learning and
reinforcement learning we also refer to it as a deep reinforcement learning is
such a powerful combination that we can use to solve interesting interactive
problems out there in the world now we started a lot of our work with games and
you might be aware of the work on atari games very early on and why do we do
that well first of all games are a bit like
this reinforcement learning you know you interact with this world and try to
solve problems really often they're a microcosm of the real world if you think
about typical games you know they are about value monopoly is about money and
buying and selling and chess is about has spatial dimensions and time built
into it and disease is a war game they have been designed to stimulate
intelligence the designers of this game specifically want to stimulate human
intelligence so clearly they must have some aspect to them that is is of
interest when we want to build intelligence the great thing is we can
simulate games you know we can set up simulations large-scale computer
simulations and and learn very quickly by playing these games and finally games
are great for us to measure progress because often there's some kind of
winning or score or success measure associated with games they just think of
video games with the little score indicator you know you want to ramp up
that score that's great that's a way of measuring progress and in the context of
our L of reinforcement learning it can also serve as a reward so that's what it
looks like then if we apply deep reinforcement learning to a game in this
case pong you know the ideas are the same the agent observes the environment
and take actions and then the score here is the
reward that the agent gets the reward that is trying to maximize in the long
term and then in deep reinforcement learning the policy here the thing that
decides in a given state what action to take drastic up drastic down and so on
based on seeing this pixel image in this case that is parameterized by a neural
network whose parameters were trying to adapt so that the agent has success in
the long term for example optimizing long term discounted reward so in this
particular application my colleagues ran these reinforcement learning algorithms
over close to 50 different Atari games and achieved superhuman level in a lot
of these games really by putting the controller into the hand of the
reinforcement learning algorithm letting it play these games observing the screen
if you like the pixels on the screen and training the system to maximize reward
or game score in these games and I just want to use this as an example for how
to think about Shane's definition you remember there was the sum over
environments and the value that the agent generates in these environments
now think of the set of environments as these games and then if we have an
algorithm that can do well in all of these games then according to Shane's
definition we might be tempted to call that agent to have acquired some degree
of intelligence of course not anywhere close to human intelligence but you know
just that ability to solve many different tasks to a high standard as
the hallmark of intelligence okay so what's the role exactly of deep learning
here well in previous machine learning work prior to the deep learning wave if
you like for every problem that you wanted to solve with machine learning
you first need to define features that describe the state of
the problem you know for documents that would be bag of words features and for
visual problems that would be particular filters that people defined edge
detectors and so on and the new thing with deep learning not new now but you
know it was back then is to enable end-to-end learning to put the raw
features the pixels near the raw description of the problem in and learn
the desired input output mapping just given the loss how you measure success
and the architecture of your neural network that's really what I would call
the the definition of deep learning now one beautiful thing about deep
learning is that through the architecture we can put prior knowledge
into the solution of our problem and that makes learning easier in other
words it requires less training data if we can do that and hence also less
compute and we will talk a little more about this later but this prior
knowledge could for example be about space and be about time those basic
kunti and notions if you like now what makes deep learning possible and
attractive now I would argue it's the great computational power that we have
available now GPUs TP use and so on it's the large amount of data that we now
have generated by mobile devices online services distributed sensors labels
generated by crowdsourcing by people if you like and finally our better
understanding of algorithms and architectures and there's a great
opportunity here because a lot of these algorithms are out there you know
they're an uncute hub you can download them and play with them and a lot of the
papers are an archive you know as soon as they're written people upload them on
the archive and there's a huge repository of information there to get
started in deep learning good ok I would like to move on now to these case
studies and start off with alphago and alpha zero some of you may have heard
about these projects and so I hope I can deliver some some more details on these
and give you the general gist the core paper that I want to talk about is this
paper a general reinforcement learning algorithm that masters chess shogi and
go through self play learning with my great colleagues David silver tomorrow
bear Julien Schmidt feasor and Eunice and no blue and others what you see here
is the scene where were ad job who we also call the hand of alphago
because he acts as alpha goes hand where he plays and here lee sedol on the other
side in this 2016 match which was captured in in this Netflix documentary
that you might want to check out if you haven't seen it so what's the problem
with go go is a beautiful game complex with beautiful strategies doesn't take
long to learn but a lifetime to master and the problem is that there are so
many different moves in any given position the 361 vertices on which you
can take turns to place black and white stones to surround territory and there's
just so many different ways in which games can develop and that's where deep
learning kicks in and in particular we use two neural networks to reduce the
size of the search space the space of possible games in which we need to do
our planning the first one we call the policy network and the policy network
takes as input a raw goal position you're now characterized by empty black
and white points on this 19 by 19 grid and maps it to a probability
distribution over moves so given a go position this thing is a probability for
each move being played in a particular position now we have a second neural
network we call the value network and the value network also takes a given
position but it just produces one number basically the evaluation of that
position is this position good for black or is it
good for white and how was this trained in alphago well we were lucky we had
access to a lot of human game records that people had recorded from very
strong players and so the first thing we could do was imitation learning we could
use deep learning to learn the policy network to really just learn to imitate
the human players and that gave us the weights for the policy network you know
the network observes a position it observes the professional or the highly
skilled move played in that position and now it's a simple mapping from the input
board representation to that label if you like now at that point we had a
policy network that was able to play in a similar way to very strong human
players it could imitate them so we could use that neural network to very
quickly generate more games and so we generated a lot of games that then
allowed us to train the value network because what the value network requires
is an again an input representation for the board and the outcome of the game
did black win or did white win and from very many such pairs it can then learn
the probability for any given position for black or white to win and this is
already a form of reinforcement learning because we're learning the value
function that I talked about earlier now how do we use these neural networks they
actually use them much in the way that humans would use their intuition when
they approach the game the problem is there's this huge search tree when you
expand from a given position all the different ways black can play than all
the counters by white and black and white and so on it's a huge search space
and it would be hopeless to just try and plan within that space if you didn't
have any guidance but these two neural networks they give us that guidance the
policy network allows us to be smart about the moves that we choose we don't
need to check out all the moves that start from this position
we can focus on the promising ones on the ones where the professional or
strong go player would be likely to play and that biases the search in the right
direction now the problem that remains is that the game tree is still very deep
a typical game of go can last 200 moves 250 moves even longer sometimes so how
do we deal with that that's where the value net comes in because we don't need
to go all the way to the end of the game to observe its outcome if black wins or
white wins we can stop somewhere in the middle after a few moves and use the
trained value network to give us an estimate of how good the position is for
black or for white and so together the policy network and the value network
reduce the size of this huge search tree and allow us to traverse it and find
good plans in it and that's what alphago does and it worked we weren't always
sure it would work but in 1968 in 2016 we had the match against isa dal a
phenomenal 9dan professional go player from korea and at that point no program
had ever beat a professional player at that level in a match and in a very
exciting match alphago ended up winning four games to one and if you want to
share that excitement I really recommend that you take a look at this Netflix
documentary alphago which details our paths there and and also the drama of
the match good so much for alphago but we weren't quite happy with that because
alphago go is just one game right and so we said that intelligence requires us
the agent to be able to solve more than one game maybe three games you know not
much but a little better and so I'd like to talk about alpha zero and and how
that managers not only to play two more games but also use much less
human knowledge because remember alphago was still using those professional game
records and also some some additional features that we had designed and so
what's interesting is that a short story by Stefan spike the Royal game can give
us some insight into how alpha0 approaches the SPRO this problem
you see here on the right Stefan's like the author and the book tells the story
of dr. B an innocent man who has been arrested and is being held in solitary
confinement not unlike our learning agents that the B is alone in his small
world and starved for stimulation I quote they did nothing other than
subjecting us to complete nothingness for as is well known nothing on earth
puts more pressure on the human mind than nothing while waiting for an
interrogation dr. B manages to steal a book from one of his captors a book
about the game of chess eager to engage his mind dr. B devours the book and
learns to play chess on a makeshift board in his cells he replaced the
master games from the book over and over again but after a few weeks the games
from the book have lost their novelty desperately looking for further
diversion dr. B attempts to play chess against himself but he soon realized
that he can only play against himself if he splits his mind into two halves and I
black and then I white only now with two agents in play through interaction and
learning can happen later on a cruise ship dr. B meets the
world chess champion of the time when Mirko sent ovitch an expert at chess and
only at chess in a stunning demonstration of his skills dr. B
manages to do the impossible he wins at chess against the world chess champion
now fast forward 80 years and Stefan Sykes story becomes reality in a way
that not even the author could have imagined and he could imagine a lot the modern center which stock fish the
world computer Chess Champion 2016 a good old-fashioned AI for playing chess
and only chess the modern dr. B I would argue alpha0 an artificial agent that
learns to play chess solely by playing against itself now here you see some
results as white alpha zero wins almost 30 percent of its game against his games
against stock fish and as black it manages to draw most of the time and
even wins the humor games then stock fish does you have to imagine stock fish
is an is a good old-fashioned AI a program that has been designed by people
by chess experts and so on and uses an enormous number of heuristics to cut
down the search tree and uses all kinds of domain knowledge about chess now here
you see the development over time as alpha zero trains this is the route
these are thousands of steps and you see here the e low number that's how we
measure success here and after roughly four hours of training alpha zero
surpasses stock fish in its chess skills so how does this work the trick of
course is a form of reinforcement learning and self play as you may have
inferred from this story alpha zero is also all alone in some sense playing
chess against itself and here's how it works
so initialized with the policy and value network alpha zero plays by evaluating
the search tree from a given position in making its best move then taking that
next position again taking policy and value net and tree search to evaluate
its net next move and so on and so forth it plays in place in place and generates
a lot of games at its current level of chess which is very low at the beginning
because it's just starting and P and V there are at this point almost random
but then now we have games generated and we can train the policy network because
now we have a position and we know which move was made and we can train the
policy network to imitate that move we can do that for the next position and
the next position and so on the move made by alpha zero previously is the
label from which the policy network learns it's basically imitating itself
augmented by search similarly we can train the value Network and predict the
winner of these games because we know those games we've played them all the
way to the end so for a given position we know how it will end and we can train
in your network that estimates that now finally we put these new policy and
value networks into the tree search and generate new games let alpha zero play
against itself but now at a higher level because the new policy network and the
new value network are better and hence together with the tree search they
generate better moves and we can generate higher quality games of chess
that's how it works and it actually works not only for chess but also for go
and for shogi and these are just comparisons to how long it takes to over
to reach the levels of the more traditional kind
tenders for being the best programs in this space now one thing that I found
very interesting is how does alpha zero reason about chess positions in order to
appreciate that you need to understand that a classical chess program on the
left evaluates tens of millions of positions before it makes a remove it
expands the tree to that many nodes now alpha zero only expands about tens of
thousands of positions less by a factor of a thousand
so it's search is much more focused and of course that still a far cry from how
human grandmasters operate because they only evaluate hundreds of position their
intuition for chess is so great that they are very good at both selecting the
lines they look at and evaluating the resulting positions but you see here
that in some sense we've made a move from this brute force approach towards
the smarter way of solving these problems that humans employ one thing I
like is that we actually discovered some chess knowledge here or not we actually
alpha zero did you know for example traditional openings like the English
opening was discovered by alpha zero and it continues to play it there's there's
other openings that are also known to humans that are discovered
but then discarded you know not good enough alpha zero understood that that
line although it's been played by humans for a long time you know just not good
enough I want to give you one example of play of alpha zero this is my favorite
game it's called the immortal souped swung game super strong is a german word
that indicates a situation in which it's not actually advantageous for a site to
move but they'd rather stay still and do nothing but the rules of chess don't
allow that so what you see here is alpha zero as white and stockfish as black and
you see here that whites pieces are very active and black is very crammed into
this corner with the Queen in the corner blocked by that rock the King also
blocked in these two rocks protecting that porn it doesn't
look good and now we can take a look at which moves actually or which pieces
black cannot move in this situation and the tragedy of the position if you like
is that moving any of these pieces leads to a loss for black and so you see that
alpha zero has a real appreciation of these positional advantages the mobility
of the pieces and and dominating the board okay let's conclude the learning
helps us conquer this huge search space and self play produces the large amount
of data that we need to train these deep neural networks there's also another
thing at play which we call an automatic curriculum because you know at the at
the beginning the system starts to play in a very weak fashion and as it becomes
better its opponent also becomes better and so it always trains against opponent
that's just of the right level because it's training against itself and that
automatic curriculum leads to stronger and stronger play and the system
discovers new knowledge which i think is is a beautiful property of AI systems
there's still many open questions it's just a game and relatively small spaces
as opposed to real world situations but it's an interesting first step there's
more material that you can look at if you're interested now let's move to a
more action filled game learning to play the game of capture the flag this is
based on a recent science paper with max jailer burg Wojtek Ronettes key and in
Dunning and it's about playing the game of capture the flag so it's a large
scale a decentralized multi agent learning problem because capturing the
flag is an objective game where multiple agents need to learn to interact to play
it well and you see here a first-person perspective and here a top-down view of
a typical game situation how does this game work well this we
play it as a 2v2 game the you go run to the opponent base and pick up the flag
you want to bring it back to your own base but you need to make sure that when
you capture it that your own flag is at your own base let's take a look at this
from the game's perspective here this is the agent perspective and this is the
top-down perspective and you'll see how this game works so you see the blue
agents there they're going to the towards the red flag and capture it and
they want to now bring it back to their own base and the trick is that you
really need to have your flag at your base to score and that's that's why you
need coordination for example now their flag has been stolen by the red agent
and so they need to tag that red agent and get their flag back before they can
score score a flag of their own now the types of environments that you see here
we have - we have an outdoor version you know one that's placed in some kind of
desert setting and here we have an indoor version we wanted to show that
the system can handle these two types of very different terrains and specifically
what's interesting here is we use procedural generation whereas you and I
we would probably play this game on the same map every time or maybe it just
changed maps a few times what we require the agents to do here is to play on a
different map every single time and here you see a sample of these maps they all
look different and what that does is when the agents learn to play on these
varied maps they learn to generalize they learn robust strategies that work
in all kinds of maps rather than just rote learning a particular map and so
the trick is also to train a population of agents and you see here our training
setup there's a population of agents down here and they connect to what we
call arenas each one of these is a little game simulation and some sample
of these this population connects to the games for agents to on blue side to on
red side they play they learn they get feedback they win or they lose and then
that stream of experience is routed back to those agents and that's where the
neural networks are updated and they learn and they are trained pretty much
independently other than through their interaction in the arena
Kirsten you're a network architecture that we use it's a two level hierarchy
of recurrent neural networks a fast one and a slow one so we can cover different
timescales and it also learns about the reward signal because this problem is
very difficult if you only ever get a reward signal at the end you know you
imagine you play a five-minute game of capture the flag and in the end someone
tells you oh you just won or you just lost and you now need to figure out
going back in the game what was it that made me win or what was it that made me
lose wouldn't it be much better if you had some intermediate rewards like oh "I
just tag the opponent that must have been a good thing" or "I just got the flag
off the opponent" and so that's what happens at this top level when we learn
those rewards we also use a population of agents because that allows us to get
some robustness towards different playing styles different agents learn to
play the game in different ways and so when agents train against these
different agents they again need to develop robust strategies in order to
succeed in this game so here you see the results and again we measure agent skill
in elo so the higher it is the better and this is how they develop over time
you see here this is the baseline a random atrum that doesn't do much it's
just chittering about you know randomly naive self play doesn't quite work as
you can see here it's almost as bad as the random here is the baseline of an
average human and here's the baseline of a strong human and you see that the
agent the deep learning aid redeveloped in this work learns and learns and
learns surpasses the average surpasses the strong human and ends up
with a much higher skill than all of them now one thing that we found
particularly nice is when we test it with humans we also let them fill in
some questionnaires and we asked them so which ones of your teammates was most
collaborative you know with whom could you work the best and it turns out that
the human players indicated that they liked it best to play with the AI big
you know they found it reliable and strong and you know they wanted to play
with the AI so a nice finding now I'd also like to use this example to show
you something that is maybe a little underappreciated and it's the idea of
understanding how these trained agents that behave in these arguably quite
clever ways in these environments represent the world and in order to do
that we've here done a tease me embedding like a two-dimensional
embedding of the internal states of the agents as they play this game and we can
color the points by our knowledge of the game situation for example here we know
that this these points represent situations in which the agent flag is at
the base the opponent flag is at their base and the agent is in their home base
you know we know that because we can look at the game but the agents also
know that you know they know that this is a particular type of situation and
they represented by internal activations that are all similar to one another and
that are different from a different situation like here where the agent flag
is taken the opponent flag is held by the teammate and so somehow in their
internal representations they've learned what a given situation is like and as a
consequence they can use that to make the make good decisions about how to
play in those situations and good decisions they make here are some
patterns of behavior that we've observed and here for example home base defense
they try to defend their own home base they sometimes camp in the opponent home
base you know they just wait there until the flag responds and
they can they can steal it or they can follow the teammate and really just work
together in in the same area and it turns out that this most advanced agent
is actually most similar in playing style to to the humans that we observed
playing and I just want to emphasize there's a whole dimension of research
out there where we not only train these systems but we look at their internal
representation how do they represent the world and we look at their behavior and
really understand how they solve the problem so that we can learn from that
but also ensure that they behave in safe ways for example if it's a safety
critical problem good now we've seen that in the in this more complex
multiplayer game the agents can clearly reach human level it takes a lot of
compute to achieve that no doubt training populations is important
because you want a diverse training signal and the self play that still
worked for alphago for alpha zero didn't actually work here because they just
learned one strategy and there wasn't enough diversity and robustness in there
a second thing of course that makes things robust is that we have diversity
of environments because they we procedurally generate them and we can
begin to understand how these agents behave and write this papers and blog
posts on this that you can read to pick up more detail now as the third case
study I would like to go beyond games and talk about how we can use deep
learning to learn to fold proteins and the particular project I'll talk about
is called alpha fold and the paper is called improved protein structure
prediction using potentials from deep learning and is worked by my colleagues
Andres senior Richard Evans John jumper and James Kirkpatrick and many others so
what is this about what is this protein forwarding
first let's understand what proteins are some of you may know more about this
than I do and but here's the gist there are the fundamental building blocks of
life they carry out all kinds of functions in our bodies they catalyze
reactions they transduce signals across the cell membrane they regulate genes
they do cellular transport they they provide antibodies and they're very
important for clinical drugs often they are the target of particular drugs but
also many drugs are proteins and the key thing we need to know to understand the
protein is its shape what the shape of a given protein on the right here you see
this amazing animation of proteins in action and you can see they really act
as molecular machines you know then they can fulfill an amazing diversity of
functions in the body depending on their shape now the interesting thing is that
in some sense the specification of a protein is just a chain of amino acids
it's it's a sequence of amino acids from an alphabet of 20 different amino acids
and what happens is that these amino acids they interact locally to form
these shapes for example HeLa C's or sheets and then these HeLa season sheets
they interact more globally to form the 3d shape of the overall protein and then
proteins can interact to do all of these amazing things now the the problem that
we want to solve is that of protein structure prediction and you have to
imagine that these proteins they have a backbone it's basically the kind of the
main chain that determines their shape and they have these little side chains
that that influence how these how this backbone interacts with itself as it
folds back on itself and if we can figure out from the sequence you know
this is the sequence of amino acids what the 3d shape of the protein is then we
can understand what this protein does because it acts when it's in this 3d
shape you can also imagine that if we have a shape in mind that we want to
create it would be really good to have this kind of mapping available because
then we could invert it and from the desired shape device the sequence of
amino acids that we would need to create in order to build the thing that falls
into that particular shape it's known as the inverse problem now how can we think
about the shape of these proteins the goal really is to predict for every atom
in this protein exactly where it ends up when it folds but one way of
parameterizing this is through the torsion angles and once we have all
these 2n torsion angles which are the angles how these different bonds connect
to one another then we know the 3d shape just imagine if you wanted to determine
the shape of these things someone told you which way they rotate at each point
and you would be able to figure out where they are so those are the
parameters that we're looking for once we have these angles then we should be
done but there's a paradox and that is called Leventhal paradox and it's
basically the following many naturally occurring proteins fold reliably and
quickly to their native state despite the astronomical number of possible
configurations so how if there are so many ways in which these things can fold
how do they find the right way so that they end up in exactly the shape that's
necessary in their living organism and I've done a little example here so
suppose we have a chain length of 361 amino acids
and just at any point there are three different ways in which they could fold
then we would have three ^ 361 is roughly ten to the 172 configurations in
which they could fold now imagine these proteins can wiggle really quickly and
they can explore ten to the thirteen different configurations per second or
ten to the twenty per year that seems like really quick search through that
space right but it would still take 10 to the 152 years to sample all the
possible configurations it's a huge space and for those of you who know the
game of Go I have chosen 361 is the example on purpose here because that's
the number of vertices and a go board and three ^ 361 is an upper bound on the
number of legal go positions of all the kind of ways in which you can have a go
position and John trump actually calculated how many legal positions
there actually are in go and you see I tend to get sidetracked to go because I
just love the game and he represents that number as a ternary number and a
ternary number because any of these points can have three states empty black
or white can be represented as a go position and so this is the go position
that as rare if you read it as a ternary number represents the number of legal
positions in the game of goal now you might be wondering is it a legal
position it is an illegal position you know there's a black stone here where it
shouldn't be and another one here and that's actually accurate because the
majority of these configurations of a go board are in fact not legal positions
but back to $11 per adducts there's a huge search space but we know that deep
learning can do something about deep search spaces so let's do that so why do
we want to use deep learning for protein folding there are experimental methods
of course to determine the structure of of proteins but it's a very difficult modeling
problem we have data available 150,000 proteins in the protein data bank which
was founded in 1971 so this is a long ongoing process but we have much less
data than for some of the other tasks like speech recognition or image
recognition so it's a little harder there's another advantage there is CASP
which is an assessment some kind of competition that provides a benchmark
for protein folding so there's a way of testing how well a system does so what
should we predict it turns out that the 3d structure of such a protein is fully
described by a dispair wise distance matrix so if you have all of these
points in space if you know all the pairwise distances between them then you
know what that configuration in space looks like and so the main thing that's
being predicted in this system is this distance matrix conveniently it looks a
bit like an image and you know images we're good at at addressing with deep
learning here's how the Alpha fold system works the sequence comes in here
and we generate certain features from databases so it's not quite just using
the raw data but it's pulling in features about these sequences from
databases and then it does its distance predictions also some angle predictions
and it produces a score function and this score function is a number that
measures for a given forwarding configuration for that sequence how good
that foldings configuration is and it's differentiable and if it's
differentiable we can do gradient descent and we can optimize it and
that's really the key idea behind this work I will not go into the details of
this deep dilated convolution convolutional residual network but my
colleagues in the future lectures will discuss
architectures in greater detail and you will have no trouble understanding
what's going on here once you've been through their lectures
that's just one thing be said it's a very very deep neural network with 220
of these blocks one after the other good how accurate are the predictions
the first thing we can compare is ground truth of this distance matrix with the
estimates of the system and we find that the system does a good job at capturing
not only short term interactions but also long long-range interactions and
then we can compare the foldings themselves and these are good examples
where the folding worked well but you can see here that blue which are Alpha
false predictions and green are reasonably well aligned so it the system
understands the gist of these proteins and and how they forward the second step
is this gradient descent that we can do now that we have a potential and energy
function if you like that we want to optimize we can use gradient descent on
these angles and and just wiggle down in these in this configuration space and
there you see that here in action it's literally optimizing the coordinates of
all the different bits and folding in the process trying to optimize the score
that has opted that it has estimated to be a good potential for this problem
you started multiple times to discover local optima but overall it's a gradient
descent operation now I said earlier that one reason this was such a nice set
up for deep learning is that there's a good assessment exercise and this is
cusp in this case calves 13 and it is a it is a competition in which there are
82 chains that fold into some 3d structures but they are not known to the
community yet they're kept secret and so these chains are released one chain per
day for a period of time and then the participating teams have three weeks to
return five guesses or predictions of what they think that particular chain
will forward into and it's a very popular
competition over 90 groups from different labs across the world
participate and then they have a particular scoring mechanism which boils
down to measuring how close the predictions are to the to the ground
truth that has been determined by those experimental techniques and this is a
fantastic piece of work designing this competition and were indepted two
decades of work here of those people who run the competition or the participants
but of course also those people who do with the experimental work of producing
this data because that's hard work some people estimate that for some proteins
it takes an entire PhD thesis to get the 3d structure and entire PhD thesis
that's a lot of work ok so here are the results these are the different teams
that participated and in fact the deep learning system comes out as the best
performing system in this in this exercise so this deep learning based
distance prediction clearly works it gives more accurate predictions of
contact between residues although it estimates distance previously a lot of
systems used contact when they're close enough to go to one another
closer than a test rooms but it also delivers richer information because you
can imagine this is there's more information in a distance than in the
binary signal or if something is together or further apart right we have
more information and finally because it's a smooth prediction and we get
these distances it's real numbers it's also a smoother potential that is easier
to optimize and we see that's why the gradient descent for finding the right
car configurations works there are many limitations still of course the a
curious accuracy of the system is still limited it doesn't work so well on some
some proteins or protein templates the method depends on what we pull out of
that database so only because there's a database of
structures can we get the features that allow us to make those predictions and
also it only predicts the backbone and we then use a tool called Rosetta to
fill in the side chains so it's it's one small step in in a problem that has been
thought about and worked on for many decades but it shows that deep learning
has something to contribute to these problems in science and specifically in
biology good so that was the three case studies that I wanted to present alphago
the classic if you like with its extension into alpha zero a board game a
video game the game of capture the flag with more players more richer
interactions harder to process visuals and so on and finally an example from
the world of science where deep learning can really make a contribution to
scientific progress in a field where that matters because it might help
develop new new cures now I'd like to use the rest of the time to give you an
overview of the field of deep learning by going through the different lecture
topics that my colleagues are going to talk about and here they are and we
start with number two because we just in the process of doing number one the
first lecture away after this one is on the foundations of neural networks and
will be developed at the delivered by Wojtek Ronettes key and it will really
answer the questions what our neural networks what kinds of functions can
they represent how are they trained you know back propagation some review of
those ideas many of you will be familiar with them but I can tell you when Roy
Tech explains these things then they become clearer than they have ever been
and of course also what are the limitations of neural networks
limitations of neural networks have led to the first neural network winter men
decades ago when neural networks with only a single layer were not able to
solve the simple XOR problem and when only only adding a second layer to the
neural network then enables the system to solve this kind of problem so that's
these things are important to know the second lecture after that or a number
lecture number three will be on convolutional neural networks for image
recognition given by sundar dilemma and the idea here is really to pick up on
the on the thought that we want to imbue the neural network with a form of prior
knowledge because that will make learning more efficient than more data
efficient and introducing convolutional neural networks is one way of doing that
convolutions encode a particular week prior about how images behave for
example they can encode translation invariant you know no matter where an
object is in the in the image it will still be the same thing and we'd like to
encode these things in our neural networks and convolutional neural
networks brainchild of Jung Lacan in his little net five work they really
revolutionized image recognition because they made these neural networks
competitive for these tasks and nowadays every neural network application in the
area of vision makes use of convolutional neural networks now in the
next lecture Viorica Petrossian will talk about vision beyond image net and
object recognition and talk about more advanced models and this might involve
object detection semantic segmentation you know what is what in a given scene
estimation of optical flow she will also talk about analysis of videos videos can
be viewed just as stacked images in time and there are interesting tasks there
for example action recognition from a single frame you might not know what
someone is doing but if you see a video of it then there's an action going on
you might want to recognize what that is you know for example
someone smashing in the window or doing a sports exercise the next thing is self
supervised learning one problem that deep learning is plagued with is that it
are it's supervised variant depends on labels you know when we learn object
recognition we need a photo and a label what's in it so to speak but in self
supervised learning we can learn a lot about the world without labels and this
is particularly interesting if you have multiple modalities think of a video on
YouTube there's a video stream but there's also an audio stream and the
audio can tell us something about the video and the video can tell us
something about the audio and so we can learn representations from that the next
lecture is on optimization for machine learning given by James Martin's so you
can think of optimization as the engine that drives the learning process and of
course it's a very old field how to how to optimize functions and he will focus
in particular on gradient based optimization methods and their
application to training neural networks he'll cover gradient descent momentum
methods second-order methods and stochastic methods and just to give you
an example this is a visualization of the error surface of the lost surface of
a neural network you see it's a complex beast it has this fine substructure
everywhere with local optima there's a super interesting result in particular
in this paper here mode connectivity that there are all of these little
Optima this local Optima but there's a path between them where when you walk
along purl in the parameter space along this path all the solutions along that
path are relatively good solutions that generalize well and those connect those
modes and you know there's a lot of complexity here in those lust surfaces
and we need to understand optimization to to become good at training these
neural networks I will then move on to sequences and
recurrent networks delivered by Marta gar nello
and this is again the idea that we want to imbue the neural network with prior
knowledge but this time its knowledge about time its knowledge about sequences
maybe the idea that in a sequence for what happens now more recent stuff have
matters more than stuff that happened longer time ago and why is this
important well if you think about it a lot of data comes in the form of
sequences speech text DNA sequences video audio they're all sequences we
might think of vectors that's like the first thing that we learned in machine
learning but almost all the interesting stuff comes in sequences and so she will
discuss recurrent neural networks and also the famous LST M's long short-term
memory which is a way of dealing with the problem of vanishing gradients in
training recurrent neural networks another interesting task here is
sequence to sequence learning suppose you want to translate one language to
another that's one sequence to another and so
there's there's ways of training neural networks to do that as well we'll then
move on to deep learning for natural language processing in some sense a
special case of the previous work and Felix will discuss why deep learning is
a good technique for language and he'll discuss simple recurrent your networks
apply to language but also more complex models up to transformers which is one
of the most successful models he'll also talk about unsupervised learning because
not every piece of text is labeled so what can we learn if we just have a dump
of Wikipedia or reddit you know a vast amount of text can we learn something
about language from that without having labels and finally he'll also talk about
subtle things like situated language understanding you know what does the
situation of a particular agent tell us the grounding the interaction of
language in the world here's just a tiny example of some recent very exciting
work in language modeling you know where they train this huge model I think on
the reddit corpus of a lot of data and it's a system that you can prompt with
some input text and it will then produce a continuation of that text and it
produces very fluent text I'll just read the completion but you know it's about
the prompt is about scientists discovering unicorns you know pretty
absurd but the model just keeps going the scientists named the population
after the distinctive horn of its unique urn these four horned silver white
unicorns were previously unknown to science you know it's kind of
superficially makes sense you listen to it and it sounds like English right
what's going on so then Alex graves will talk it will turn your and his attention
to attention and memory in deep learning which are emergent topics that are very
important we know of course that for human cognition attention and memory are
very important but can you renege works and body these ideas it turns out that
they can and you can even foreign normal in your network see that it will pay
particular attention if you like to some parts of the input rather than others to
solve particular tasks we call that implicit attention but we can also make
that explicit we can build mechanisms that allow the neural network to zoom in
on particular parts of the input to put its attention there if you like
and the highlight of that lecture might well be the idea of the neural Turing
machine or differentiable neural computer where there's a neural network
controller that has access to an external memory that can write to it and
read from it and it can solve problems in this way for example it can write the
graph of the of the London Underground system into this memory and then answer
questions about it about the connectivity of that graph so that
should be an interesting one now then move to unsupervised learning
in particular generative latent variable models and variational inference
by Andreini and I already mentioned unsupervised learning is very important
because we don't have labels for a lot of tasks and in particular and
interesting model that he will consider is the auto encoder model at the
variational auto encoder model and the idea here is that from data you might
want to infer some latent variable responsible for generating that data for
example there's the image of a digit and you might want to determine what the
label of that digit is but then given the label of that digit you might want
to generate images of those digits and training these jointly is the model of
the variational auto encoder and it's a very powerful model for unsupervised
learning when you don't have labels but when you need your system to learn the
underlying representation then in lecture 10 will continue with work on
unsupervised learning with the focus on representations and this will be
delivered by me al or Oscar and Irina Higgins
and they'll ask the question what is a good representation which of course is
task dependent but can we characterized how we would like to represent the world
and they'll argue that unsupervised learning has the potential to address a
lot of the open problems that deep learning is struggling with for example
the large amount of data of labelled data that is needed and they will
discuss different approaches to this here's a little example there's a data
set of 3d or of 2d projections of 3d chairs and you know they just come in
the the system is just confronted with those how would it structure its
perception of those it turns out that this bethe variational auto encoder is
able to find different angle dimensions in this chaos where for example here's a
dimension along which the rotation of the of the chair is discovered as one
independent dimension the width of the chair is discovered as another
independent dimension and the leg style is discovered as yet another independent
dimension so this algorithm is thrown at this collection of data and it discovers
what we would call natural factors in this data and that of course can be very
useful for downstream tasks in lecture 11 we'll talk about generative
adversarial networks this is delivered by Mahalo rasca and
Jeff Donohue and this is a particularly fascinating recent development namely a
model a generative model for data that is based on a little game that is being
played it's really multi agency to agency there are two planners the
generator that generates data and it discriminate that tries to discriminate
if I want to generate a generated if that's the genuine image for the data or
if it's just something that there was Maori generate and by thing is name in
gradient space if you like this is gonna make it becomes better measuring what
the generals from real data but the generator becomes better and better at
fooling the discriminator to generate data that really looks like real data
and there are now many variations of this it's in Goodfellow started this
work in 2014 and it's it's one of the very interesting and hot topics in deep
learning now finally and I'm very happy that we have this in the program the
last lecture will be on the topic of responsible innovation and will be given
by our son Gabriel and Charlie chin and the thought here is that AI provides
powerful tools that are shaping our lives and our society but that of course
with the great power that we can wield here also comes great responsibility and
we would like to address that in this final lecture in two ways the first one
is about building safe robust and verified AI systems that do what we
like them to do for example you hear you see an example of an adversarial example
where a classifier classifies this image correctly as a deer but if you add just
a tiny bit of noise to it the right kind of noise adversarial noise it will then
miss classify almost the same image as a bird so these systems are not robust and
we need to understand the boundaries of what these systems can do and there's a
whole field developing around this idea that we need our AI systems to be a lot
like normal engineering reliable and robust and so on and we're beginning to
understand how to do this better and better and the second aspect of this
lecture is how to think about the ethics ethical consequences of building AI
systems and more as a joke and the starting point I've put here the Three
Laws of Robotics by Asimov the science fiction writer because you know already
80 years ago he was thinking about the consequences of deploying AI systems in
the world and had some idea of how they would need to be thought about the
ethics of this and what kinds of laws they should be following and of course
now we are confronted with systems that actually do influence the world you know
you have questions of employment where where there's automation and AI systems
can now do a lot of the jobs that that humans can do more and more in the
future probably you have the questions of of bias and fairness that these
systems inherit certain properties from the datasets that they learned from that
we might not agree with and that we might want to change maybe an
opportunity to change some things here and so yes and we'll we'll talk about
these aspects of our work in AI close the series of lectures okay that's all I
had to say thank you very much now we have some time for questions do you have
any yes please yes so the question is what are the most important limitations
of deep learning and if there are any there are plenty I would say it's an
emergent technology if I had to name my number one it would be the lack of data
efficiency so with all of these examples I've shown we had a lot of data
available in these reinforcement learning scenarios we generated a lot of
that data ourselves but in other settings we might need to draw on
existing data sets and they might just be limited in size for example in the
protein folding situation we have these 150,000 folded proteins with a lot of
duplicates but that's not actually that much data for what deep learning
requires and my colleagues used a lot of data augmentation techniques to squeeze
out the maximum of information out of this so that would be my number one data
efficiency because as humans we are also we're very data efficient in our
learning and if we could approach that with deep learning I think that would be
great another one of my concerns that is a little related to it is energy
consumption because these computational systems also consume a lot of energy and
we know that our brain works on roughly 20 watts like that's a dim light bulb so
how how can we bridge that gap that's another one of those and then on the
side of a I I think there's way to go in questions like flexibility and common
sense you know what we might characterize as fluid intelligence our
it to quickly adapt to a new question to a
new situation to understand to act appropriately those are the big areas to
work on plenty of key ftcc's out there yeah so I think they go in the right
directions but they're really only the the beginning of the path the goal your
you asked you correctly characterizes that we want this generality these many
different things and how do how do these settings help us in the entire games
there clearly is a set of very different games that characterize you know that
that require a very different behavior so there is some diversity there is it
enough diversity you know ideally we would have a less constrained setting
more real-world noisier with more different challenges that's true but I
think you have to see the trend you know for example in alphago we started with a
single game and a lot of human knowledge that came into it and then we
generalized it to three different games that the system can now play and of
course it could be trained on other games as well so we expanded the class
of things and I think the game we're playing here is we want to always expand
the class of things that we can do with our available methods and and eventually
have a very large pool of things that can be done yes that's a good question so does this
autonomous driving take us somewhere near our real intelligence because it
requires the right reaction in so many different scenarios another way that we
think about this is is autonomous driving AI complete is it true that if
you can flawlessly drive and have a self-driving car does that mean that you
have a full intelligence and I think it's it's kind of in between but because
there still comes some constraints there but it is it's almost like that because
there is such a wide variety of different scenarios as you're describing
and currently systems don't have the flexibility to react to these so I don't
think the the right approach here is to to just add data and try to sample that
space of situations we need to come up with new ideas how the system can reason
about about the world you know maybe with physical models maybe with multi
agent models because a lot of the predictions we do in in traffic are
based on our understanding of what the other agents want you know does this
agent want to dis car want to overtake me what does that bicycle ride I want to
do do they want to turn so all of these things so I think as we improve our
understanding of how to model physical systems how to model multi-agent systems
and how to acquire common sense then we'll be approaching autonomous driving
it's a beautiful example because it's kind of it's so clear what we want to do
here in autonomous driving yet it is so hard other questions yes please that's a good question are we entering
into the new caste competition I don't know
but my colleagues are certainly very passionate about the problem and and
work has continued on protein folding for us this protein folding this this
was one step in that work and but we're in that for the long term so they are
certainly interested yes please right yeah so the question is if we do
reinforcement learning with say two agents that train against one another
will they explore the whole space of possibilities or could they be get stuck
in some particular part of strategy space so that's that's a very real
concern even in a single agent reinforcement learning setting the
problem of exploration versus exploitation is a huge problem so in
order to reach long-term reward maximize long-term reward the agent needs to
explore the system and figure out what works and what doesn't but at the same
time it can then not exploit what it already knows about the system because
if it only exploits it will not find out about other parts of that space so even
in single agent RL exploration is a huge problem in a 2-player self play kind of
scenario it can be a problem but we were able to overcome it with a bit of
randomization in in alpha zero that has somehow led led it to explore a lot of
other options but in the capture-the-flag work we went one step
further and we created a pool of diverse players that play differently and and
that was in an attempt to address exactly the problem we're pointing out
because that a single player then to have a strategy
that can deal with a number of other opponent strategies and even teammate
strategies and they that's the same type of robustness that that we're looking
for in other intelligent systems you know be able to deal with a large
variety of situations p-nut environments or opponents or teammates that's exactly
the question yeah again that's a very good question how do we measure that one
way of measuring it is by doing experiments with humans because humans
are incredibly good at figuring out the patterns and finding counter strategies
and that's why we did both in alpha go and alpha zero but also in the capture
the flag work we benchmarked with humans and they did find some interesting
strategies an alternative is to Train yet another agent that is just designed
to exploit the given agent that that we're trying to test it's just designed
to find the weaknesses in it and if reinforcement learning works then that
agent will find weaknesses in it and in the alpha star work where my colleagues
applied deep learning and RL to the game of StarCraft they had explicit exploiter
agents in the pool they were training against whose sole role was to exploit
the given agents as being trained to avoid it from developing degenerate
strategies any other questions yes you immediately works for such as in
makeup to the black case where you never work for tagging the therapist if you
capture many points for that your agent might decide to ignore the
game and just go around attacking enemies yeah a nice place and if that's
true yes that's that's a good question so it is a big problem how do we specify
a reward function such that the resulting system that optimizes them
actually solves the problem that were interested in and the the answer is
sometimes simple in the game of go that last you know you want a win rather than
lose so there is clear in the game of capture the flag it's also clear you
also want to win that game but it's such a spaz reward signal that you want
intermediate rewards and the way we did it in that work I didn't dwell on that
is we actually learned a wait for the different game events that we can
observe you know capture a flag tag an opponent be tagged your flag being stole
and so on there's a whole list of game events those are the events that real
players of this game gets points for in the game and we learned a waiting
function for these and the weighting function was learned to optimize for the
final outcome go up and so there is a way of bootstrapping the learning
process from the final outcome to denser more informative reward signals that the
RL agents can then pick up on it's one way of solving it I think okay I'm
afraid you need to wrap up our terms up I hope we can welcome you to the next
lecture on the basics of neural networks by a Vortech have a great evening
Thanks you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: vcLU0DhDhi0 (https://youtu.be/vcLU0DhDhi0) ===


[Music] so here we are the last episode in this series of the deep mind podcast my name is Hanna Frey I am a mathematician and someone who is deeply intrigued by artificial intelligence much like you I imagine since you made it this far now we've been toying with the big questions in this series what is intelligence how does an algorithm learn and what to do with the AI future once we get there and I've been asking the team of scientists and engineers here at deep mind to give us their take of where things are at and where they're going but now for this final episode we have a chance to catch up with demis hassabis the co-founder and CEO of deepmind to hear what he has to say on these questions and more demos SRBs grew up in North London in the 1970s by the age of 13 he was ranked second in the world at chess in his age group at 16 he worked as a games designer remember theme park that was him then he went on to study computer science and then neuroscience before setting up deep mind with his two co-founders Shane Lake and Mustafa Suleiman his accomplishments are ferociously intimidating but as an article in The Times put it Dennis doesn't even have the good grace to be socially deficient but if all of that makes it sound like Dimas is a man with a plan then you'd be right I had in mind something like creating a company like deep mind to research AI from a long time ago so I was sort of working back from the end state which is what would I need what skills would I need what experiences do I need to even stand a chance of building something like that because these different aspects of your life the chest the neuroscience the games designed they're not disconnected I mean they do build to a bigger picture they do and it's hard to say which way round it is so I picked those subjects and those things to study say computer science at Cambridge and then cognitive neuroscience at UCL because I wanted this component of computer science and neuroscience to come together and obviously that was what we do at deep mind but even the game staff that taught me about creative thinking also a massive engineering projects and then of course it's ended up that we've used games as our main vehicle for proving out our AI algorithms one other thing I've learned from games is to use every scrap of asset that you have luck in games you always have a limited resource pool like you know if it's a chess game it's the chess pieces you have left on the board and one way to think about games is maximizing the use of the of the assets you have left perhaps that's why I was biased towards using games but I also felt it was the logical way to go about building AI what was your PhD in my PhD was in cognitive neuroscience and I actually decided to study how memory and imagination works in the brain and the reason I chose cognitive neuroscience is I wanted to better understand how the brain does certain cognitive functions so that perhaps we could be inspired on new types of algorithms based on how the brain works and so it's a good idea to pick functions that we don't know how to do in AI and I went to study with Elinor McGuire at UCL and she's one of the world's leading experts in the hippocampus which is critical for memory but I told her that what I really wanted to look at was imagination which is you can also think of it as simulating things in the future in your mind for obviously useful for planning but also for creativity and the reason I was interested in that is of course that's an incredibly important part of human intelligence and it's also something I used a lot in my games design career so I used a lot of visualization techniques and imagining how would a player viscerally like play this game like theme park and then you try and change something about it all in your mind before or in Skechers before you went to the trouble of programming all and it felt to me that we were using a similar type of process to the way when we lucidly remember things that happened to us so I thought there may be there would be a connection with this kind of you could imagine like a simulation engine of the mind that was being used both for imagination and memory and that's what I wanted to work on during my PhD and we ended up discovering something quite important that then in fact the hippocampus was at the core both of those two types of function is critical for memory which we already know but it's also critical for imagination and you can't really imagine vividly without your hippocampus so we ended up discovering this important thing and then subsequently that's been at the heart of a lot of what we've tried to do in AI is build memory and imagination abilities into our AI systems and we're still doing that now when it comes to bringing those ideas across and trying to implement them in AI where do you find that balance between just directly copying what the brain is doing and using it for inspiration so that's a very important signpost when you're scrabbling around in the dark of in the unknown of science any signpost is really valuable and the brain is the only existence proof we have in the universe that intelligence is possible so it always felt to me that it would be crazy to ignore that as a source of information of how to build AI so we use neuroscience for two things one is inspiration for new ideas about algorithms or architectures or representations that the brain uses and then we can get some inspiration for that for new types of algorithms the second way we use neuroscience is what I call for validation so we may already have some idea from coming from engineering or mathematics about how to build a learning system let's say reinforcement learning that came from engineering disciplines and operational research first but then in the 90s we discovered that the brain also implements a form of reinforcement learning and what that means is is that from an AI perspective you can be sure that reinforcement learning could plausibly be a component part of an AI system because it's in the brain and we know the brain is a general intelligence so that means that's really important if you're thinking about where to put your engineering resources and effort you know that if it doesn't work right now and things never work first time in research or engineering it's worthwhile pushing that harder because you know eventually this must work because the proof of concept is the brain having said that though there are another school of thought from AI practitioners and neuroscientists that we need to slavish ly copy the brain completely from the bottom up like on a neuronal level and I think that's also the wrong approach what we're after is what I call a systems neuroscience approach which is that you're in stood in the algorithms and the architectures that the brain is using not necessarily the exact implementation details because I think that's likely to be different for in silico systems like computers compared to carbon based systems like our minds there's no reason to think that we would implement exactly the same implementation details in a silicon-based system that's going to have different strengths and weaknesses to a carbon-based system like our minds [Music] normally tech startups have customers they have products but this is sort of more like a start-up research facility yes how do you get something like that off the ground it's pretty hard I mean you're right in that it's a very unusual company what I try to do is basically take the best from the startup world the kind of focus and energy and pace that you get in the best startups say in Silicon Valley and I wanted to combine that with the best form academia which is you know blue sky thinking incredibly bright people working on you know long-term big research questions and stepping into the unknown all the time and you know obviously I spend some time in academia myself and there's very great aspects about academia but there's also some things that are frustrating mostly around the organizational aspects and the pace of it can sometimes be slower than you would like it's difficult to get momentum behind things in the way you can a startup if it's you know if things are going well but I when I was in academia and I had already obviously started and been involved with a few startups before going back to do my PhD so I'd experienced both sides and I didn't feel like there was any reason why these should be mutually exclusive environments although they have generally been treated as very different almost opposite environments and there's a lot of things that do seem opposite but I felt if if you were kind of smart about it you could extract the best of both those worlds and combine them into some kind of hybrid organization and I feel that's what the mind is and I don't think many people have ever done that and and so that's why it seems quite strange probably as a zatia n-- i think we've shown with our scientific output even if you measure it by normal measures nature science papers this kind of thing that normal academic labs would measure themselves by we've been very successful and i think you know we've a bee net also on the other side of things we've been able to produce really big breakthroughs that took a lot of engineering effort as well like alphago which would have been very difficult i think to do in academia in a normal you know small academic lab one other thing that makes deep mind i guess a bit unusual is that you publish your work I mean other companies don't really do this is there somewhere that you're kind of giving away your competitive advantage really yes an interesting issue actually so we've always published everything we've done and lots of companies do want to you know why we're doing that because a lot of other companies don't necessarily do that we feel it's part of the scientific discourse like that's the right way to do science we really believe in sort of peer-reviewed journals so that your work is scrutinized at the highest level by your peers which is the bina the gold standard in science that's why we publish in the top journals like Nature and Science also you do get more exposure for your ideas like that so some of our top papers have been cited like more than 5,000 times now in the last two three years some of the most cited papers in the world so that's great you know and I think if a community shares ideas like that the whole field can advance much more quickly than if everyone was to keep their ideas secret but you know there are some interesting aspects to that one is the competitive side I mean I feel there that you just need to carry on innovating at a faster pace than anyone else that's the most important thing not trying to keep hold of the ideas you've already innovated you should just be by the time you've you know you've published it you should be one or two idea is even further down the line if you're continuing to work at the same pace and the same level of innovation so I think that's really the biggest sort of protection against competitors is your pace of innovation in the early days I mean back in sort of you know 2009-2010 when AI wasn't the hot topic that perhaps is today did you find it difficult to get attention from from the people master I mean I think I remember reading that you you decided to go straight for billionaires rather than millionaires yeah to investment yes well that was incredibly tough so it's really hard to remember now even for me like ten years ago you know no one was investing in AI it was a impossible thing to get money for actually you know no one would invest and it's still very difficult today I think on it at what I would call a deep technology or science based startup right and with no clear product in mind I mean what we were basically saying is we were going to build this incredible general purpose technology that as it got more powerful there should be a myriad of things you could just apply it to but you know that sounds probably pretty far-fetched to a normal kind of investor it was almost like well that's what academia is for isn't it you should be just if you don't know you know it's blue sky research we don't know when it's going to work it's it's pure research then go and do that for another ten years in academia and then come and talk to them when it's working but that would have been too slow and I could see that within academia so then that's why I decided not to go after normal venture capitalist who certainly in Europe and in the UK you know they would want to make 10x return maybe within three to five years right that's the kind of time horizon of course that's no good for a research based company you know you have barely got going after three years right so what you need is a profile investor who is more interested in thousand X returned but they're willing to wait ten years maybe even twenty years and that kind of profile of an investor basically just does not exist in Europe certainly did in the back in 2010 really you're talking about Silicon Valley self-made billionaires I guess who both have deep enough pockets to take that kind of bet and if it doesn't work it's okay but they're also personally interested in these types of topics and have seen incredibly ambitious things work because usually that's how they've made their money just going back to the idea of how everything sort of slots into place all the different aspects all the different pressures that you have slots in space didn't chess play a role in you getting your first funding yes it hits so chess has been key you know core part of my personality I guess it because I've been playing it for so long and I think a lot of my thought processes developed because of that so planning and thinking about problem solving all of these aspects which I think for any thing you do in your life but it also turned out to be useful directly because one of the first investors we talked to was a chess player themselves and a pretty strong junior chess player in the US and when we were doing sort of our background reading on this we spent about a year preparing for this meeting almost and it was important meeting because we knew that not very many people would get what we were doing and this was one of the people we felt that would so it was important and we couldn't get a meeting because we had no contacts in Silicon Valley you know I didn't know anyone over there in California nor did Shane and Mustafa you know and it's sort of how do you break into that world and so we finally managed to get asked to a conference where this billionaire was sponsoring and then we knew we would meet him at some kind of after conference party but the problem is is that there are hundreds of people all trying to pitch him their ideas so if you if you're just another one pitching you're another crazy idea it's very unlikely you're gonna get noticed right so I thought instead of that I'll take this calculated risk and talk to him about chess instead but then you have to have something interesting to say about chess that maybe haven't thought of so I used my number one fact on chess that even surprises grandmasters which is the thinking about it from a games designer point of view you know why is chess such a great game how did it evolve into such a great game and what is it that makes it so great and my belief is that it's actually because of the creative tension of the bishop a knight the bishop and I are basically worth the same there three points each so you can swap them off but they have completely different powers and that asymmetry the sort of creative asymmetry that happens with the bishop and knights being swapped into various positions I think is what makes chess a fascinating game and so I basically pretty much led that with that line I don't know how I managed to crowbar that into a drinks party but I did and it made him sort of stop and think which is exactly what I was hoping and then he invited us back the next day to do a proper picture on our business idea so we actually got half an hour with him rather than one minute over over some drinks so that actually you know worked out so you could say chess works on two levels in the meta level of planning for that and also actually chesses and tweaking subjects in itself so actually getting funding from billionaires is really spent the year studying their interests come up with a genius idea that will catch their attention in a way you can do a good picture after that exactly easy simple very straightforward one thing that you hear time and time again in this building and actually throughout this podcast series is how deep my wants to use artificial intelligence to solve everything so here is the chance to ask what do they actually mean by that do they want to be the ones addressing every one of the world's problems once intelligence is cracked so I you know I have a list it's a working list of a dozen to a couple of dozen of scientific problems that I feel are these kinds of root node problems and if we could crack all of those then I feel like that would transform society for the better and open up all sorts of areas in you know medicine and science for us to make breakthroughs in go and give me the list some of the lists of things like I think a key thing we need to crack is cheap abundant energy that's renewable and clean and so if there's fusion or just way better solar panels with way better batteries with room-temperature superconductors that would also solve that problem so you know I think there's a number of solutions to that some a material science solution some of physics solutions and we should have a go cracking all of those but if you crack that then that would open up all sorts of new issues so I'll give you an example water access access to clean water is going to become increasingly more important as the population in the world grows right and it's already becoming in some countries more valuable than oil because you know there's just so little fresh clean water around right for a lot of communities so they specially poor communities this incredible problem but we have a solution already its desalination right 70 percent of the earth is water but it's saltwater so how do we deal with that well desalination technologies exist the problem is they cost too much energy they're too costly so some rich countries can do it so I think Israel gets a lot of their water like this and some other countries like that but for the poor countries it's too expensive so if you solved the renewable a clean-energy problem then you would automatically solve the water access problem almost straight away because that's actually the issue so where do you want to be when the water salination problem is solved where do you fit into that story I hope that we will have been integral in coming up with those solutions by doing something say in fusion or in material science more likely where we've come up with using an alpha zero like system you know the battery that is 50 percent more efficient and cost a tenth of the price of current batteries and lasts you know ten times longer you know we would come up with a solar panel photovoltaics material that is twice as efficient at converting heat energy into electrical energy so it will be something like that would then unlock the possibility of making desalination within reach of every community perhaps there has to be some improvement with the desalination technology itself as well and maybe we could be involved in that but you know we're relatively small company so and we're going to stay relatively small so we have to be efficient with the solutions that we work on this all just comes at least from my perspective from rationally logically thinking out what's the best thing you can do and what's happened so far looking at civilization in this I mean maybe you could say as a slightly strange way of looking at it but I think it's the correct way to look at things and I think most people just don't think about questions in the right way and maybe that's what I've done in my whole life is try to ask for the right questions and I feel like this is the obvious answer this is deep mind the podcast an introduction to AI one of the most fascinating fields in science today okay I always say to people whatever your question the answer is AI because it sort of is in the limit right I mean that's a little bit flippantly but I mean in the limit it must be because the answer so far you know why we're here while we're talking while using these Khmer zhing computers and devices is because of intelligence human intelligence and I think it's miraculous and the scientific method another miraculous thing I think that the greatest discovery of all is that the scientific method works you know the Enlightenment and why should it be I mean also you must have to question things like that why should the universe work like that that the scientific method works you know it could be a little bit more random then he'll be really confusing right if sometimes the Sun rose and sometimes it didn't requires to do science then why sometimes he repeated the experiment with exactly same conditions something else something something different happened but it doesn't this world doesn't seem to work like that it seems to be repeatable it seems to be consistent so therefore knowledge is possible and incredibly strangely our brains even though they're evolved hunter-gathering can somehow deal with it which is kind of Iraq Yunus in itself so how can you not want to a work on those questions and B why would there be limits to what that is capable of doing but the ultimate goal in all of this is to create artificial general intelligence exactly what is meant by that nothing yeah artoo there's not an agreed definition of artificial general intelligence but the way that Shane and I think about artificial general intelligence is a system that is capable of a wide range of tasks and if we think about human level artificial intelligence then we're talking about system that can pretty much do the full spectrum of cognitive tasks that humans can at least as good as humans are able to do that's you know one reasonable definition of artificial general intelligence what's the threshold for atid how will you know when you're done that's a philosophical issue of like how do we know we're done with building a GI certainly for me I'm waiting to see a lot of key moments for example I think a really big moment will be when an AI system comes up with a new scientific discovery that's of Nobel prize-winning level that to me would be a big watershed moment and I think an important step in the capabilities of these systems so you know capable some kind of true creativity in some sense I think other big points will be when it can use language and converse with us in a naturalistic way it's capable of learning abstract concepts these are all things that I think a high-level cognitive abilities that we're nowhere near yet and I think it'll be big so I'm posts on the way when were you convinced that all of this was possible well I've had this in mind since my early teens I probably read way too much so far I'm guessing some were really formative things on me were Asimov's foundation series so interestingly not the robotics books I haven't really read any of his robot books but the foundation series was this really amazing series of sci-fi novels and then Ian banks has culture series which is the sort of space opera about how the universe would look after humanity's bill AI and coexist with it and then a really big scientific book for me was when I was writing theme park obviously I was working on AI and building AI for the game but I was also reading books like girdle or bark by Hofstadter which I suppose is more of a philosophy book but it's an incredible piece of work tying together girdle's incompleteness theorem about mathematics with Asher's drawings and bass fugues and showing that they're all related in some way this repeating cycle of pattern is infinite patterns that they they all exhibit and then he tied it to consciousness and intelligence and it was just really inspiring for me and made me think about these deep questions and I was discussing this with a lot of my friends who were you know we're writing games together we were doing that 24/7 and we would discuss these things about what the limits of AI could be if we could not just use it for what we were doing in games but actually advance it to the level where it become the same level as human and I just felt like the sky was the limit I mean maybe another way I can put it is if you look around us today you know you look at modern civilization it's incredible well what built modern civilization intelligence did right that's what building human intelligence and if you were to take us back to our hunter-gatherer days 1020 thousand years ago 30,000 years ago and you were to say one day we're gonna build Manhattan and then fly over from London to Manhattan and on a 747 regularly above the clouds I mean what would you have said that it would be mind-boggling right and yet humanity's done that incredibly and I don't think we stopped to think how amazing that is enough because the other thing about the human brain is is incredibly adaptable right as soon as something you know we do something and then it becomes kind of boring a Monday and then it's trivial right but I always think about that one I'm taking a transatlantic flight about how have we with our monkey brains managed to come up with these types of technologies it's unbelievable 100 ton of metal flying through the sky above the clouds so reliably and so if you think about that then if we now build something like AG iron in and enhance our own capabilities with this amazing tool then I feel like almost anything might be possible within the laws of physics and perhaps even beyond the laws of physics because with AI we might discover more about the laws of physics or some holes or flaws in our understanding of the laws of physics so if you think about that and you extrapolate it a few hundred more years with these kinds of technologies like AGI around and then what we might be able to build with AGI I think it could be truly incredible where we'll be and I feel it will be something like with the realization of the true potential of humanity but however exciting the grand ambition of AGI is there is also a need to proceed with caution we're cognizant of some of the technical questions around AGI making sure that they do exactly what we want how do we program in our values how do we specify our goals so these are all the theoretical and technical questions around AGI that people like Nick Bostrom are worried about and so we and the Schoen leads our safety team that works on a lot of these questions from a research and technical perspective and I think there's a lot more work that needs to be done there and I think that's what we're going to see over the next decade or two but I mean even if you proceed with caution even if you act as safely as you possibly can based on the information that you have in front of you at that moment you can't really mitigate against bad actors you can't stop someone else coming in and mucking up for everyone or can you I think there are ways of minimizing that I think we'll have to think carefully about that like at the moment we are at the stage where these systems are still quite nascent they can do impressive things like play go but they are not yet properly general-purpose or you know you couldn't use them for anything very dangerous or in the real world so we've committed that we won't do certain applications you know obviously like things like military and surveillance so which we think would be bad for society we don't think AI should be applied to those things and we certainly wouldn't do ourselves but if you publish some great algorithms you have to think about the indirect impact of that if other people bad actors and so on around the world potentially use your algorithms for things that you would not have agreed with we have to use this time now to think about what principles need to be put in place whether that is carefully thought-out regulation whether that is technical solutions to these problems mathematical proofs more engineering solutions so like one of the projects we have here we call it the virtual brain analytics project and it's inspired by what we do in neuroscience with fMRI machines - brain scan people while they're doing tasks and see what parts of the brain light up so we can understand what the brain is doing better and we should be doing the equivalent of that with our virtual brains our artificial neural networks so I think there's both sort of behavioral there's experimental understanding and them as mathematical understanding of these systems and we should do all of those and what I'm hoping is that we'll eventually in the next few years have a much better understanding of these systems than we have today and we may even have some mathematical proofs about what if you want to limit a system in a certain way what you need to do what components do you require also you know we have to think about publications and other stuff that we talked about earlier whether this free exchange of of information and knowledge is okay even under situations where there are potentially dangerous applications and where I would take our lead from this is not the first time again this has happened you know this has happened a lot in biology with designing synthetic biology and viruses embryology now with CRISPR so boa G actually has a long-standing multi-decade experience of coming together with wider society and the scientists and and regulatory bodies and figuring out what are the rules of the road that it's safe for everybody and I think that's the kind of coordination we're going to have to have over the next decade where do you see deep minder city in terms of the broader tech industry in terms of ethics and safety are people following your lead we're only one company but we are the biggest probably group anywhere in the world and we you know are definitely one of the world leaders and acknowledged as so so that gives us a powerful platform to set an example we can create ishutin upon AI which is a cross industry initiative to talk about some of these issues in products and we've also sponsored a lot of academic groups we've given the money for postdocs and the things arms-length to study this we have close contacts with a lot of the Institute's that work on these things like the future of humanity institutes just down the road Oxford we talk with them all the time and we ourselves as leaders at deep mind we've always talked about ethics and I've always had that at mine and the reason we have from the beginning of deep mind is that we plan for success so if we're earning all these ambitious things for AI to do then we also need to think carefully about what would that mean and so we're doing a lot of things behind the scenes and I think by sort of being an example that will influence everybody else I'm hoping given that we're in the lead technologically so for the moment that's why I think also it's very important we have a technical lead because why would anyone listen to what you have to say on the ethics one if you're not one of the leaders technologically right then you could just be you know any group saying that so I think to have a seat at the table whether that's a country or a company or even individual you need for credibility purposes you have to be close to the forefront of the technical technical side itself where does the public fit into all of this do you need to have the trust in you as a technology company or do they need to be on board at all can you kind of do it without no it's really critical that this is discussed at large with society in everybody and the general public and I think they need to engage I mean the poem is is that a lot of these technical things are very complex and you need PhD to understand them and so on but some of the fundamentals are quite easy to understand and what you really need to understand is the consequences of it and then society has to decide as I said before about how these things get used and how the benefits accrue to different people and society and make sure that that is fair and I think that's the key thing is to engage with the public now and try and educate them about some of the complexities of the technology but also the implications misses partly what things like this podcast series is about but also we've done a lot of public engagement with the Royal Society the UN day.i series that we did last year and I think a lot more of that has to be done are you optimistic about the future yeah I'm very optimistic about the future but the reason I'm optimistic is because I think AI is coming down the road and I feel like if we build it in the right way and we deploy it in the right way for the benefit of everyone I think it's going to be the most amazing transformative technology that humanities ever invented and I would be quite pessimistic about some of the problems that we are facing as a society like climate change and sustainability or inequality I think these are going to get exacerbated in the next few years and I'd be pessimistic about our ability to solve that if there wasn't something like AI on the way in the near future I think in order to solve some of these big problems challenges society has we either need an exponential improvement in human behavior more cooperation less selfishness more collaboration or we need an exponential improvement in technology and unfortunately the way politics is going right now I don't really see much evidence of the former and you know we don't seem to be able to get our act together globally to do something about climate anywhere near fast enough to deal with the problem and so I think we have to double down on a technical solution at least we should try both but I think we need some technology bets it's hard not to be inspired by Demeter's insatiable thirst for knowledge and find yourself drawn in by his positive view of the future because if I'm honest I'm normally quite skeptical but I have a lot of time for overly optimistic marketing talk and one of my favorite hobbies is to roll my eyes at self-titled futurists at tech conferences but you know over the last 12 months I've spent hanging around here I've come to the conclusion that there really is something quite special going on at the cutting edge of AI after 50 years of quite slow progress it really feels as though the field is finally beginning to deliver the problems that everyone thought were completely out of reach only a few short years ago are tumbling one by one and the science is moving forward at a blistering pace both here and at research labs all around the world and the questions that people are working on are profound and important including some of the potential pitfalls and ethical concerns of this kind of technology so with all of that in mind I think I'm going to join in demouth in being optimistic about the future and the potential of AI to be a real positive force for good but don't just take my word for it as we've said throughout this podcast we hope to in are you on your own a I'd Ernie maybe even by finding the answers to some of the biggest questions there are I'm not intrapreneur a second I'm a scientist first it's just that this was the right vehicle to make this happen and it seems to have worn out but if I could have made it happen in academia or just done it in academia it just wasn't possible under the constraints academia has and that's why we also sold the company to Google because it was about what accelerates the mission and the science and ultimately that's what I want to do if my life is I want to understand what's going on here in the universe both inside here in the brain and externally out there in the universe and I guess that's what's always driven me is this deep desire to understand what seems to me be incredibly interesting and fascinating mysteries that are going all around us and I don't really understand why more people don't think about that all the time I can barely sleep because I'm just fascinated and also troubled by the things around us that we seemingly don't understand all the big questions you know the meaning of life have the universe star what is consciousness all these questions which I feel like a blaring klaxon in my mind that I would like to understand and my attempt at doing that is to build AI first if you would like to find out more about some of the things that we've talked about in this episode or explore the world of AI research beyond deep mind you'll find plenty of useful links in the show notes for each episode and if there are stories or a sources that you think other listeners would find helpful then let us know you can message us on Twitter or email the team at podcast that deepmind comm you can also use that address to send us your questions or feedback on the series deep mind the podcast has been a whistle down production binaural sound recordings were by Lucinda Mason Brown the music from the series has been specially composed by Elena Shaw producers were Amy racks and Dan Hardin the senior producer was Louisa Field and the series editor was David pressed I'm Hanna Frey thank you for listening

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: yf31XT1G1RQ (https://youtu.be/yf31XT1G1RQ) ===


welcome to deep mind the podcast where we're exploring the world of artificial intelligence we're assessing what we know and what we don't know we're looking at what we're trying to know we're calculating what we will know mapping out where we're going and working out how we will know when we get there I'm Hanna Frey and I'm an associate professor in mathematics and I spent the last 12 months at deepmind and in this episode we are going to start looking forwards to the future the self schooled variety of AI known as artificial general intelligence but first you know what I don't feel like we really given you the Grand Tour of this place deep mind headquarters in Kings Cross in London so follow me in my squeakiest of sneakers closed doors coming through so the language they do machine learning understanding language with me is the extremely likeable Coria Caracciolo one of the right firsts deepmind is joining way back in 2012 is actually it's a group of people who are either focused on agents better memory more planning how can we get him get those into the agents all of your rooms are named after famous mathematicians Gauss room Hedy Lamarr Oh actually I know her I know her she's actually a very famous actress you know I liked her best in I take this woman with Spencer Tracy but she was actually also scientists right the deep learning group is more interested in just like coming up with algorithms and architectures on any data domain some seriously delicious equations on the whiteboard I've learned yes I mean blackboards and whiteboards if you have an idea in the corridor it's important use it this area is the machine learning so one of the main projects going on here with this group is the imitation just just demo so Sabres in the office this is the area for the neuroscience group they do a lot of thinking about what are the important problems what are the challenges that the discipline is really hard yeah table football seven of my course a regress ah the reinforcement learning team this is one area that has been core to what we try to achieve with a GI if you're interested in agents it has to be active they've got some proper weight eat expose that's not not exactly bedtime raging is a molecular electronic structure theory I know what all of those words mean but just not in that particular order sweeping funds sleeping I didn't know that they've been coming in for a year no one told me about these there anyone in there look in my defense she didn't have a Do Not Disturb sign on the door okay enough of that already back to the simple stuff like solving the Enigma of intelligence just one tiny snag before we get there first we're gonna need a proper definition of what intelligence is because intelligence you see it's quite a slippery beast to pin down [Music] we've got a bit of a head start when it comes to human intelligence although it might not be everyone's favorite metric IQ is one of the most stable psychological tests we have and it does a pretty good job of measuring limited intelligence markers like reasoning and logic but IQ still doesn't get us any closer to a definition of intelligence if we're going to get anywhere with this we need to define it properly we need some way to capture what we mean by intelligence that works just as well for humans and dogs as rabbits and machines and there have been a few suggestions for what intelligence is over the years in 1921 the psychologist V Henman said intelligence was the capacity for knowledge and knowledge possessed which sounds quite good on the surface until you realize that it also applies to libraries libraries can possess knowledge do libraries count as intelligent probably not in 1985 Marvin Minsky the cognitive scientist said that he thought intelligence was the ability to solve hard problems and that seems a bit more like it it also captures what a eye has already proved it can do here's Riya Hansel senior research scientist at deep mind in the last few years there's a huge number of different narrow specific things that programs can do as well as a human they can interpret your voice as well as a human they can maybe translate from English to French and back again almost as well as a human they can recognize things and images almost as well as a human these sort of narrow specific things that word narrow is not to downplay the transformative power of this sort of thing just in this series we've looked at energy conservation medical diagnosis and protein folding all of which certainly show the machines ability to solve hard problems and all of which are examples of narrow AI but real intelligence general intelligence that needs something else something more some scientists have described intelligence as the capacity to learn or to profit by experience others think it's about adapting and thriving in the environment you find yourself in but whoever you are smart disagree that's somewhere along the line intelligence is something about your ability to interact with an external environment and being able to adapt has to be part of it too so you can't be fully familiar with the environment you've got to be able to deal with unanticipated challenges that get thrown at you if you're intelligent in 2007 after going through hundreds of competing arguments Shayne leg one of the three co-founders of deep mind wrote an influential paper in which he and his co-author tried to pin down precisely what was meant by intelligence and here is the definition that they came up with intelligence measures an agent's ability to achieve goals in a wide range of environments and that is what they are aiming for in this building here's a reminder of what a senior research scientist Maurice Shanahan told us in Episode four the holy grail of AI research is to build artificial general intelligence so to build AI that is as good at doing an enormous variety of tasks as we humans are so we are not specialists in that kind of way you know a young adult human can learn to do a huge number of things and can indeed do an enormous number of things and can adapt to a huge number of different challenges you can learn to make food you can learn to make a company you can learn to build things to fix things you can do so many things to have conversations to rear children so although those things and we really want to be able to build AI that has the same level of generality as that and that's really still an open challenge we don't really know quite how to get there but if anyone has an idea of what it will take its dem assess our best the CEO and co-founder of deepmind will be talking to him in the next episode of our Adi but for now here is a little glimpse into his thinking I'm waiting to see a lot of key moments for example I think a really big moment will be when an AI system comes up with a new scientific discovery that's of Nobel prize-winning level that to me would be a big watershed moment so you know capable some kind of true creativity in some sense I think other big points will be when it can use language and converse with us in a naturalistic way it's capable of learning abstract concepts these are all things that I think a high-level cognitive abilities that we're nowhere near yet and I think will be big so I'm posting on the way now it's reasonable to be asking yourself how do you even approach such a colossal task where do you even start do you totally and completely believe that AGI as possible yes back to my tour guide core I cover to Luke he's the director of research at deep mind I believe that they will come where we will be at that stage right now we are not right now all we can do is go back from that and then have a hypotheses about the important problems the important algorithms that we need to do the important solutions like those key things we need to have and then start building more and more and more so let's take an example then let's say the first day that someone at deepmind decided they wanted to look at the problem of navigation so building an agent that you can drop into an environment yes where it's going do you just have like a big brainstorm on a whiteboard of all of the different possible aspects that might contribute to being able to build that agent yeah it starts with that because if someone must work on something like that then probably there will be a good number of people here who would be interested in the same thing we will start discussing okay what is the goal like when we say navigation you gave a particularly good example right like going from here to a given location how are we going to specify it what kind of environment this is what kind of control space does the agent have all these start affecting what kind of algorithms we should use and are we going to do this purely from vision are we going to do this in a simple environment in a grid world or we're going to start from a grid world and then we need to think about the path towards going to a 3d environment are we thinking about actually also putting this on a robot like with real vision like all that discussion starts happening there's massive then I mean just that one form is enormous it is but that's why it's also research a big part of it is trying to constrain the problem space like being able to write down and specify what what you want to do and then making sure that it is actually a challenging problem and there are good metrics that we can quantify or we're saying you're successful right exactly and that itself as I said is quite an iterative process and getting that critique getting that view from other researchers starts at that point in time because like when the research is at the idea space at the initial stages it's actually quite important to formulate the right problems and and sort of the right context Adi is not going to happen overnight it's the reason why as you heard on the tour there are so many different research groups in this building you're not going to crack Adi by attacking on only one front a formulating the right problems means going beyond individual skills like navigation and drilling down into the building blocks of intelligence and - from the beginning of deepmind if the goal is about a GI then it has to invoke control it has to involve an active algorithm and that is why you need to do reinforcement learning that is why you need to work on agents we need agents that can interact with their environment that can learn through trial and error what actions to take what karai calls its policy it's a fundamental thing that you would expect to find in any intelligent being humans dogs or agents and so if the scientists can get it right in one application the lessons learned should apply elsewhere the gist of training an agent is you can start completely from scratch and then slowly the agent builds that knowledge that strategy of how to achieve a certain task and it creates it builds it comes up with its own strategies it comes up with its own policy so then of course looking at it and trying to understand does that pose make sense does that buy is it doing that policy sometimes it's so surprising because it's something that we haven't thought about before sometimes you look at it and you see that need that doesn't make sense yes it it achieves something but it's clearly not optimal can you remember when you first realized or believed that AGI was possible so we tried these agents on Atari games and they didn't do much and we couldn't we couldn't make them work right like there was a there was a team of like like like several people there and we couldn't make them work and then slowly we started simplifying the problem and simplifying the problems and find the problem and we ended up with a very tiny simple trivial problem like really just like a five pixel by 10 pixel image and one pixel moving in that image and the agent trying to control that and once we reduced the problem to that which I call the emne stuff reinforcement learning really we could find the working solution we started having this deep reinforcement learning agents working right because it's a simple problem of course you can write a program to solve that but the idea was like try to do deep reinforcement learning and try to solve it that way try to solve it from pixels try to come up with a system that we think can generalize to more to two different problems more problems and once we saw that actually it was a matter of weeks we had ten or fifteen Atari games like being sold like from that tiny thing in the matter of weeks you go to Atari that that was a big moment that's what we keep in going that like we select more and more diverse set of problems that we think are important at the end for AGI that is a key point here intelligence is an agents ability to achieve goals in a wide range of environments so to get to AGI we need agents to solve harder and more diverse problems you're listening to deepmind the podcast a window on AI research the closer we get to AGI the more powerful and sophisticated this technology gets and the more we rely on it in our everyday lives the more dramatic the consequences could be of us misunderstanding the limitations of the algorithms and that is why in parallel to pushing the science forward researchers are also working to ensure right now the agents are reliable adaptable and crucially not corruptible [Music] you show the image of a bus to a neural network and it will say this is a bus right there's a bus in this image well it turns out that you can take the same image modify it a little bit which is almost invisible to a human eye but the neural network will say that it's actually an ostrich this adversarial attacks are things some most of the time that are invisible to the human eye that doesn't change the actual content of the image too much we don't perceive it but because these are algorithms and bastes they're they are sensitive to even very small fluctuations in the input data then it changes it changes the output why does that matter why do you want to stop that from happening in the real world ai well for two reasons one of them as I said is robustness because when we trained these algorithms we want them to be useful in real world and we train them on datasets that we captured from real world but like you cannot know exactly what's going to happen of course what kind of data is going to be at the end of today this algorithm is going to consume so we want to make sure that the algorithms are robust to these kinds of potential like noise like things that you want your algorithm to be robust to that right and from another point of view it's about safety being able to say that like someone maybe with an adversarial intent won't be able to change the output of this algorithm output of this neural network just by making very small adjustments to the inputs we have a we have a whole research group actually on that on working on rigorous and more robust artificial intelligence because yes these are real things in the end we are training these algorithms and as I said it's not just like looking at them but we're trying to do more quantifiable research on understanding why they are doing what they are doing and trying to interpret that and part of it is also understanding how robust they are [Music] we have already seen real examples of just how fragile intelligence can be researchers have shown that you can add a little bit of black tape to a stop sign that will trick a driverless car into speeding up the tape is so subtle that it would look innocuous to a human driver but it's just enough to make the algorithms inside the car miss read it as a 45 mile an hour speed limit sign instead of an instruction to stop other scientists have worked out how to fool facial recognition algorithms into thinking someone is mere Yakov it just by making them wear a specially designed pair of tortoiseshell glasses and the images that are used for medical diagnosis can end up giving wildly inaccurate results just if a slightly different brand of scanner was used to take them you want to reach a state where you can actually guarantee that things like that won't happen that's the main idea behind doing this research so not sort of try to defend against particular adversarial attacks or examples but actually come up with systems that are going to be robust no matter what from the other point of view of course if you are thinking about agents there's the whole safety issue what do you mean when you guys talk about safety what are you actually talking about if we have an intelligent algorithm making decisions for itself you want to have some sort of guarantees that I mean it's acting with its own policy it is aligned with what you intended it to do if you think that these algorithms continued learning all the time then we want that process to be also producing an agent that is aligned with what we have intended for it to do fill in the gaps for me never give an example of what you're trying to avoid it becomes quite technical in the sense that it's not like you are trying to avoid the agent from making a mistake right because mistakes happen right like betraying policies and they are not always optimal data to the writing all the time it's not about that really it's more about you have a learning algorithm and you want to make sure that it sort of conforms to certain boundaries of behavior in essence if we can develop safe robust ethical AGI then the impact could be staggering but as demmas mentioned so too could the discoveries on the way to Adi has agent learned to solve increasingly hard problems Trevor back is a product manager for the deep mind science program he played a key role in the Moorfields Eye Hospital collaboration that we talked about in episode 5 but he also has a hand in deciding what the future holds for deep mind and what challenges and opportunities lay in store for them to tackle next so we're really at the stage of exploring what other areas we should work on but the possibilities are endless if you look at the way the alpha fold system works there's nothing really specific in there to protein folding it's around understanding the way that atoms interact the way that you can build material from base concepts so looking at material design is a really exciting stage you know could you design or imagine a high-temperature superconductor that's been sort of brought to life through an AI algorithm right is there more efficient ways of looking for those types of materials why do we care about high-temperature superconductors so this is the amazing opportunity of working in in science so our previous work in healthcare has been focused on very specific problems and it takes a lot of time and effort and energy to build an AI system that works for those specific problems if instead you can spend your time and energy solving a fundamental science question then perhaps you can you know instigate a whole new field of interest and potentially impact a much wider array of problems so why is superconductivity a problem you know if you could solve superconductivity not only could you you know solve a lot of the energy problems by having a larger genetic field around fusion but you could also create a new type of computing system you know there's lots of opportunities that come from just a single breakthrough in one of these areas I think it's important not to understate this because the idea that you could have some kind of an impact on nuclear fusion for example the implications for the earth and humanity are just enormous right exactly I think this is the reason I came to D mind was the opportunity to have the greatest impact I could in the world and I think AI is one of those revolutionary technologies that amazingly could you know impact everything we do but also everything we think about doing in the future and the sort of opportunity to explore and search the space of opportunities is really something that's well designed for AI to do it's a very efficient search algorithm and so if you're able to set up the problem in such a way that is searchable via a are you really could have 10 a hundredfold type of increase in the opportunity for finding novel materials or finding anomalies in astronomical data you know finding new types of stars finding more black holes you know all these types of opportunities are available simply via the application of AI and it's not stupid to say that actually lots of the biggest problems that face humanity at the moment are science problems right like you know access to food and water climate change healthcare all of these things is stuff that AI can make progress in I think that's right I think a lot of the the sort of physical problems that exist in the real world are certainly things that if you can make a difference to some of the the sort of foundational science aspects you know you could reduce the cost of energy essentially down to zero or you could make food more readily available across the world and so that would really help society progress in a number of ways it's a tantalizing prospect solving intelligence and creating a G I will take the full range of research explored in this podcast and more memory reasoning logic learning language embodied cognition and more so much more and we're going to explore some of those ideas in our next episode when I meet with deepmind co-founder demis hassabis he tells us how he created the world's leading AI research outfit reveals what keeps him up at night and opens up about his hopes for the future I'm just fascinated and also troubled by the things around us that we seemingly don't understand all the big questions you know the meaning of life had the universe start what is consciousness all these questions which I feel like a blaring sort of klaxon in my mind that I would like to understand and my attempt at doing that is to build AI first if you would like to find out more about artificial general intelligence or explore the world of AI research beyond deep mind you'll find plenty of useful links in the show notes for each episode and if there are stories or a sources that you think other listeners would find helpful then let us know you can message us on Twitter or email the team at pod cast that deep mind calm you can also use that address to send us your questions or feedback from the series you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: NX6eYMZhbZY (https://youtu.be/NX6eYMZhbZY) ===


[Music] this is deepmind the podcast and I'm Hannah fry over the last year I have been getting an inside look at current research into artificial intelligence or AI and we've been talking to scientists researchers and engineers about how things stand and where we headed tracing the fast-moving story of one of the biggest challenges in science today so if you want to be inspired on your own AI journey then you've come to the right place up until now in this series we have largely looked at what AI is capable of in the lab or in the world of games but the ambition of people working in AI is to help solve problems in the real world right now people are trying to use AI to help with everything from predicting traffic jams to monitoring endangered species and here at deepmind they've also been working on a few things now we could call them case studies but where would the fun be in that so I'll tell you what let's one of those big trailer things shall we in this episode we learn how a I might potentially help save the sight of thousands of eye disease sufferers we get the output from the first neural network and we can interrogate that as doctors and making decisions for our patients help break down the Enigma of protein folding we can learn what the processes or a description of the process so that we can take a sequence and then predict its structure an impact on our growing energy demands if that waste he isn't taken care of somehow it will literally melt your laptop first I want you to meet Sims with a spoon Sims is originally from South Carolina she's now the program manager at deepmind and she is a big believer in the potential benefits that AI can bring when people think about deep mine if they think about games they're largely thinking about the research side but trying to solve for intelligence is literally to use that intelligence to make the world a better place the world has no shortage of problems we need to solve we've got some really big ones some smaller ones but for the areas of immense complexity things where there's lots of data and lots of permutations or a huge combinatorial space of possibilities sometimes that's really daunting for human brains to try to figure out stuff in the real others just really complicated yeah it's really complicated and you know real-world data is really messy but if we can use AI to try to find a path through that complexity then we can solve our problems faster than we could if we were trying to do it on our own nowhere is that more true than in medicine in 2016 deepmind partnered up with Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation Trust in London to try and apply deep learning to AI scans with the number of people suffering from sight loss in the UK set to double by 2050 the trial had the potential to be hugely impactful peers keen is a consultant ophthalmologist at Moorfields Eye Hospital and National Institute for Health Research and knows firsthand about the demands placed on doctors one of the huge problems that we have in ophthalmology not just in the UK but all around the world is the huge number of patients that we have to deal with so in particular and the National Health Service we get nearly 10 million clinic appointments in the UK every year and that's actually 10% of all clinic appointments across the whole NHS and it's a number that's increased by more than 1/3 in the past 5 years why is it increase so I think it's increased because of the ageing population I think it's increased because certain diseases like diabetes are on the rise and so we just have to deal with a lot of eye problems related to that so for example I can tell you about just one condition which is age related macular degeneration or AMD and AMD is the commonest cause of blindness in the UK comas cause of blindness in Europe and and in North America as well and for just that one condition nearly 200 people developed the blinding forms of AMD every single day just in the UK and so the challenge that we have is that those people have to be seen and treated in an urgent fashion the problem then is that in for example in 2016 Moorfields Eye Hospital in London where I work received 7,000 urgent referrals from the community as possible wet AMD the blinding form of this condition but after 7,000 referrals only 800 patients actually had the severe form of the disease with so many people getting urgent referrals is inevitable that patients are gonna have to wait weeks to be seen by a specialist and during that time you have thousands of people who think they've got an eye disease that will threaten their sight who don't actually need to worry and hundreds of people with a curable condition whose sight could be saved but is slipping away while they wait peers told me about one of his patients Alain Mona Alain lost her sight from macular degeneration in her left eye completely more than 10 years ago before there was good treatment and in 2013 she started to develop blurring a vision in her good eye she went to her High Street optometrist who looked into her eye and said I think you're developing AMD in your good eye you need to be seen and treated urgently because now we have good treatments for this she got an appointment to another hospital in the NHS and it was six weeks later so can you imagine if you were at home and you're losing your sight and your good eye and you're told you have to wait six weeks when there is a treatment that's available and if that was my family member I'm treated in six days not in six weeks here is where the AI comes in and the idea is simple patients who are referred to more fields will already have had pictures taken of the back of their eye by their doctor or the optometrist in their high street opticians these are two and three-dimensional images known as Oct scans that can show up any one of 50 different diseases if you can use artificial intelligence to filter through those images first and triage the patients you can flag the people with a serious disease get them in front of a doctor sooner give them an earlier diagnosis earlier treatment and potentially save their site before artificial intelligence and before the sick sent recent successes of deep learning the traditional approach to programming an algorithm to recognize a photo of a cat for example would be you would write all that code to describe the features of a cat cat has whiskers cat as a tail then you'd say some cats don't have a tail some cats don't have fur etc etc and you try and write thousands or hundreds of thousands of lines of code to describe that with deep learning we don't do that with deep learning we show many examples often thousands or hundreds of thousands of pictures of cats - a neural network and it will extract the features of interest itself and learn how to recognize a cat well we simply do the same thing but with eye diseases the Machine doesn't care whether it's looking at cats or the backs of eyes yeah to a large extent yes and I think the reason why this collaboration has been successful so far is because Moorfields Eye Hospital is one of the oldest one of the largest AI hospitals in the world and we have huge numbers of O CT scans to train these neural networks does it work then I think the results are amazing I think they're they're jaw-dropping I think that the algorithm we've created is on a par with world-leading experts at Moorfields in triaging these are CT scans but there is quite a big difference between spotting cats in pictures and picking out eye disease for something so important how do you know the algorithm is getting it right how can a consultant be sure to see what the algorithm saw or feel confident to overrule it if they don't agree well the key has told me is about building an AI that doesn't just tell you what it's found but also shows you and to do that the AI needs not one neural network but two so the first neural network is trained to identify all the disease features on the scan and the second neural network is trained to take those disease features and to use them to make a diagnosis on the skin so it's first going through and kind of highlighting areas that don't look totally normal yeah anything that looks suspicious yeah the second ones coming in explaining what's going on and all of those and using that to come to a final decision exactly yeah and you can see all those areas that that first neural network has highlighted yes so that's one of the great advantages of this approach we get the output from the first neural network and we can interrogate that as doctors making decisions for our patients so if you've got bleeding in the retina or if you've got leakage of fluid and water logging of the retina it will highlight all of those features so if you see that a patient has diabetic eye disease then you can see the very typical features that have led it to make that decision which gives a lot of I think reassurance for healthcare professionals who would be using this there's a double whammy with this approach not only can it reassure the consultants helping them with the diagnosis they're already doing but there is hope that the AI might one day also be able to advance our understanding of the eye itself in 2018 another group of researchers decided to see if they could use deep learning on images of the retina to predict the sex of the patient now the best an eye doctor could manage would be a 50-50 guess but to their astonishment the algorithm got 97% right no ophthalmologist in the world has any idea what it is that this algorithm is picking up on in a photograph or any theory as to why the male and female I might be structurally different but the AI has found something that they're now trying to understand and in the more field study even when the algorithm gets the diagnosis wrong it might still be picking up on something that the professionals hadn't spotted what was interesting was that when we looked at the cases that the algorithm got wrong we actually had to take a step back because it seemed like some of those cases were very ambiguous challenging cases where maybe the algorithm had made the right answer and our gold standard was at least open to debate really so really kind of like jaw dropping there at the results that we were getting jaw dropping indeed so that's AI dipping its toe into the world of medicine but how about one of the most fundamental problems in science when I spoke to a very senior researcher about what he thought were the most significant problems in biology he his top problem was understanding the brain and how that works his second problem that he thought was the most important was understanding how proteins fold this is sandy Nelson a product manager for deep mind science program and as sandy told me it's hard to overstate the importance of proteins it is the most cited topic in 50 million scientific papers so many of the terms are used to query thinking about medical conditions are actually underlying proteins so we think about the immune system how that works of all that's proteins we think about hormones we know that regulates so many functions in our body so of course drugs are a lot to do about small molecules interacting with proteins but there's many other ways which proteins are important for thinking about say disease so we know for example Alzheimer's and some of those neurodegenerative diseases are to do proteins or proteins are implied proteins are the building blocks of all living systems stretched out straights they're just big long chains of amino acids a bit like a ribbon but they fold in on themselves and make these giant three-dimensional structures stuck together with peptide bonds now the number of different ways a protein could fold is vast think origami here except mind-bogglingly complicated human microbiological origami with 10 to the power of 300 possibilities and scientists care a great deal about exactly what shape those final folded proteins end up as part of the reason the proteins are so useful for taking part in so by cat many biochemical processes because they are specific they can target very very specific points in some process that specificity comes from the uniqueness of their shape so when we think about proteins are the the go-to molecule for anything you need to do in a living animal if you want to try and understand why some of the proteins have gone wrong or to create some kind of intervention understanding that process of creating structure from sequence is a first step and maybe designing proteins or understanding why it might go wrong the function of the protein whether it is to detect light in the eye or fight disease or speed up reaction rates is determined by its unique three-dimensional structure the question is how does the protein go from one state to the other from the ribbon to the final folded structure what is the objective heaven is it that in the end you want to create something where I tell you a sequence of amino acids and you tell me what the structure will look like so it is simplest level yes if you could do it as accurately as it can be done in a lab that says huge amount of effort in theory you can just observe the shape of the final folded structure the most common way of doing this is by bombarding crystals of the protein with x-rays inferring its shape from the way that these beams are scattered but that is hard to do it can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars for each protein structure and take months or even years of work it's so hard in fact that max Peretz won a Nobel Prize in 1962 just for figuring it out for one single protein hemoglobin there is an alternative though the final structure of the protein is actually determined by the chain of component parts the forces and charges that are acting on each of those individual amino acids so in theory you could use the physics to predict how the protein ribbon is going to fold but it's going to take a lot of number crunching so if you had a gigantic enough computers you know supercomputer level I could give you a string of amino acids and you could tell me what shape it would end up as but the problem is that we just don't have the computing power to crunch through it not at the level of modeling all the forces so we can explain why the protein folds the way it does using our understanding of chemistry and physics but because of the size and the complexity of the molecules there are so many forces we can't model everything and here's where AI comes into it we think that there's a another level of abstraction where we we think we can maybe find a summary description of all those forces and that's again too hard to come at through analysis but maybe we can learn that because we've got a huge data set which says well this sequence folds this way and we know that that's reliably the case so using machine learning maybe we can learn what the processes or a description of the process so that we can take a sequence and then predict its structure here is a problem with a very clear objective correctly predict how a chain of amino acids is going to fold and a vast vast number of possible ways to get there ai is perfectly placed to cut through that complexity the only problem is that even with AI on your side these things are so enormous ly complicated that you still can't cut a clear path to predicting how a protein might fold based only on the physics thankfully though there is a trick that you can use to simplify the problem and give your AI a head start the facts that proteins are so diverse can help you constrain the problem although I should warn you as a mathematician I found this stuff pretty hard to get my head around so I'm going to try and walk you through it nice and slowly proteins like organisms have a long evolutionary history they can sometimes be small random mutations in the string of amino acids every now and then a mutant protein will differ from its normal version on just one of its corners where if you unraveled it back into the ribbon of amino acids the markers of that mutation would show up in more than one spot you can imagine this as though you've got your folded ribbon scrunched up in some complicated shape in your hand and then you take a felt-tip pen to one corner of it now if you unfolded your ribbon and flattened it out you would see that the pen would have stained various spots along its length so working backwards then if you start with a flattened ribbon and notice something strange in a few different places marks that hint a consistent mutation you know that however the protein ends up being folded you found a big clue those stains must have to be next to each other in the final protein collect up all of those clues and you have greatly simplified your problem is it like you've got this this vow just sort of landscape of options and you're trying to build walls to pen yourself in yes that's exactly right because these proteins are so large they could fold in so many different shapes so we need to find clues that allow us to eliminate whole mass of shapes so we can concentrate just on a much smaller number you're making the problem smaller that's right you're listening to a podcast from the people at deep mind now every two years there is a big protein folding competition called CASP critical assessment of structure prediction competition over the course of three months academics from around the world compete to predict the structures of amino acids using algorithms the structures of these particular amino acids have already been confirmed through traditional observation so it's possible to judge who comes closest and in 2018 deepmind entered it's AI program alphago and we had to look at how other people did protein folding and we saw how they used evolutionary information and what other people had been doing was they'd been looking at a sort of binary constraint we said these two amino acids should be in contact shouldn't be in contact whereas what deepmind did is we looked at the probability of different distances between those amino acids so that's really like just saying well we tried to retain some more information or learn a better function for describing that relationship between proximity of amino acids so in terms of the fences that you're building on your landscape I'm not going quite far with this knowledge you were making sure that you weren't throwing away any information that's why our fences were more subtly defined or a bit more clearly delineated or they were less fence like and more like just a sort of that's right nice but that actually ended up making the prediction more accurate yes that's right so it's it's a very very complicated function but we were able to learn that and so once we were able to learn to kind of essentially retain that extra information that's one of the key things that made our system more successful [Music] with the problem reduced the a I could get to work doing what it does best for three nail-biting months the deep mind alpha fall team worked on the competition turning sequences of amino acids into predictions of three-dimensional folded shapes we didn't have any strong signal which told us how well we're performing we could see that we were not perfect in many cases so it is very hard to find out how well we were doing compared to other people there are so many fantastic researchers that were publishing great results until we actually went through that sort of organized assessment very very hard to really figure out how well we were doing and then finally it was the moment of truth of the 43 strings of amino acids they were given the team came closest to correctly predicting the structure for 25 of them the team that came in second only managed three a staggering result by anyone's standards you're kind of downplaying this because I was talking to a few academics when this this result came out and of all of the results that have come out of deepmind this is the one that's got the scientific community most excited yes and and that's because this is a classical scientific domain it's a grand challenge in science that many people have worked on so it's something that many many scientists care about deeply they can see what the potential impact is and it's been known to be a very hard problem so we've been able to make a step change on a hard problem that's been worked on for over 50 years in terms of interventions then is this just something that biologists and scientists will get very excited about in terms of kind of blue sky research understanding protein or is it something that could end up having an impact in real people's lives so I guess it's similar to all sort of biomedical research it's fundamental so it has huge leverage of essentially will affect many many things but it needs to be translated into something specific for it to have immediate impact and on people's lives so for example if we think about the drug discovery process part of that process goes on in labs and it's very abstract and all to do with chemistry but ultimately that process does produce medicines that we can buy or prescribe which ultimately will affect our lives so this is at the start early part of that process for example although the long-term implications of protein folding have the potential to impact all of us it's not exactly a topic that most of us are coming face-to-face with on a daily basis but one issue that we are all facing is that of climate change you remember Simms who met earlier while her team decided to focus their efforts on one specific climate challenge energy consumption in data storage and they started its by looking for a place where burning far more energy than we need to because it turns out your emails are one of the things that are warming the planet if you think about the things that we all do online every day whether that's sending an email doing a Google search looking at dog videos on YouTube you know the number one videos cat videos for me it's dog videos I make I make nice-nice all of that requires compute power and you know the information that we you know data we send data that we store when information is disseminated all of that runs through a physical space ie the data center it and it takes a lot of energy to do all of those actions that we rely on on the internet because there I mean there are actual sort of physical warehouses that are holding all of those cat videos o as there yes they are physical spaces and if you think about the amount of energy they consume a data center you know in a large industrial kind of setting can consume the same amount of energy as a small town I mean these things are massive and they require a lot of energy to run they also require a lot of energy to cool all those emails sitting in your Inbox the four dog videos you're streaming simultaneously the request you sent to the server to download this very podcast every one of those things requires computing power in a data center somewhere collectively data centers now use 3% of the world's energy the equivalent of a whole new country that just popped up on the map a few years ago and all that computing generates heat lots and lots of heat if you imagine how hot your laptop gets when you're streaming Netflix or you know the for video is online imagine that but multiply it times a million what if that waste heat isn't taken care of somehow it will literally melt your laptop or in the case of the data center it will melt your server that's why your laptop has a fan that's why data centers have cooling that needs to happen there we have to keep them at a temperature so they don't melt and you and I can get our dog videos off YouTube and I guess just cooling down those data centers takes up at a vast amount of energy yes it does we are you know we're talking about chillers required that are the size of buses in order to to keep them cool and this is where a eye comes in so imagine you were trying to control the cooling of a data center and a human being who you know it's usually a facility manager data center operator just has to kind of dials to control and that was all you had to do to control the entire Center now that is a vast oversimplification like a fine and a key yeah exactly just those tips you could figure out the the best you know is it just aircon is it just fan is it both is it neither like that's not that many options right you could figure that out but when it turns into a huge number of pieces of equipment with set points on every single one which are all things you can change by some degree that then interact all the sudden you've got a vast number literally a number of options that is in the billions and that's just too much for a facility manager a data set operator a human being to try to control so this is where we think AI is it's the perfect space for AI because AI can adjust a vast amount of information more than the human brain can and can help us figure out which of those permutations which of those combinations actually is the optimal path forward how does AI cut through one of this this complexity we can ask a model to figure out okay we want to keep the data center at a certain temperature but we want to use less energy to do that here all of the ways that you can manipulate the system please figure it out the setting might look quite different to a game of chess or go but the principle ideas here are exactly the same again you have a very clear objective namely keep the center cool while using as little energy as possible and a vast vast number of possibilities of how to get there that the AI has to find a path through and once it does the AI tells you how all of the dials should be set across the across the center exactly what's that points to change and by how much to change them and does it work it does work that's the best part about it we saw that with direct AI control ie you know getting those recommendations and having a I feed them directly back into the physical infrastructure of the data center going through lots of safety constraints we saw a 30% reduction in the amount of energy required to cool Google data centers which is math which is massive and a really exciting number I don't have to confess I've seen the graph yeah of what happened when you put the AI in indirect control of all of the dolls and it is staggering I mean you've got this it's sort of bumpy line that goes along about how much energy is being used and then it's all it looks like those graphs were the pound crashes yeah she's in terrible news it drops off a cliff and then you kind of have it bumping along the bottom of the graph at which point you take the AI away from being in control and it says switch back over to human control and just jump straight back up to where it was before it's amazing is the AI running the cooling system in the day centers right now yes it is which is fantastic and hoping to roll them out to even more in the future now that we've proved that this works and works well with more data with more practice in other words the AI gets better over time so 30% is a fantastic number but it's increasing you know a rules and heuristics don't get better over time but AI does that's the best part about these systems and that is why there is so much excitement about a eyes potential here at deep mind and AI labs around the world if you would like to find out more about applying AI to energy healthcare and scientific problems or explore the world of AI research beyond deep mind you'll find plenty of useful links in the show notes for each episode and if there are stories or sources that you think other listeners would find helpful then let us know you can message us on Twitter or email the team at podcast at deep mind calm you can also use that address to send us your questions or feedback on the series now so we have another break

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: 3N9phq_yZP0 (https://youtu.be/3N9phq_yZP0) ===


I'm tomato pooja and the director of CBMM which is hosting this talk back in 2011 Josh and I organized Josh is there one of the symposia for the MIT hundred 50 anniversary and the simple teemo's brains minds and machines and the last day was the most exciting day of the symposium was that about the marketplace for intelligence who invited some of the big companies like IBM Microsoft Google and so on and a couple of startups one was mobile I and you have heard from unknown yesterday about the state of autonomous driving the other one was deep mind and and Demi's spoke then he had been a postdoc for a short period of time with me and at Harvard and he was at CBMM in what was already done at the heart of machine learning at MIT deme spoke then about the unofficial business plan of deepmind which was to create the first day I in the virtual world of games since then you have come back a few times to keep up updated about the progress of deepmind and last time I think was three years ago and this was shortly after alphago won the competition in South Korea in Seoul against Lee SEDOL and so this time they missed made just very well declare victory and in the virtual world of games because they've done everything you know beyond all hopes maybe will issue a new business plan and you challenge for the real world we see I have often said that intelligence the problem of intelligence is the greatest problem in science today and tomorrow and this also means is not going to be particularly easy to solve it I think it's not only one problem but like like biology the science of life in the same way the science of intelligence is a lot of problems we will need a lot of break rules not one but many Nobel Prizes so both damage and CBMM share the view that neuroscience and cognitive science would be at the core of progress that ultimately lead to developed understanding better human intelligence and developing intelligent machines the journey may be longer than many people think but it will be very rewarding in many different ways intellectually and otherwise and we should enjoy this journey and enjoy making history so please welcome Demi's thanks Tommy hope you can all hear me okay thanks all of you for for coming it's amazing to see see you all here and it's always really fun for me to come back to MIT and catch up with old friends and also see how much amazing work CBMM and all of you are doing both in neuroscience as well as machine learning and and in the crossover which is very close to my heart so today what I thought I'd talk about I mean there's lots of things I could discuss that we've done since I was last here three years ago but I entitled the talk the power of self learning systems because I think what we've and others have shown over the last years is how surprisingly useful they can be and how powerful quite a simple idea can end up being so I'm just going to talk about the beginning with framing you know I've always thought about AI as if effectively bifurcating into two different types of approaches and this is when we think about AI in the history of AI and on the one hand you know we can try to build expert systems that rely on hard-coded knowledge that basically are hand crafted with the solution to a problem but and they're usually inspired by logic systems and mathematics and that for a long time was the way that most people attempted to build AI and the problem with that is that those kinds of systems can't deal with the unexpected they basically usually fail catastrophically if something hasn't already been programmed into them if they encounter something unusual or that the programmer had not foreseen and the other nation interesting issue is that of course they're limited in scope to the sorts of solutions that we are able to articulate we as the human programmers so of course by definition they're limited to these pre-programmed solutions on the other hand and I think why this is such an exciting moment in scientific history and while you're here is that there's been this sort of big Renaissance if you like or of the learning system approach where instead of programming solutions we and we build systems that are able to learn for themselves from first principles learn their own solutions to problems and what we hope is that these systems will be sufficiently general they can generalize to all sorts of new tasks perhaps tasks they've never seen before and actually indeed even solve things that we as human scientists are not able to do right so maybe the promise of these systems is that they could go beyond what we able to solve on our own and I'm going to talk about that in the in the latter part of this talk now officially in learning systems and why I think what CBMM is is doing is so great and also what we do at deep mind is that we can look to the best learning system we have the brain human brain and see if we can be inspired by understanding that better inspired about new algorithms that we could use new representations new architectures they're inspired by neuroscience and our understanding of the brain in complete though that is and I would say not only can we be inspired but we can also validate algorithms that we've come up with ourselves from perhaps from mathematical approaches or physics approaches in orthogonal approaches from neuroscience if we get build a system like that reinforcement learning I think is a good example of that which was pushed forward in engineering quite a lot in the in the 80s and 90s we can then see you know when we find that the brain implements a form of DTB learning in some famous results in the 90s you know we could be confident then that reinforcement learning and is plausibly part of a kind of overall AI solution and so we can push harder on those techniques if we know that the brain also uses those techniques and that point of validation is often overlooked but it's very important when you are running or in charge of a big engineering program you know where do you decide to put more effort in if something doesn't work which you know things often don't work first time or even many times in research and engineering how much more should you push that approach and if you can take some guidance from from the brain and some comfort that these systems are the brain does implement them then that can be very important source of information so as Tommy mentioned last time I was here and maybe some of you were in the audience three years ago now we just come off fresh off the back of our big alphago match and that we played in seoul and really overturned a lot of the traditional thinking in the game of go but also was very surprising to many people in AI and many of the experts sort of proclaim that this was a decade before they expected it to happen so I'm not going to talk about alphago today but if you're interested in a sort of behind-the-scenes look at what happened with alphago in the whole project I'd recommend this documentary that was done by his award-winning documentary was done by a great filmmaker who followed us behind the scenes and had access behind the scenes at all during this journey and it's on Netflix and Amazon now in other places and I'd recommend you take a look at that if you're interested in that story so today I'm going to focus on what we've been doing in the last 12 months and it's been quite a watershed year for us at deep mind and we've had quite a few interesting breakthroughs then I'm going to cover today so the first thing I talk about is alpha 0 and alpha zero is our latest incarnation of the alphago program as well a series of programs so I'm just going to show you for those of you don't know the lineage of alpha zero and how we came about working on this project so first of all there was the original alphago so this is three three plus years ago now and alphago was amazingly strong but we had to do a bootstrapping step which was to learn from human games first by predicting what human players not experts but strong amateurs that we downloaded some games of from online databases and we tried to initially train on your network systems to predict what the human player would do sort of by mimicking these human players and then once it got sort of reasonably strong like weak amateur level then we started this process of self play and self learning by playing against itself to improve but what we wanted to do is and the way we work at deep mind is we try to we always got generality in mind that's the final goal like the kind of purist system you can build with the least amount of assumptions in it about and and a maximally general that works across as many possible domains as possible without any adjustment so we start off you know can go be cracked at all that was obviously the original question then once we did alphago then we looked at all the components of the system when we saw we sort of try some systematic work then to remove all the things that were specific to go right there were still left remaining specific to go so the next step was what we called alphago zero and and what we did here is remove this initial step of needing some human games to bootstrap form from the beginning so alphago zero started from totally random play and improved all the way to become stronger than the original alphago just through self play just from playing millions of games against itself and modifying its new or network based on whether it won or lost so and so zero here refers to the use of zero human knowledge domain-specific knowledge obviously we need a human knowledge to make the system but we didn't use any go specific knowledge was required and that's important because eventually if we want to use these systems for real-world problems you know you may not have a treasure trove of data like millions of human amateur games that are freely downloadable on the internet you may not have access or you may not there may not be that kind of data so you might have to generate it itself and then the final step which were going to talk a little bit about in this section was our four zero so now we drop the word go because alpha zero is able to play any two-player perfect information game to world champion or a higher standard and I put the asterisks on any because we only tried it with three the three the three biggest games that are played professionally so chess which I'm going to talk about a lot and uses the canonical example go so alpha zero can be alphago zero and shogi Japanese chess which is really amazing of version of chess that's very different from western chess but extremely complex as well and played professionally in Japan so I'm going to talk about alpha zero and you can see so this there's this sort of framing of increasing generality alphago first remove all the ghosts Pacific and human data components of that and then finally generalized to any two-player game now as you all know chess nai has had a long and storied history starting from the very the dawn of modern computing von Neumann Turing Shan and all of many of my scientific heroes even including Babbage actually going all the way back all tried their hand at chess programs many in Turing's case he wrote it out on piece of paper and executed it himself but but but he say wasn't you know a computer program as such but but he you know he he tried his hand at that and they all imagined what you know a strong chess program might be like and in fact guest Gary Kasparov recently wrote in his editorial for our science paper that chess is has always been or isn't can be thought of as like a Drosophila of reasoning and I I sort of agree with him on that actually that's definitely the kind of places occupied for many years in AI research now what you can argue of course chess has been done right I mean it was done in the late 90s when famously IBM deep blue beat Garry Kasparov in in a six-game match so at that point and since that point chess programs have been stronger than then he the best human players and indeed as has changed the way that we play chess but so you could argue well why did we bother trying to to apply alpha zero to chess when we already know machines can beat the world champion in chess so this is unlike go where obviously there was no program that could be the the go world champion now the reason is and this was a debate I had actually with one of the project leaders on deep blue when back in 2016 when we just done alphago I think we haven't actually yet done the Lisa doll match but we've done the fan play match and I gave a talk at triple AI and at the end Marie Campbell was one of the project leads on IBM deep blue came up to me afterwards and congratulated us on on alphago but asked me the question of like what do you think will happen if we apply this to chess would you know is it possible for these learnt systems to be stronger than the handcrafted systems that have had thirty years of incredible engineering being done on them plus the distillation of many hundreds of grandmasters right so this is one of the most I'd argue chess computers is one of the most heavily engineered areas in all of AI right I think it's been probably the longest standing continuous domain that's been worked on and they're obviously incredibly strong and even as a chess player myself a next chess player myself I was wondering was chess rich enough as a game to have enough exploration left for for a learned system to learn some new ideas and perhaps some new theories or themes about the game that would allow it to compete with these really big brutes of a machines now that we have that incredibly optimized to brute-force search through through chess moves so you know actually we both concluded in a discussion that we didn't know the answer to this you know would it be able to be competitive is there enough room in chess for this kind of stuff when I asked my strong chess player friends they didn't know either so to me that's always a good sign of a great scientific question we're basically either answer is very illuminating a very interesting so we decided to to try and do that now just to give you an example of how amazing and kind of carefully these current chess engines are written the current world champion or at least when we were doing these tests the 2016 world champion is a program called stop fish and it's in the lineage it's an open-source programmers in the lineage of deep blue these kinds of systems and they have hundreds of rules and even thousands of handcrafted rules about chess porn structures and King safety all different things evaluation the teams of programmers over many years have tried to distill from human grandmasters and and encapsulate in these complex database of rules and then of course they have to balance those rules against each other so there's a phenomenal amount of engineering has gone into this and then obviously of optimization to make these systems as fast as possible so they can actually look at tens of millions of moves per decision they have to make and then they have opening databases and endgame databases that tell you that exactly solve both the opening and the end and especially the endgame seven pieces or less has been solved so you just have a lookup table now that's what a chess engine looks like today that's what we're confronting when we try and build a learning system that could compete against that what we do is we throw a all those thousands of handcrafted rules and and that handcrafted knowledge and all that chest knowledge and we replace it with two things self play we enforce at learning and Monte Carlo tree search that's it so such a very simple program once you've once you've built it and and and optimized it so I'm just quickly going to go through how alpha zero works for those who don't you know I'm actually going to compound together alpha zero and alphago zero because they're slightly different systems but they're pretty much trained in the same way so I don't want to go through this twice but you can kind of imagine it's a bit of a hybrid what I'm going to describe between alphago 0 and alpha zero so what you do is first of all you create your your-your-your neural network architecture and in alphago we used to have two neural networks one that chose narrowed down the likely moves that will be played in a certain position we call that the policy network and then another neural network that learned to evaluate the current position and who was winning and the probability chance of which side was going to win by alphago 0 and alpha 0 we managed to merge these two neural networks into one your network that output two values sort of had two outputs the the the most likely moves to search and and this and this evaluation and that allows the tree search to be very efficient which I'll come back to the end much more efficient than we have to do with traditional chess engines because we can both reduce the the width of the search by using the policy network to narrow down to the most likely moves and we can reduce the depth of the search by truncating the search at any point and of using the value calling the value Network and evaluating the position at that point so we start with that has no knowledge about anything we do hundred thousand gate games sort of in batches of self play of the current best version of our neural network against itself hundred thousand times roughly that creates a big training corpus of data synthetic training data obviously in this case every hundred thousand or so batches we then try to train a new neural network based off of the old training data and the new training data and then we create this new neural network and then this new neural network we play it roughly a hundred times against or maybe a thousand times against the old neural network and at the point when it wins 55% of the time then we replace the old neural network with the new one so if it doesn't beat the old neural network more than fifty five percent of the time we do the next hundred thousand games with the old network so now we have two hundred thousand to train the new neural network and so on until eventually the neural network the new neural network is better if it is better than he gets ripley replaces the old one and now the new network is what we use to generate the next batch of self play data and so on and this this pretty simple regime is incredibly powerful and you can bootstrap from random to world champion level and above in a matter of hours with this system from literally starting from random play so in chess this requires about forty million games we play a game in about three seconds that's a that's that's an interesting tuning sort of parameter because what you could do is you could allow the neural network in these training games a longer amount of time to think then obviously the games would be higher quality but you would have let but it would take you longer to generate the games so you'd have less games in a certain amount of time so that's an interesting trade-off that is still not clear what the right trade-off is there we're still doing some experiments on that and then we play 5000 games at a time on 5,000 TP use which we have access to but obviously if you had less computers you would have less games at a time and it would just take longer so with this amount of compute it only takes a few hours so that's alpha 0 that's the bay SiC training and then we tend tested it under match conditions which is in our size paper we talk to stop fish creators and we got the exact conditions they use for their World Championship matches this is stock fish ate I should say so there's now stock fish ten but two years ago stock fish eight was the world champion and we won the thousand game match one hundred fifty five wins two six losses so and the rest draws but you know chess is a very Jewish game but but but that's a big margin one hundred fifty five to six and actually when you look at the six games what you find out in those is it's generally drawn positions where alpha zero has pressed too hard for win so so that's another interesting thing about how much should we reward a win to a draw and that that's another interesting thing that we could discuss in the Q&A that we've we played around with so so it's convincingly stronger and by the way it surpasses stock fish in four hours from starting from random so this is the graph of improvement there that you can see so all this decades of you know human handcrafted programming can be learned well a different knowledge can be learnt in a matter of hours and then we tried it on shogi and we beat the the world's best shogi program which is roughly human world champion level in a couple of hours and in go we were able to be alphago for go zero in eight hours of training with this new more efficient architecture so so we believe this would work on any two-player perfect information game which I have to say was one of my always one of my childhood dreams because I used to play lots of different games as well as chess and we always just talked about what would the kind of master games player be and and those of you read any hermann hesse the gillaspie game is one of my favorite books I recommend that to all of you and that in there is about a you know the beauty of games and and in this case a an intellectual getting incredible at a game and then using that to solve many other domains so so for me this was always a waypoint that I've been dreaming about for a long time and and I think we've got there now now the the interesting thing is that well there's many interesting things to say actually and I only only cover a few the interesting things now maybe we can go more into this in the Q&A but one thing to look at is the amount of search the efficiency of these systems and the amount of search per decision now there's lots of ways of measuring efficiency and obviously the human brain is incredibly energy efficient and these systems are not both the chair normal chess engines and things like alpha zero certainly not compared to human Grandmaster but what I'm more interested in actually is the compute efficiency or the sample efficiency and traditional chess engines like it the ones that you can run on your PC at home now are so optimized they can look at 10 million moves order of tens of millions of moves per decision they have to make now if we compare that to a human Grandmaster on the left there you know the top grandmasters look at maybe maybe the order of a couple of hundred moves with each decision they have to make so many orders of magnitude less than the computer engines do and what's interesting is alpha 0 is sort of it's not as efficient as a human Grandmaster not by a long shore hundred Exmoor but it's it's in the middle alpha zero looks at the order of tens of thousands of moves before making a decision not tens of millions so so I think that's interesting directionally too to think about there so you know another interesting test that you can do is if you turn off all the search completely right you can kind of measure how strong these engines are and with the chess engines if you turn off if you get rid of their search so just just immediate just just using their evaluation function they're terrible they're they're like weaker than a weak club player so you know just just about know how to play chess and but alpha zero if you turn a halt it's search it's roughly International Master standard so it's pretty good even though it's not even without any search whatsoever and we think we can make that stronger - but what's also cool for those of you play chess is the way alpha0 place so we saw this in alphago alphago came up with these amazing new themes and motifs that the human go players had never seen and are now using by all accounts but this was the answering so the first part of the question was answered can we that Marie asked me you know can we build a learning system that can compete with these brute-force search engine type systems and the answer is yes handcrafted systems and the second question is you know what's the richness of chess itself as a domain and what was amazing and really pleasing to see is that alpha zero played in this very unique style and there's actually many unique things about it but the main key difference between alpha zero and the way that chess engines play is the alpha zero really favors mobility of its pieces versus materiality so the chess engines really like material and they're known to be you know mid grabbing materials if you give it a pawn it will always take the pawn and then the thing about those systems was they were quite ugly to the human eye to the human expert aesthetically because what these engines would do is they would grab material greedily grab material get into a kind of bad looking positional position but have more material and because they were so good tactically they couldn't be beaten even though the moves they were making looked a bit ugly to a human expert of course in the end the chess players concluded maybe they just the computer just knew better because ultimately was stronger and perhaps our intuition of beauty just doesn't map to functionality but what alpha0 did was it plays in this very dynamic and to human Grandmaster aesthetically beautiful style and it's able to beat this sort of kind of calculation style that the engines have and and that really excited the chess world and in fact is rekindled my passion for chess and I've been playing a lot more recently and got the the chess players really excited and for those of you play chess this is my favorite position from the alpha zero stop fish games alpha zero is white stop fish is black and alpha zero loves sacrificing pieces and we can maybe talk a little bit about why that is in a second but it loves sacrificing pieces to get more mobility for its remaining pieces and this is the perfect example of that in in in chess there's this term german term called zugzwang which means that you've got your opponent into a position where any move they make will make their position worse right that's what a zoogs Whang means and what alpha0 has done here for those you know chess is it swapped its rook for a bishop rooks are worth five points bishop sir were only worth three points and it's done that so it can see loft black's queen in the corner you can see the queen hopefully this pointer right in the corner can't move and these two rooks are stuck because they have to defend this pawn next to the King because all of white's pieces are gang up against it none of its pawns can move without being taken so basically in the King Kong move so nothing can move in this position so somehow it's like alpha zero is hermetically sealed stop fishing and literally it can't move so so it just has to give up its pieces so this is kind of incredible like and obviously alpha zero has foreseen this you know 10 20 moves beforehand that it was going to get into this situation and we're literally stopped fish cannot do anything now one reason you might might think you know what we can debate how come alpha zero can do this more freely and some by the way in human history some amazing chess players some world champions were famous for doing this this guy called mikhail tal were in the 60s was world champion and he was famous for making extraordinary sacrifices and winning these very beautiful games and alpha zero is sort of in that style and and if you think about it in a normal chess engine one of the first rules you would build into a chess engine if you're writing them and i used to write these in when i was a kid like different different types of engines you'd write the piece values in right so you'd say rook is five points knight is three points and you would total up one of the first things you would do for your search engine is to basically total up what each side has got and it's better to have more points right so if you think about it if a chess engine normal chess engine wants to sacrifice a rook for a knight yeah it's - it's it's hard code of rule is telling it that's - two points so somewhere down the line through its tens of millions of calculations it's got to figure out that it's going to get two points of value back like like objectively figure that out by some other rule right or or capture that that that material back or more and so that's very constraining if you think about it right where's our four zero doesn't have that in book rule so it doesn't have to overcome this inbuilt bias that this that is about to make this sacrifice in it's worth - its - two points as far as its concerned rooks are just assets nights are just assets they move in different ways right now your opponent's Knight is in an outpost and really powerful my rooks passive and not doing much so I'm going to swap it right it can take into account context which the handcrafted rules obviously can't doesn't matter how many rules you would program in you can't go in this position in this specific case with the Queen in the corner then then you know it's okay to sacrifice right I mean you could try and people have tried but it wouldn't be ready general that rule you probably need millions and millions and millions of rules to encapsulate that and then on top of that think about something else how are you going to balance all those rules against each other right how are you going to balance material versus pawn structure versus Kings safety all of these kind of fairly esoteric concepts and obviously can have a go at doing that with grandmasters telling you what they think but it's very difficult even human grandmasters don't think in that way right they can't perfectly balance these things together within a few decimal points so so I think there's many reasons why alpha 0 is and this style of program is stronger then we showed it to the kind of code at all of this is we showed it to one of my old chess friends Matthew Sadler and Natasha Regan - my chess friends from Cambridge and Matthew saddle owes two times British champion and we laid that we let them in before we published the paper to look at all the self play games and they found that there were so many interesting new motifs that alpha zero had found there were seven new themes that they hadn't really seen before in professional chess and they were they really asked have petitioned us to kind of write a chess book about these new ideas and that's just come out in January so if you any of your chess players I'd recommend this book game-changer which talks about how these new ideas and why they're so exciting and and Garry Kasparov also wrote some very nice things about this and and and very interested in AI and one thing he wrote was about alpha zero as programs usually reflect priorities and prejudices of programmers but because alpha zero learns for itself I would say its style reflects the truth which is quite an amazing statement really of course he went on to say that it plays like him which he was very perhaps he's a bit bias and I think it does a little bit but he was very pleased to say that as well later on in the article so that's alpha zero so I want to move on now to alpha star which is our newest program so you can think well ok you know we've done board games Perl and I was very clear to caveat with perfect information two-player games right so that's quite a big you know why branch of things encompasses a lot of human activity in the games domain but you know it's still there still easy in some sense right and in two ways that they're easy to important ways that they're easy is that the state transitions are very simple right you make a move it's pretty clear what the next state is going to look at and they're perfect information so there's no hidden information and partial observe observe ability so we wanted to tackle these two challenges that we feel are beyond what we did with alphago in the Alpha zero series of programs and so we wanted to pick in a domain that was sort of more complex and a dynamic real-time environment that also had hidden information and to do that we chose the game of Starcraft 2 which you know many of you will be fans of and you know you can ask why did we choose Starcraft 2 well for several reasons in my opinion in widely-held sort of acknowledged it's the most complex and most exquisitely balanced realtime strategy game I think ever made and realtime strategy games are kind of the hardest of the strategy games in in the computer games world it was also the first eSport so it's been professionally over a decade so there are many hundreds of professionals a lot of them in Korea again like with the go programs a go player sorry and and there's been played very very high-level it's also been quite a classic challenge for AI for about a decade as well so people have been researching Starcraft AI and having organizing global competitions from about 2010 a lot of the first work came out of Berkley and also we had good relationship with Blizzard who make this fantastic game and they were able to supply us with things like anonymize replays of human games and they were very excited about exploring this for their own for their own games development if they can build AI in this way for games that would save them a huge amount of time and effort and so the new challenges are partially observable as I mentioned massive action space so this is another new challenge compared to ball games it's you know it's not a good way of estimating this but we estimated there's roughly 10 to the power 8 possible actions per per move if you like although it's real-time and then there's very long-term dependency so games can last like half an hour and they can involve more than 5,000 steps 10,000 steps this kind of range which obviously a lot more than a board game which is in the order of 100 to 200 moves and it's real-time and multiplayer the other thing about this game is that the way you play it it's a very dynamic game so unlike a board game where this the set of pieces is fixed at the start like in chess here in in Starcraft and these kinds of realtime strategy games you build up your army and your your-your-your units so every game is different so there's basically four steps in in in Starcraft step one is you collect your resources you build a base you build your units and then you you battle with your opponent and so there's a very complex game with many many rich strategies and there are three different alien races you can play which is so that there's a kind of Paper Scissors stone element so it's very complicated game to play and in terms of our architecture I haven't got time to go into this in detail but we'll be publishing a paper on this soon and which will have all that all the details but basically there are three feed-forward networks that take in the various observations so their spatial observations about the map there's there's various numbers that keep track of your economy how many resources you've collected and and so on and then there's information about your units how many are there's like 50 different types of units you can build how many have you got of each type and how many are you producing and so those 3 feed-forward networks you can see here I'll piped into a deep LS TM which is really the core of the system and it has three layers of s 2 LS TMS and and a bunch of other stuff and then the output is a function head which is you know what action to take and then that parameterised across the units using the attention mechanism so you can think of this as a parameterised function that's output you know move these 5 units to this position and that's what what is output and then and then you see that being executed now in terms of the training we created this thing called alpha starleague which is we call this population based training and really this is kind of like self play on steroids because instead of now just playing against yourself one opponent we have an entire league of diverse competitors that you are competing against so so at the beginning we start with the first agent that we build and that started by imitation learning so in supervised learning by looking at the replay games that we got from Blizzard so this is human data actually not not that strong those players so they were like median level human players and then we create our first agent here 0 0 1 which is which is created by imitation but then we fought this agent and we start using our self play and reinforcement learning to to improve the level of this agent so this is very much how we started like with alphago except in this case we also keep around older agents the ones in blue to make sure that we as we improve our to new strategies we don't forget to be our old strategies and and then this this level improvement carries on for you know about thousand or more different epochs as we keep increasing the strength of these systems and then at the end before we challenge the top human players what we do is we we take what we call the nash of the league so we look at if we have five matches we take the best five strategies and the ones that basically together dominate the rest of the league but are not dominated by any other individual agent in that still that's outside of that nash those five so and then those are the ones we take into the competition now one one way we kind of increase the amount of diversity in our systems is by introducing intrinsic motivation so obviously the a the AI systems get rewarded but for winning again but we also to increase diversity we also give them some pseudo rewards or intrinsic motivations and these can be make sure you build X number of units and then win right so there's like fifty different units as I'll saying so we can we can kind of make AI system make some of the agents specialize in certain types of units we can also say you know only focus on beating this one other agent in the league so it can kind of pick on one agent and and we can sort of randomize that a bit as well so we can kind of introduce asymmetries in all sorts of ways and we're still experimenting with different ways a very rich area to look at designing pseudo rewards and evolving them potentially and what you get is if you see this graph is this is the nut this is the different units you can build or a selection of them it's like 25 things here and this is the number of days of training the league and this is how many the sort of height of this graph is how many of those units were built at different stages of the league training by all of the different agents that were active at that moment in time and you can see that the different strategies urban flow depending on which one is dominant at the time so once we did that just before Christmas last year we decided we were ready to take on some of the top professionals in the world so we invited in two of the top professionals TLO and manna from from a German team and and they came in and tested our our system behind closed doors in some in two official five-game matches and here is you can see the progress of of alpha star each of these dots is one of the agents in the Alpha Star League and you can see how they're improving these are all the rankings human rankings after from bronze to Grandmaster and obviously TLO and mana are above Grandmaster level and and we played them just before Christmas and we won those two matches ten nil so we play four to five game matches which we won five nil and five nil we then showed the replays of that I was commentated on online some of you may have seen it in January we were tried one exhibition match which we actually lost which we tried to a new interface different way of processing the screen and we're still working on that now but overall our system is extremely strong so that's alpha star now if we now take a look at all of our work together we've you know we've talked we've we talked about in the past that we started off with atari games so we sort of crack that in 2014 with dqn then there's alphago alpha 0 and now alpha star and I think in terms of Grand Challenges for games I feel like we sort of done it now that that's that's the I'm not going to clear victory lie Tommy was saying but I feel like I feel like that we've done most of the interesting problems that were inheriting games of course there's still other things other kinds of games games like diplomacy that need lots of language understanding there's some other interesting things to explore but we feel like we've we've we've done a lot of the core work that was needed now there are many interesting issues with these systems I haven't got time to talk about all of these right now so I think we started a bit late but so we may have to overrun a bit but this there's you know one of the things that that was interesting about these systems and we learn about these systems is with alpha go especially the first version of alphago it lost game four in this famous match we played against Lisa thought we won 4-1 and the one it lost it basically got very confused and Lisa thought that this amazing move on mu 79 that confused our evaluation system so when we went back and analyzed afterwards you know we were trying to figure out why what was it about that position that had confused alpha go and it wasn't so clear what we could we could sort of tell though some motifs about the position but it wasn't we wasn't clear exactly what the problem was and we had another match against the Chinese number one that we that we won in 2017 that we had to prepare for and obviously he had seen kou Jay had seen what happened and Lisa door match so we had to fix this weakness so you can think of it as a little bit like a bug if it was a traditional program and on to this additional program you would just write a new rule or something to fix that that that hole in the knowledge database if you like but the problem is is this is a self learning system so we we can't really just fix it with some you know some patch we have to kind of encourage it somehow to explore this area of the search space explore this sort of area of the regime and that's that's a pretty tricky thing to coax a system to do and actually you know people interested we could talk about this in the Q&A there are lots of interesting ideas we had there of how to do that and I think there's going to be an interesting notion of what debugging is when it comes to these new kinds of systems right what is the bugging mean when you have a problem with one of your self learning systems I think this is really interesting I think it's a whole kind of new paradigm there to look at in computer science I've talked a little bit about covering the knowledge search space is sort of related to this first point how do you know you've covered you know the whole surface area of what you thought you were doing you know is there a good mathematical way of describing that this also goes links in with understanding the system so these systems are incredible incredibly good at what they do they have all this amazing implicit knowledge that they built up for themselves but how do we understand how it's making those decisions and then there's you know maybe philosophical questions about the nature of creativity and what that means you know I've started thinking about three levels of creativity now and maybe you know there's probably others but I thinking about interpolation extrapolation and then kinda like out-of-the-box creativity or innovation and there's three types of things you can do there and and I would claim that alphago exhibited some aspects of creativity so you know was able to come up with new moves that even human players had never thought of or seen before so I would say that's extrapolation not just interpolation but you know it can't do full out-of-the-box innovation thinking like it you know alphago cannot invent go right that's what I think we're eventually after can't invent chess alpha zero right we can just play some it can create creative moos new moves novel moves and novel ideas in chess but it can't invent chess yet so um and of course i want to say despite all these successes many of the most interesting challenges are left right and i won't go through each of these but these are just some of the ones that i think all of you should be working on and we're working on and i'm sure many of you are unsupervised learning memory one-shot learning imagination based planning with generative models learning abstractions and abstract concepts transfer learning language understanding all unsolved and and we need to crack these problems if we want to get to full AGI and so i think actually in some ways is the most exciting time to be in the field right now because i feel like we've just done the preliminaries we've got the you know we got we've got onto the first step and we've done some interesting things it looks promising but now i feel like the next decade or so it's gonna be about tackling really the crux of intelligence which i think as many of these things and things even beyond this list which i feel like really the the heart of the intelligence question so i'm just going to try and speed up a little bit here but the the so that's games and that's for us you know kind of a it's not the closing of a chapter we're always going to be using games and simulations forever at deep mind but it's a big sort of watershed moment i would say for us in this last year and and the idea is you know for us has always been and if you go back to the 2011 talking that's on the internet somewhere that that tommy was mentioning i do talk about games and effects with our business plan and 2011 and and i feel we've done a lot of the things i talked about in that in that and that's in that lecture and but it's always been that you know a part of the plan so games i've always felt and simulations are the perfect training ground for AI but the plan is always always to develop general solutions that could be applied to real world problems and i think here is also it's very exciting in the sense that we've just now I feel got powerful enough and mature enough algorithms by now means anywhere near to you know full AI but there are already proving themselves to be useful in many real-world domains and I think that's another really fruitful error for all of you to explore is that how can you apply these systems to all sorts of applications now and we've applied it commercially within Google and elsewhere on lots of things I won't go into all of these these things but in healthcare we've done a lot work on energy and data centers other people have worked on personalized education virtual assistant I think that the possible applications are almost limitless we've I won't talk spend much time on this but one of our most recent pieces of work is we've improved the wind power again that with the the wimple uses a lot of wind power and renewables 700 megawatts and we get I've got 20% efficiency gain on what they were getting out of their wind power using machine learning and some of our machine learning systems and I'll just skip the various different aspects of that so I want to now focus on the last part of the talk which is so that's games there's commercial stuff you can do so that's all great but the thing I'm really passionate about is this section which is using AI for scientific discovery that has always been the reason that's the reason why I work on AI and the reason why I started my whole journey is I wanted to use AI to help us understand the universe around us better and so having AI is this incredibly powerful tool that we as scientists can leverage so I already think even with the current systems there which a you know need lots more improvement as I just mention in the previous slides but even even the current systems can be applied usefully to quite a lot of scientific problems and I put up here sort of three key characteristics if you like or problems that I think would if they have these characteristics would already be amenable to this type of alpha0 like approach so first of all number one is that the problem in by its nature is a sort of massive combinatorial search problem right so if it's got that kind of character I think that's well suited to this kind of system secondly can you express a clear objective function or metric that you can then optimize or hillclimb against right and again many domains is possible to do that and three are there lots of ground truth data obviously that's great but or and or so ideal is and but it can be all an accurate and efficient simulator for that domain and if I posit that you know propose that if those three things hold then you can probably use this type of system to help solve that problem and we ourselves are doubling down on this we're building a science team it's around thirty forty people now deep mine we want it to grow to about a hundred people if that's something you're interested in please come and come and talk to me and and and apply to us because I think there are a lot of different areas where we can apply these kinds of techniques even the ones we have already today and make some progress and here's just a sprinkling of some of the things we've looked at and in a few cases we've got serious projects on all the way from genomics and theorem proving to quantum chemistry and so on and it's been used successfully already by us in other groups in lots of areas exoplanet discovery are some of their colleagues at Google have done that discover new planets nuclear fusion we're looking at controlling the plasma in and and in these fusion reactors on health care like diagnosing a macular degeneration and even things like chemical synthesis and material design but I just sort of final part of my talk I want to talk about what I think is the most exciting thing that's happened deep mine in the last year and that's our program called alpha fold and alpha fold is our attempt to solve the protein folding problem which many of you will know what that is but for those of you don't this is basically the protein folding problem you get proteins are obviously the fundamental building blocks of life and all life depends on them including humans of course and what you start with is an amino acid sequence on the left here so there are 20 amino acids in nature and naturally occurring and these each one is like a letter and you get this big string of letters one D string of letters coming in and what you've got to do is predict the 3d structure of the protein from this 1d array of sequence right and you'd like to predict the 3dc protein structure and this is actually a protein structure of hemoglobin and you can actually see the little hole here in the middle of the hemoglobin that carries the oxygen right so this is kind of amazing I mean proteins are incredible when you read into them like what they do and and the businesses so it's such an important problem in biology is the structure of the protein the 3d structure determines its function right so so if we could understand or how these protease of structures we would much better understand what what these things were doing and you can think of them as like you know Millikan molecular machines so and there's lots of really cool videos of proteins working visualized on YouTube and you can have a look at them though these are two really cool ones like this is this produces this is an enzyme in mitochondria and it produces ATP which is the basically the energy for all you all live all living cells and on the right here is a calcium pump that replaces calcium it when you exercise your muscle contraction so they really like little biomechanical exquisite biomechanical machines and and I think if we can solve protein folding and there are ways of getting structures of proteins right but it's very painstaking crystallography you have to do can take like four or five years to do one protein and some some proteins are not crystallizable but if we could open that up then we could I think we'll have big impacts on disease understanding drug discovery and also synthetic protein design actually building synthetic versions or adjustments to these kinds of proteins so the way we try to do this is by going to our our deep learning systems and training a specific new type of system so just very quickly how this system worked alpha fold is we had a neural network and then we basically but we have this database of thirty thousand known protein structures that we have the sequence for obviously but also the 3d structure it's no it's known through crystallography and other methods and what we do is we train this neural network and we takes the the amino acid sequencing as an input we also augment the data in in in another way which I haven't got time to explain but by comparing the sequence against naturally-occurring sequences and so those are the inputs and then the outputs are predictions of angles of each each point in the in the protein and also add ISTA gram which is a pairwise distance in angstroms between estimated distance between every pair of a mean of amino acids in that sequence right and these are probability distributions of angles and distances and obviously for the training data we can recreate the angle outputs and add ISTA gram from the from the actual structure so this is trained in a supervised training way and then we have to do structure optimization so once we train that neural network we can put a new never-seen-before protein structure in and it will output two outputs the angle of distribution over angles and add ISTA gram right so once you have those two things how do you then end up with a structure and we tried all sorts of things here including your networks and RL and simulated annealing but in the end what's worked best so far is just a simple quasi Newton method a numerical optimization so what you do is you just take you randomly sample from this distribution of angles that gives you a distal am you compare that against the the output of the neural network that gives you two scores you also include a chemistry score band eval score which stops atoms being put on top of each other so that's calculated just through basic chemistry and that's all combined together into a total score V and then you you carry on hill climbing against this total score till you can't optimize it any further and then you output the candidate structure now we're actually working on we feel like there will be some of these neural network methods will work better ultimately than just just the Newton method but right now that's our current best method and this is what a protein looks like as it's getting folded so you saw it initially if we stop wait for the start of the gift file so it starts unstretched and then this is the optimization folding it more and more and there's smaller and smaller changes as the as the optimization process continues until there's nothing left Optima she'll be shortly and then that would be the output candidate structure so that's how it looks sort of visualized and so how do we test this system yes we tested it on CASP 13 which is the kind of like the Olympics of protein folding you can think of it's held biennially every two years and it's been going since 1994 all the top research groups around the world in this field compete so that 100 plus international research groups and it's a pretty fun competition because what happens is it's happened over the last summer once the competition starts they have what in biology they're they're trying to find the structure these proteins all the time using crystallography and so when a new person fight when a new group finds a structure of a new protein they before they published it if it comes if it's around the time of a caste competition they'll give the structure to the competition and it's and it's not being published yet right so we have that you have the ground truth the competition organizers have the ground truth but none of the teams know it right so it's a truly blind test and it's quite fun so every day for that three months you get emailed an amino acid sequence and then you have three weeks to scramble to submit a candidate right and then the next one comes in the next day and it's pretty fun for the Assoc was pretty fun to work on so so there's about 80 amino acids sequences that you get like this and then you you know you're supposed to hand back these predicted structures and so to cut a sort of long story short we won the competition kind of pretty unexpectedly and here is the ground truth okay coming we only have one person on the team that has ever worked on protein sequences so but but he's but he's very good he leads the team John John John John called John jumper and and so the graduates in green and you can see our predicted in blue and you know through these are three of the the proteins that we folded pretty well and they're pretty overlapping as you can see and but we didn't just win we won by quite a big margin so we won 25 of the 43 protein categories that we were proteins that were in the category were competing which was the hardest category and the net best team only won three out of 43 and also if you look at the average you know this is us on the purple bar is another very good team here and then it's pretty linear after that so you know we're good like 25% better than even the second-best team and then another so this really shows that these methods I mean obviously there's a bunch of it's been going on for twenty years so there's a huge amount of careful handcrafted systems in this area like there was in chess right so and obviously this is just a learning system and then here's another graph which is shows you basically this is the angstrom and angstroms 0.1 of a nanometer the angstrom error of each base in the in the sequence each amino acid in the sequence each residue and these orange lines are all the other teams this Purple Line is us and this is that this is the angstrom error and this is the percent of residues percent of amino acid sequence that sort of in bases that are have that much error in them so you can see all up to like 98% that we're within 10 angstroms so so that's pretty cool and so you know and so this is great for me because it's really we've been I've been talking about applying AI to science for a long time but this is really our first proof of concept that this really could work and in a really important area of science that would have a lot of impact and and I want to just carry out this is so we are state of the art and we know you saw the graphs and we won the competition but we're still a long way away from this problem being solved and by solved I mean useful for biologists so they don't have to do crystallography anymore or at least as much and you'll still need to do obviously to check the ground truth but as much and what they tell us is they want neither one angstrom error is the kind of tolerance they can deal with so we're still quite a long way away from being within one angstrom across the board and so we're continuing on this project and it's one of the biggest projects we've got going at the moment and we're exploring many many additional techniques I hope to when everyone our next come here to have some new results on that so I'm just going to finish by talking about the bigger picture a couple of slides on that and then we'll go to Q&A so so I feel like we're making good progress now on this thesis that always had that AI is a kind of meta solution I feel like in science and in many other areas of our lives information overload and system complexity are two of the biggest challenges we will try to overcome especially in the sciences and I feel like we've all got a lot of data big data sort of everywhere and for a long time people were talking about big data as being great but I think it's sort of kind of the problem so we've got all this data almost everywhere we look but how do we find the insights and process that data how do we how do we look for the right things inside that data and make sense of it and I think AI is potentially very powerful answer to that and the way I think about it is that intelligence can be thought of as a process a kind of automated process that converts unstructured information into useful knowledge and my dream is to make a I assisted science possible to allow us to make faster breakthroughs and you know it's it's a very very exciting time right now with it and I think AI holds an incredible promise for us as a society but I just a couple of notes of caution you know we like with any powerful tool we've got to make sure we build AI responsibly and for the benefit of everyone we build it responsibly and safely and you know I think as with any powerful technology it's inherently neutral in of itself it depends on how we as humans and our society decide we're going to deploy it and I think a lot more research and discussion is needed on the impact of this technology and if your interests in researching these topics like robustness and bias and safety please let us know we're because we're again we're expanding our work on that front and we've done a lot of collaborative work with outside teams and companies like the partnership on AI to try and increase this and as a final slide as a sort of the neuroscientist in me and we were just discussing this yesterday CBMM I think trying to build AI with the neuroscience inspiration behind it and neuro plausibility is a great way to actually understand the mind better ultimately because if we can distill up AI and intelligence into an algorithmic construct maybe we can then compare it to the human mind and then that will unveil us allow us to better understand mysteries like creativity dreaming and consciousness that we want to understand about our own minds so thanks for listening I just want to thank everybody all these amazing people at deepmind who worked on all these different projects and thank you all for listening [Applause] [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

=== VIDEO: H4VGSYGvJiA (https://youtu.be/H4VGSYGvJiA) ===


thank you for coming and I'm shakir and really excited to talk to you today about unsupervised learning and generative model so I wanted to maybe just start with a quick question to all of you few people want to shout out maybe the reasons they think unsupervised learning is important in machine learning generative models may be important or maybe if we have someone contrarian who thinks they aren't important everyone wants to throw up at the back so if you don't have enough label data to do supervised learning that's a great one another any other reasons or thoughts around what a generative model is the applications while we let people settle in anyone else ok so pardon using NLP used in NLP yes to do natural language generation of text or even audio or other kinds of things so well experiment and explore a lot of the different ways of generative models and unsupervised learning more generally I think you haven't seen anything around unsupervised learning thus far in this course but you've probably seen them we know this and so I thought we'd start with that so what the person said at the back why are we interested in unsupervised learning and the first reason that many people give is to move beyond associating simply inputs to outputs of images or features to labels or to targets but then there are other kinds of reasons like the example that was just given around in elpida we want to understand how the world is evolving how it's going to change over time and we want to be able to imagine and simulate these kind of potential evolutions of the world going forward in time there are these things which we recognize as people that are objects in the world they are objects like your computer like paper like a screen they have certain ways in which they are move they behave their factors are variation as they call them which we want to know related to that is we want to be able to do a more abstract kind of reasoning and so in this kind of abstract reasoning we want to be able to establish certain types of concepts a conceptual basis for the world and do reasoning and decision-making in that space we want to be able to know when something is new is interesting is surprising and we want to be able to generate plans about the way we will behave in the future the way you're doing reinforcement learning so all of these are the reasons why we are interested in unsupervised learning and I hope maybe we'll try and explore some of all of these kinds of things as we go through so but unsupervised learning will just be one part of far more bigger suite of things that really imagine and under various different names but one way to think of them are as complementary learning systems we have several different types of learning systems unsupervised supervised reinforcement learning semi-supervised other kinds of transductive learning then will all work together to complement each other for us to build these general-purpose learning systems right and so when we come to generative models are usually group their applications in their roles in three different areas we want to have generative models because we want to build products we want to build things which are useful which help our everyday lives so things like super resolution of images and video as we want to do transmission and compression of high bandwidth data streams we want to do text-to-speech for example to create accessibility tools then we want to move to areas of science we want to continue to understand how it is that the natural and physical world observes and then to do use those scientific basis to again inform other kinds of areas like healthcare and the social social world so things like proteomics drug discovery understanding celestial objects using high-energy physics where the big question in high-energy physics is how we move beyond the standard model that's what they call the current question now that we've found the Higgs boson what is beyond that standard model and then we have the tasks of reasoning and AI so can we do planning how do we do exploration as agents in the world to discover new here is how do we build self motivation and keep ourselves discovering new things and maybe part of what you've seen in the other half is around doing model-based reinforcement learning so these are all some of the different areas that I have in mind and different products so I'm gonna do a little experiment with you but I thought we're gonna do two halves and in this first half I thought we'd look at five tricks for manipulating probabilities and I'm gonna just discuss with you five self-contained tools mathematical and probabilistic tools that you can use in almost every part of machine learning and they're typically 4 4 into 3 parts one part will be about manipulating integrals another part will be about manipulating densities and another part of up manipulating gradients and these five tricks together you can use them certainly for generative models what we're going to discuss in the next part but you have already used some of them in reinforcement learning and in other areas of machine learning that you've covered before you've used them and I want to just represent them to you in a different light and then in the second part we'll do a brief introduction to generative models we'll look at the types of generative models that we have available and then we'll break generative models up into two parts prescribed generative models and implicit generative models and we'll look at the different kinds of ways of doing learning in these two types of models so ok here my five tricks and again I want you to try and experiment with you because I want to try and do this again later on at the machine learning summer school so please give me feedback at the end as to how you think it worked out so the thing that I want to leave you in this first half of this next 50 minutes is that I want each and every one of you to be able to build a probabilistic dexterity when you see probabilities and integrals and probabilities you can manipulate and mould them to do the things that you need to do and this is effectively the problem of machine learning so if we have this probabilistic dexterity if we have a set of tools which we can manipulate integrals probability distributions and their gradients then we will have the tools to solve the fundamental problems of machine learning in AR and some of these questions come up one of the most fundamental questions is always to compute the evidence of a set of data so if data X you want to know what is the probability that that dataset appears in the world and knowing this quantity is in fact one of the most fundamental quantities you can know in machine learning because if you know this probability X you basically know everything you know when it's surprising what is probable you know all its moments you know you can do everything from there rewriting this evidence estimation question in a different way so this first part is sometimes called the marginalized probability they integrated likelihood the partition function that has several different kinds of names you may want to do a simpler task than this you may just want to compute a set of moments this is because you want to summarize data in some way you want to compute this quantiles or certain expect Isles and knowing those quantities and reporting them is useful and so for example physics you want to do Six Sigma computations of whether something is actually there or not so then you'll want to do these moment computations where you'll compute an expectation of some function of a random variable the the notation is swapping around but just use it as a general idea of course the most fundamental problem in machine learning statistics is to do parameter estimation you want to actually know what the value of parameter theta of a model that you have is given some data X and if you want it to be frequentist then you will find the point estimate and a confidence interval around theta or if you are being Bayesian you would find the entire probability distribution and report either its central central area and then it's a confidence highest probability density region so this is probably the most common what you've done almost in every course in machine learning so far and of course we want to do prediction because once we have these models we want to use it to do something useful in the world the thing you've seen in the other part is to do planning so that if you have a certain cost function C and an action u that you are trying to take how is it that you can choose the set of actions you to maximize the cost under certain types of probability distribution so this was the fundamental equation that you were all solving to talk about man's equation and to learn the policy gradient theorem and to do value estimation as well then another kind of important one is for example if we are dealing with medical domain you will have multiple hypotheses that we are testing and you need to be able to compare those two hypotheses which one is better or which one has the effects that you wanted it to have and then the last one relate to the hypothesis testing is to do an experimental design how is it that I can take an action observe what happens in the world and then choose the actions of the next set of experiments that I will do so that I actually learn and so hidden in all of these things there are a probabilities and these probabilities are sometimes difficult you don't know what they are sometimes you are known to you partially sometimes you can only simulate you don't know them analytically in almost all of them there is a horrible integral it's just written one here but usually it's a d-dimensional integral over the dimension of things that you are dealing with so you can't solve it numerically in other cases they are gradients which need to be done through inverse probabilities and there are other normalizing constants that appear or in some cases that external factors which are affecting your model and so in all of these cases you will need to do some kind of manipulation and this is where this first part is and if we have those kind of tricks we can manipulate all these integrals all these gradients all these probabilities and then we can actually build a rich very rich and deep understanding of machine on so the first trick I wanted to present you you've all seen this before it's called the identity trick so whenever you have a problem that you have an integral or an expectation in some distribution P you may not like that integral you may not like P P is not your friend you can instead change the integral into an expectation under a different distribution q here is something you get to choose q is your friend so this is where you will use this identity trick and so here's the expectation you have an integral of some probability distribution x over a function f of X Y it's the expectation of X under the distribution P as I said you may not like this integral for various reasons because P is difficult to compute because F may be not differentiable for various reasons and you instead want to rewrite it as an expectation like this an expectation under a new distribution Q with some transformation of the function f so writing this G here and writing out the integral and so how you move between these two is to multiply your probabilities by one right so we're going to introduce a probabilistic one and I think you've seen this already at least in two different places so let's do let's apply this identity trick so here's an integral problem I want to compute the expectation of this distribution P of X given Z under the distribution P of Z so that's our integral problem and typically if you had studied graphical models before we had have seen this kind of latent variable problem has appeared before right and so the trick is to multiply this integral by one so I'm going to introduce this new distribution Q and Q divided by Q is 1 so the integral is exactly the same right but now I can regroup the terms I can leave P of x given Z and I can group P of Z divided by Q of Z as some new quantity and actually this ratio is something just to keep in mind we'll look at it a bit later and now there's a new distribution Z and now this is an integral which is an expectation under the distribution Q of this new quantity right and so this trick you can use almost everywhere and it's one of the most useful tricks you'll use it in reinforcement learning to do sort of policy Corrections you will use it in the next slide so there's just some things to know because we are dividing by Q you need to make sure that Q is greater than zero wherever this product of P times P is greater than zero and Q that you are into introducing and choosing must be something you should easily manipulate right and so this trick is obviously the basis of important sampling that you've seen before where we call the ratio P divided by Q the importance weight which is W you can simulate a sample from Q of Z and then you can evaluate this integral by Monte Carlo integration right and this is one of the most useful tools to keep in mind this to of integration by using Monte Carlo an important something is one of the most basic tools we have for manipulating probabilities but it is useful only if you want to know the value of an integral right because that's what important sampling does if you wanted to do more than know the value of an integral if you wanted to use it for learning then important sampling is not going to be quite useful but we'll come to that a bit later on so you would have seen this kind of identity trick not just an important sampling you will of you we will use it again later on to manipulate certain stochastic gradients if you are doing sort of probability theory you will always use this trick to derive certain types of bounds to show the convergence properties and asymptotic properties of their convergence and then if you're actually dealing with a reinforcement learning where you're thinking of off policy Corrections then you will always introduce these kind of ratios which will appear to handle these kind of settings so this is a very useful trick to have in mind the next kind of trick is the bound and trick and there's so many bounding tricks that I just chose the most general one to do and I'll mention a few others at the end but one of the most important results from convex analysis is that you can always take the function of an expectation can be bounded by the expectation of a function for functions f that are concave right and this is super useful because sometimes dealing with the function of an expectation is difficult to do and you want to swap the integral with the function that's coming up there and of course this is equal if the function is linear because expectation is linear but for other functions you won't have this probability so logs are the one we will always be interested in or most often interesting because we want to use log probabilities for numerical reasons and for simplification of the additive property and so we will always take the log of this integral which is the log of an expectation is the expectation of the log and this will be is also used almost everywhere you would have seen this in optimization of course because you are deriving what they ask what the rates of convergence of optimization algorithms are we're going to talk about variational inference and variational inference is derived on this quantity and if you've studied Monte Carlo Markov chain Monte Carlo in other courses then you would have proven that there Monte Carlo integrators or Markov chain Monte Carlo methods can have lower variance under what using raw Blackwell's theorem and the crux of our Blackwell theorem is to use this form of Jensen's inequality and there are many other ways of building kinds of bounds of probabilities this way the other very useful one is to use central duality and now the tool that we get from convex analysis then when you can turn use your central jewel then you can get another bound which will always be convex and bound the probability and then that will be useful for doing various kinds of other variational methods holders inequality which just helps you do products of probabilities into their products of the individual norms is always useful and many of you have heard about optimal transport and integral probability metrics and that's where this famous Monch kantorovich inequality comes in which helps you derive yet other kinds of bounds of probabilities and these three together and when you put all of them together you can build very flexible kinds of tools so the next one is about evidence bounds so we want to actually use this trick that we just used so again this is the integral problem I want to compute the evidence P of X which will be the integral of this likelihood function P of X given there again some distribution P of Z now I can introduce this identity trick again by multiplying by Q and dividing by Q and Q of Z was the proposal distribution in important sampling but here it may have a different name well recreate the importance way to P divided by Q multiplied by Q and when we did importance sampling at this point we said we're going to solve the integral by using Monte Carlo integration but now we're not going to solve the integral by Monte Carlo we're instead going to apply Jensen's inequality and so Jensen's inequality so now do this on the log of everything so add a log on both sides the log of P of X will be greater than the expectation on the Q of the log of this quantity and the inside right so just read that again now this is an integral and expectation of a Q of Z of this joint log probability and so we can just split that using the property of the log to an integral of the log probability P of X given Z minus the integral of this log ratio Q of Z divided by P of Z and this of course is a very famous lower bound it has very several several names but it will be called the evidence lower bound in this case it's often called the variation of free energy or just a variational lower bound but what we can talk about that more in the next section but just the point is to know that this is now a bound on the original quantity and knowing bounds of quantities is sometimes better than knowing the quantity itself because you know exactly what the minimum was and you can do manipulations on this which is easier than doing manipulations on this and so this is where this kind of trick of using bounds comes in and in all those previous inequalities this is the principle that when you use holders inequality or when you use the central dual to create a different kind of bounds you got a new problem which is actually simpler to deal with so I have a fourth trick which is called the density ratio trick and the density ratio trick is is a very simple trick there's often like you just saw an important sampling there's always a ratio that appears some ratio of two quantities and this density ratio trick says sometimes you aren't at the naive way to compute the density ratio is to compute the top part compute the bottom part then do the division and then that's why you get the number but that's actually sometimes very difficult to do and sometimes you aren't interested in knowing those individual quantities you only want to know the ratio directly so often computing the ratio is easier than computing the individual probabilities and that's where this this trick comes in and the trick simply says that if you want to know the ratio you can just build a classifier which will say classify samples from the distribution P style versus the samples from the distribution Q star and if you can build this classifier than that classifier has all the information that you need to compute the ratio of P divided by Q and in fact you just need to do this ratio of P of coming from class P to this is 1 minus P so not coming from class P I'll show you we'll do the derivation in the next line but this density ratio trick is also one of the most famous tricks we have in machine learning of course if you've heard of generative adversarial networks this is the core quantity or the core idea underlying generates about the cero Network but outside and if you go a bit wider in machine learning a bit outside of deep learning then you'll find a method called noise contrastive estimation and if you want to derive the noise contrastive estimator this is the trick that's being used if you've been studying Markov chain Monte Carlo methods there's a an approach called approximate Bayesian computation and one way of doing approximate Bayesian computation is using classifier by exploiting this trick some of you would have done hypothesis testing in the past and if you want to do hypothesis testing then one way of doing two sample hypothesis testing is to use this kind of trick and again any method where you have a difference between the distribution at test time versus training time what they call the covariant or calibration problem will do that is their question yes okay so let's do the derivation and then ask me this again are there any other questions at this point or let's do the derivation then we can have a discussion around all these tricks so okay let's do a reminder here's the problem you're interested in there's the density ratio of P divided by Q and it's always useful to keep in mind Bayes rule so Bayes rule it's just a rule to do inverting probabilities so to invert the probability of Y given X to the probability of x given Y using the ratio of the two marginals so what we're going to do is we're going to sample data from P star and sample data from Q of X and we're going to call all the data from P star x hat and all the data from Q X tilde and we're going to put them together into one big data set then because we are manipulating the probability we can always introduce the label so for every data point we are going to introduce a label and a new random variable so we're going to introduce this random variable Y and for all the data that came from P star we're gonna give it a label plus one and for all the data that came from Q we're gonna give the label minus one so that's not enough to set up a classification or a decision problem so there's an equivalence by doing this construction by construction P star of X can be written as the probability of P of X given the label y equals plus 1 because that's how we defined it we said every data point that came from what must be from P and similarly from Q and then we have this too so now you can see the trick gonna do P star of X divided by Q of X can be rewritten as the ratio of these two conditional distributions which are equivalent in all forms now we're gonna replace knowing P of X given Y is actually not nice to use my Bayes rule will help us to undo that so we're going to do the base substitution and we're going to replace all of this with distributions of P of Y given X instead so this is where the classification is going to come in now I'm doing a slight assumption here I'm assuming that the probability of P of y equals 1 is equal to the probability of P equals y equals minus 1 so I'm assuming there's a balance data set because I got to just draw the samples from P and Q but if they are not balanced then you will actually have the ratio of the imbalance which will be these two quantities and then P of X and P of X is the same on both sides because the data is invariant and those two will cancel so then what you're left with is this class probability it says basically to compute the ratio you just need to know the ratio of the two class probability you just need to know P of y equals 1 given X divided by P of y equals -1 given X right and so that is the point of this trip it says computing a density ratio is equivalent to compress tomato the class probability estimation then you do that so now coming to your question at the end the thing that answers your question is that you will do this quantity for 1x but you will do this in expectation over the whole data set or over two different data sets and then that's how you will use this for learning so ok so that's basically this density ratio trick and I have two last tricks and then then let's summarize and have a discussion about what these tricks mean so that was about manipulating densities and now I want to go to the problem of manipulating gradients themselves so one of the most common problems in all of machine learning in fact all of statistical science whether you call it statistic operations research in finance is to compute this quantity you have an expectation of a function and the expectations with respect to some distribution Q and you want to compute the gradient of this course this expectation but if you want to compute the radiant with respect to these district these parameters Phi which live in the distribution with which you're taking the expectation so I'm just gonna rewrite that integral out it's the gradient of the integral of the distribution Q what the parameter is Phi that we are introducing in again some function f that function may have some other parameters that for the purpose of this gradient computation we aren't going to be interested in and if the if all these were simple distributions that linear functions and it's may be one-dimensional you'd be able to compute this integral very easily but in general you won't know this be able to compute the integral and if you don't know the integral you can't compute the gradient and that's because these are high dimensional quantities and because they're high dimensional you won't be able to do the the gradient you won't know the expectation in closed form because typically you have nonlinear functions and very complicated non primitive distributions and the facts what really makes it complicated is that the gradient I introduced interested in is with respect to these parameters Phi and so we're going to need to do several tricks to manipulate this but I just wanted to point out where you would see this integral so we're gonna talk this integral is obviously one of the key things to Jean learning in generative models so we'll see in all the problems of inference in generative models that we use if you've already started down a lot of reinforcement learning and control and this is the key question to computing the expected expectation under your policy and doing policy learning in the policy gradient a framework for doing reinforcement learning in operations research you would F is set up the same problem of estimating a queueing problem and then wanting to know the probability or queueing rate and then you would get the same kind of question coming up if you're doing Monte Carlo simulation in finance they actually have a name for this gradient it's some Greek alphabet Alpha Gamma Delta it just depends which gradient you are taking so all the finance is basically about computing this integral and they have entire textbooks just to give us all the tricks to compute this integral and actually in many other areas of optimization they will call knowing this quantity or doing this kind of analysis sensitivity analysis so it's really one of the most fundamental things that we know a lot of tricks from many other areas so they're to basically two things you can do with an integral like this we manipulate you do some trick with F or you do some trick with Q and basically this is everything that you can do there are two other tricks you can do on an integral like this but not useful for us this machine learners because we want to build scalable large-scale easily easily codable solutions so let's look at those two and I'm going to call things where we manipulate F a path wise estimator and you'll see why we'll call it the pathways estimator later and we'll call things where we manipulate Q a score function estimate and you also see why that's the case so the first one is based on the long term relative trick and it's not really a trick because it's basic basic calculus it says the gradient of a log is just equal to that quantity the gradient of the quantity divided by itself right so the gradient of a log must be this and you're just going to use this fact that you can jump between so why this is important is that it takes you from gradients of a log probability to gradients of a probability so you can just jump back and forth between these two things whenever you like so and that kind of manipulation is very flexible because it lets you rewrite the integral in much more interesting ways so it has several useful properties which we've already seen so if you have done a course in statistics and you know what maximum likelihood is which you all do then you would obviously know this key quantity that gradient of a log probability is called the score and the expectation of the score is always zero and this is why we actually use it for and how you prove this and this is part of building this probabilistic flexibility you'll have to derive it on paper now but eventually you should all get to the point where you see this thing and then you see well oh obviously this is true because I can replace this graded by Delta Q divided by Q this Q that Q will cancel you take the grade and outside of the expectation the gradient the integral of a distribution is one in the gradient of something that's one is zero and that's why this thing is it's true right and this thing you have also seen if you have started the policy gradient theorem because this was the key thing that they used to make sure that it was sensible and then the other interesting property of the score is that the variance of the score is called the Fisher information and this is one of the most important quantities in all of Nonnie because this is the claim or a lower bound which is the minimum variance estimator that you can get is defining this in terms of this quantity and so all of the properties of maximum likelihood that we get come from this just this simple using this simple trick so let's use this trick to manipulate that first integral that we have so here's the integral and now it's the gradient again of expectation of a function f with respect to distribution Q now I'm going to use the liveness integral rule which means that I'm going to swap the gradient in to the end the integral and you can typically do that for these probabilities because they're all operate in the same domain they're all continuous and so the kind of conditions that you need are true and I can point you to a much more deeper paper if you actually want to see all the the depths of actually why it is that you can do that but and as I said we are going to try and manipulate this quantity Q so what I'm going to now if the gradient goes inside so that's why this gradient of Q times f I'm going to use the identity trick again so I'm just going to multiply by one now I'm going to reform this ratio of Delta Q divided by Q and then that basically using the log derivative trick from above means that this quantity is just the log the gradient of the log probability and exactly the reason why we use identity tricks is that this now is the new expectation with respect to Q this is an expectation under the distribution Q of this function f times the gradient of the log probability right and I'm going to do one more step which is I just said to you the good and useful property was that the expectations of this long probability are zero and so I can actually subtract any other quantity some constant any constant C and because that constant C is independent of the parameters and the expectation of this thing is zero it doesn't affect anything that I'm doing but the thing that it will affect is the gradient the variance of this quantity and knowing the variance in controlling the variance is a whole area of statistics which is called control variant estimation and knowing how to choose see what the optimal C is for your particular problem is something you can design and let me reax plain this equation to you the way you learnt it in reinforcement learning so in reinforcement learning q is what you called the policy and you wanted to compute the policy gradient which is the gradient with respect to the policy parameters which are Phi in this case you had a reward function which was log Q and then you call this reinforce well the word function is f sorry and then you have the gradient of this log key which is the policy and so then you said things that have high reward f you will reinforce that gradient and then you will send it up and things that have low reward F well then you will not reinforce and then you will multiply that policy gradient and then you also introduced this thing called C what you called the in had various names I don't you just call it a base line I think in reinforcement learning but in statistics we will call this the control bears and then you can design this and knowing that in reinforcement learning you have a particular n MVP you can design a C for your MVP and if you were doing finance problem where you were computing a time series of returns of a stock then you'll be able to compute a C using the kind of auto regressive model you were building for that sound so there's lots of different names also some people you'd like to call this the likelihood ratio method I think that's a bad bad name so don't ever call it that I'm just telling you so when you Google you'll sometimes see this and in some reinforcement learning textbooks they use this terrible naming then of course you've seen a reinforcement reinforced algorithm and the policy gradients are built in this exact concept and then in other areas like more in probabilistic inference reinforcement learning they would call the automated inference or sometimes black box inference right because this is a kind of black box in to go and when will you want to use this kind of integral you will use it when this function f is not differentiable because you don't need to differentiate it all you need to be able to do is evaluate the function f what you need to do though is evaluate this expectation so you will assume that Q is something which is simple that you can sample from and because you want to differentiate Q you will need to be able to take its derivative you will need to know it analytically so almost all problems can have this thing so this is usually the first default way of approaching a gradient estimator so let's do a different trick and this one has many different names but most common today people call this the Reaper amortization trick so every distribution can be re-expressed as a function of some other distribution or so let's do this so I have a distribution Q of some function of some random variable said this distribution Q can always be re-expressed in terms of a deterministic function with some parameters v which will transform another distribution which will have some distribution epsilon intercept so the simplest one to do is to think of the inverse sampling theorem you have a uniform distribution all uniform distributions can be transformed into another distribution using the inverse CDF of the distribution you are interested in right and this was the first thing you learned about probabilistic sampling and this is if you always think in this uniform setup you'll be able to derive the most generic form of what this trick is but typically we use other just slightly more we don't use start to primitive distribution as the uniform we use other distributions like gaussians betas bernoulliís etc and how I like to think of that is more like a set of pipe so you have some distribution which we start off with which is this base distribution P of Z and what I was calling P of epsilon here sorry for the mix-up and then you have to sort of things which mix into this pipe you have some parameters mu and some parameters R and then they get mixed up through this function R so the case of a Gaussian is just mu plus R times ed and then once you get out is a new distribution instead and knowing this pipe in knowing the configuration of the pipe is useful for the gradient because you can follow the path of this pipe backwards and it is this reason because of this transformation of this variable through the path function G to get this new random variable said that this the trick that we're about to talk about will be called path wise estimation or path wise computation and so the main point of Reaper ammeter ization trick like every route parameterization is just the change of variables rules for probability and if we had more time I would have done a whole trick just for change of variables rules and sure you instead of how they appear in continuous and discrete spaces but we're gonna skip that today but just know that this is the rule for the change of variables if you have a distribution epsilon and you have some function that changes epsilon to Z like here you can know the distribution P of Z by computing this gradient and multiplying by the original thing this is you learned this in calculus under the change of variables and the rule is identical when we come to it in probability and we're going to use this trick and just keep in mind that because we are probabilities and we must exist in a probability space where things must integrate to one and volume is never lost as a conservation property you can always use this sort of loose notation just to say the volume of probabilities must be conserved that P Z times D Z must always PE times de and you must these things can be equal that's why you can do manipulations by substituting this for this so let's just do the trick a bit of a non rigorous weird kind of derivation but I think it will work so again this is our integral problem it is the integral of a distribution of a function f against the distribution Q and we want to know the gradients with respect to Phi and you have a known transformation which is G which transform samples epsilon with parameters Phi into Z so we're going to do this change of variables now let's write this a bit slowly just say you see wherever you see that you can replace that by the function G of epsilon comma Phi because that is what the substitution rule is and then I said well Q of Z can be rewritten in terms of epsilon using this change of variables rule so it's P of epsilon which is the base distribution times the derivative D epsilon over D Z and there's this gradient which is going to appear because of the change of variables rule so I'm also going to change DZ to D Epsilon and the way you do DZ to D epsilon is to know that these epsilon DS there is equal to G prime and so again this is where this volume is being preserved right and then I'm going to apply the inverse function theorem on this derivative D epsilon by DZ and that effectively is going to cancel out this derivative here G Prime and so G Prime will disappear and then basically what you'll be left is with an expectation on the P of epsilon instead then of the function of G directly and now actually the integral is over epsilon which has nothing to do with Phi so now you are free to take the gradient directly through and you don't have to worry about any there are no conditions to check the gradient can just go directly through the integral and so this then is basically what is called this path wise gradient estimator it says that if you no change of variables for Q you can then rewrite it through this path wise gradient estimate of Epsilon and a simpler distribution P of epsilon of the gradient of the function of the change of variables and this is nice to do because now it's just back prop you just can take the gradient of fee of f through G to get to Phi right and this is why in other papers we call this stochastic back propagation it's called the real parameterization trick and for every other area of probability outside of machine learning they will call this the pathways estimate pathways great and estimator so where you would have seen this before is when you learnt about the basics of expectation they would have maybe mentioned this things you call the law of the unconscious statistician which is if you are given a transformation how can you compute this expectation under that transformation and so you will see this is the point of doing this change of variables as I mentioned we call the stochastic back propagation this idea of computing gradients is where they could call this perturbation analysis and under perturbation analysis you can do derive certain other variations of this gradient there's the reaper ammeter ization trick and other people have called this a fine independent inference and in fact this trick is also used in Monte Carlo sampling but I forget the name the name of it I have a reference at the end so when when should you use this kind of gradient estimator so now you need to do it much more you actually need to differentiate through F so f you need to be know F and F must be differentiable again Q is a distribution with the transform you need to be able to rewrite Q of Z in terms of P epsilon and a deterministic function G and so these functions can be anything can be the inverse CDF which is how you'll derive the most generic form of this root parameterization trick it can be a location scale transform like this function here for the Gaussian or it can be any other kind of coordinate transform that you have and then you want to make sure that this base distribution P epsilon is actually something simple and easy to sample from okay so that was basically five tricks we looked at the identity trick and the identity trick was a way of rewriting an expectation from one distribution to another this is the number one trick it's the first thing you will probably do for most everything so one of the most useful things to know then we looks at one bounding trick based on Jensen's inequality but building bounds is one of the most useful tricks for doing learning and when you especially when you want to build very large scale learning algorithms that go to millions and tens of thousands of parameters the density ratio trick is a useful one because like you saw an important sampling like you see in reinforcement learning like you saw in almost all the other tricks there's always a ratio of two distributions that appear and this ratio can give you knowledge of how things are we gonna look at that the log derivative trick basically exploits the the definition of what the gradient of the log is to show the properties of log likelihood functions and score functions we showed the basis of maximum likelihood and then we looked at three parameter ization tricks which effectively just deployed the rule for change of variables of probability in all different settings to help us derive different kinds of gradient estimators so basically the point of this half was just to leave with you the message to sharpen your probabilistic tools to always search for those tricks that means you can manipulate probabilities in the right way and as these tricks show that if you manipulate them you can actually do very interesting kind of things that transform what were difficult problems that you could only solve in 1d two things that you can work on imagenet scale of data ok so that's the end of the first half we can take a 10-minute break or have a discussion on any questions around what we discussed in the first half are there any thoughts questions comments confusions No okay so let's take a 10-minute break and then we'll come back into the second bar okay so equipped with these five tricks I want to actually talk about generative model it's the topic that we're here to talk about and I'm going to talk specifically about two types of models prescribed and implicit models this is the way I split thinking about generative model so who wants to tell me what density estimation is anyone once the volunteer and explanation what is density estimation no takers today good guess shot from the back okay so we're going to look a little bit about density estimation people don't talk about density ation density estimation that much so let's talk a bit about models see you have typically you have been looking at conditional models so when you are building a classifier you are doing supervised learning it is a conditional model because it is a P of Y conditioned on some other observed variable X right and typically these kind of models are called regression models or classification models or in the most generic sense conditional density estimation and I'll I'll say what density estimation is then the other side is to not be conditional is to do unconditional models so that's typically what people mean when they say supervised learning you want to learn P of X like someone said at the back earlier there's no targets there's no labels and typically a generative model is meant an unconditional model but even that you know it's not it's not something you should really live by I guess the key point of this is to know that they are conditional and unconditional models and these are the things we're going to be building but that every probabilistic model in some form of the other is a generative model and I'm just pointing this out is that generative model can be an odd word to use it can be an odd statement may be meaningless at some point in time so just always think about and clarify as to what we're going to mean so we're going to talk about generative models of particular Pines right so the first thing to think about is density estimation when you did your first thinking about statistics and probability then you were exposed to this idea of the density of data and knowing its probability and you did that kind of density estimation by histograms by kernel density estimation then later on came PCA and factor analysis and then mixture models came so these were the basic tools of density estimation and they were any way of learning about the probability density P of X from observed data and all we're going to do is continue in this tradition and build richer models that are going to help us deal with really complex data so when a generative model can mean various different things many people will refer to a generative model by this word to generate so a model that allows us to learn a simulator of data right so in that case you can simulate you can generate and a model that lets you do that then is a generative model for some other people you will talk about a model for density estimation and that will be a generative model so if you are learning P of X in some way or some high dimensional P of X then that will be it and for other people will be just anything that is unsupervised will also be a generative model in some some way or the other so you can choose whichever definition that you like but typically the characteristics that's come between all of them is that there are probabilistic models that have some form of uncertainty some form of distribution that we're going to be manipulating typically we're always going to target the distribution of the data P of X either directly or indirectly and the keeping I think that makes it a generative model rather than just calling to classify is that you have very high dimensional output so a classifier has very low dimensional output it's 1 in binary classification 1,000 for imagenet but it's not more than that whereas P of X or generative models are entire images entire sequences of events entire speech signals so these are sort of some of the definitions so I will always encourage people to think about machine learning in as built up of three components you have models and models are the thing that you used to describe the world that you use to describe the data that you're actually dealing with and to describe your problem it will put all your domain knowledge or the ways of things you think you should represent knowledge in the world and that will be what you have in your model now you also have data which came from the problem that you are thinking about and then we have learning principles and learning principles are those things that connect the data that you have with the model that you have specified and you need this thing that helps you interface these two things and so you will always have these learning principles and then for any choice of model and for any choice of learning principle you can then put those together to form an algorithm and even an algorithm you can form in very for even the same model and the same principle of learning you can create many different kinds of algorithms and I think if you keep this structured point of view in mind that is how you will see the connections like we did in all those tricks to every other area of statistical science whether that is in computational neuroscience or in probability theory or in operations research or even in machine learning and that is how we will see that things are the same used in different ways and how we can actually learn those tricks from other fields to make our own world better so I want to talk just a little bit about models there are two types of models that will break them into one are the fully observed models so fully observed models are models that you build based on the data that you see only right so they introduce no unobserved variables and so here you have a undirected graphical model with a threeway factor that is an unobserved graphical is a model of both the machine is another kind of model of that form or you have these kind of auto regressive models care order regress auto regressive models they are fully observed they only for build dependencies based on observed data and things that you can actually measure in the world then you have latent variable models and latent variable models do that the opposite of that they introduce other variables which cannot be observed in the world but which we can learn about based on the data that we have seen and latent variable models are both of these are equally popular machine learning and undulation variable models will have two different kinds of latent variable models one will be the prescribed models and prescribed models are models where you will decide that the observational data that you have has some kind of likelihood function there is a noise model and by choosing a noise model say in this graphical model we have a random variable Z which is unobserved and then we have a new random variable X which itself has some distribution that we choose and this is a lot of knowledge that we add we basically say that we can know something about the probability that this data X has in the world even if it's just saying that it has Gaussian noise that is a useful amount of knowledge and that is the likelihood function that we write in all other areas of statistics and machine learning and this is why this prescribed models are basically likelihood based methods of estimation right and similarly up at the top they are also prescribed in this sense that the observed models also use likelihood functions and they are they are prescribed but implicit models they basically use this trick of the change of variables that we discussed earlier they take a random variable Z and transform it through some function f and that is what they say they say that you can simulate data instead and so these models are sometimes called likelihood free models so if you are reading in biostatistics you will often see this expression of likelihood free estimation and likelihood free model so we're going to look at this but most of the time we'll spend talking about latent variable models so when it comes to learning principles you now have a whole plethora of learning principles to choose from the first ones that you exposed to what the exact methods where you did enumeration of all the probabilities using a probability table or you learnt about conjugate exponential family models where you could do things in closed form you also did in numerical methods numerical integration for simple one-dimensional maybe two dimensional integrals you computed the integrals exactly other methods like the generalized method of moments maximum likelihood maximum a-posteriori laplace estimation and so on and on and on so many and many more being added all the time and hopefully you would have seen at least a little bit of all of these different kinds of methods but we all look at maximum likelihood expectation maximization variational methods and well I should update this list we'll look at one other thing which well just generically called non maximum likelihood so things which live outside this list so now you get to choose one of your models and you get to choose literally any one of these learning principles and then that's how you will fuse your data in with your model and then you will be able to build an algorithm of some sort so this is where everything comes on so let's go through four different cases so that you understand this thing so you can take a convolution on your own network this is a model this model encodes the fact that we want to model images images have certain translational properties and because of those invariance and translational properties we will use convolution so that's what goes into the model we're going to choose to do penalize maximum likelihood so that is maximum likelihood with penalty Ridge regression methods or map map estimation which is core and then you get to build an algorithm in various different ways you get to choose what kind of optimization that you get are you going to use some precondition optimizer are you going to use some stochastic optimized are you going to use a batch method like BFGS you can choose what kind of penalization you will use whether it's l2 r1 what other kinds of regularization you are at and all of these will build very different kinds of algorithms that you will test and this is the thing that you're doing sweeps over when you're doing experiments let's look at this one which are we won't talk about today you have the restricted Boltzmann machine which is the latent variable model and it's undirected and you can do maximum likelihood estimation to learn the parameters which live in these arrows and there are various different kinds of algorithms that you can create you can solve that by doing contrastive divergence which is built based on building a Markov chain to sample the Z's given X you can do a variation of that called persistent contrasted divergence you can do other ways of manipulating the gradients by tempering and natural gradients and the two things we are going to look at today are latent variable models Plus variational inference that we can build many different algorithms we can create a variation of the e/m algorithm we can do another algorithm call expectation propagation we can do other simplifications call approximate message passing more recently we've creates things call variational autoencoders and then with the implicit generator model setting we can do the same thing we can use two sample testing as our learning principle and then we can create many different algorithms based on what we have based a method of moments using approximate Bayesian computation or the way we do it in generative adversarial networks but all of these take the same model the same inference and then end up with very different looking algorithms but they're not actually that different right they may behave different have different kind of use cases but they are they have a lot to share with each other so let's talk about different types of generative models and when you want to build a generative model there will be several design dimensions you want to think about the thing is like how will you choose your model and choose your corresponding principles you will need to think about the data that you have whether the data is binary whether it is real valued whether it's some mixture of the two whether they have some ordering involved in the data and that data is going to affect how you will design your model you will need to think about the dependency structure in that data can you assume that you just have a set of images that are all independent or iya dealing with the time series in which case there is a temporal structure which you need to account for or are we dealing with some maps where we're modeling bird movements or forest fires and then there's a spatial aspect that we have to deal with you need to think about elements of the representation that were gee are those latent variables we will introduce or unobserved variables or dealing with the causality continuous or the discrete or there's some mixed are the continuous-time on the discrete-time and then we the last one is often to think about the kind of dimensionality we want to deal with are we going to deal with parametric functions and parametric models which means we're going to build very large functions with lots of parameters that we're going to choose by optimization or are we going to do some other kind of methods which are nonparametric infinite dimensional that will rely on the data to inform the kind of predictions or inferential questions that we ask and then you have other kind the things which really affect your decision-making the computational complexity the modeling capacity that they have whether there's bias whether you need uncertainty how well calibrated those models are as it they represent the probability of the data that you saw whether your model is interpretable to humans or not all of these things matter and there is a generative model that you can decide and design based on what your needs are so the first kind of generative model have these fully observed models and as they said a fully observed model deals on the data directly and they don't introduce any other variables other than what is observed so here is a chain of data and the data is just dependent only another data point and of course all the arrows represent some kind of functions and I just want to make a distinction between two different things we call sometimes these model parameters we'll call them global parameters global parameters are things which are relevant to all data points that you see and often you will talk about local variables or local parameters and local variables and local parameters are something which are specific to individual data points so typically parameters theta of your model are something you learn over the whole data set but you will learn latent variables em4 data point xn so this is this distinction between local and global variables and so one kind are fully observed models are Markov models they will start with some X 1 with a categorical distribution then you above build an autoregressive chain we'll say X 2 is the categorical distribution conditioned on X 1 with some function pi and so on and so forth until you reach X I this is one of the most children the oldest model probably in all of computational thinking people have won Nobel prizes for building a model like this right and so very important and very powerful and then you can write the joint probability as simply the product of I or P of x given all previous FS and depending on what she chooses F if F allows you to do some variable order you can build infinite dimensional or K order autoregressive models and you can condition these kind of models on other external quantity and what for example in economics you'll hear is called these narcs models and nonlinear auto regressive models with exogenous variables if you've seen those these are all these models but for the case that I am thinking of the case that many people do these days all these functions are for PI R builds by deep neural networks so that you can actually build and learn Mis cannibal way so fully observed models have several properties as I said because they are fully observed they directly encode how data points are observed in the world which means you don't need to make too many assumptions about what's going on any data type can be used whether it's discrete or continuous or even a mixed and if you're building a directed graphical model like the graphs that I was just showing where there is the arrow of dependency then parameter learning is going to be very simple you can write up the log likelihood that we wrote there before and then you just need to take simply the gradient and that is the easiest thing you can do you know the log likelihood exactly and you can do that fast and you can scale this out to very large models then you have lots of different kind of optimization and lots of different applications over time but of course there is this order which were using things in and so there's an order sensitivity which is coming in and if we were dealing with directed models then think undirected models and that's much more difficult because parameter learning in undirected models is very difficult because we need to know the normalizing constant it's not known as in the directed case and generation can be very slow in either of these models because we need to go through the sequential process of simulating from the Markov chain but when you do do that for example one model called pixel CNN and it has now various kinds of instantiation thus far can give you like really amazing unconditional samples or conditional samples in this case that really sure it has learnt to date on and really can do amazing things so if you want to look at sort of the space of different kinds of models then one way to think of there would be along an axis of directed models versus undirected graphical models and another axis of continuous variables versus discrete variables and then you in any quadrant that you choose you can find a kind of fully observed model across any any area of statistical science so let's choose a good block so here's a good one undirected graphical models with continuous variables for example many of you would have studied thousand mrs which are Markov random field and then these are models there and then you can learn about all the things in this they are long linear models as they're sometimes call people don't work in this space anymore of discrete and undirected models but both of machines are there Ising models hopfield networks parts models live in this case but where most people work in this case is in the discrete and directed case this images can be represented between 0 and 255 and so that's discrete and you can build made fully visible sigmoid belief networks this pixel CNN which I just described to you any RNN language model that people brought which in this category and other models which live outside even of more the mainstream like context-free switching algorithms that live in this space so so a lot of fun fun models and to explore in this in this space so then we'll go to the second part which are these latent variable months the latent variable model introduced and unobserved and what we'll call local random variables so instead of only X there's now another variable said and that is something you can't measure but said is something very powerful because introducing said a helps you understand issues around the causal structure of the data and the world that you're dealing in and it allows you to build very complex dependency structures so you don't need to design the dependency structure by hand you can introduce the Z integrated out and then it will induce the dependency structure in X which is the thing you actually want to have and so here's one kind of model which is called a deep latent Gaussian model it's a directed graphical model it has several layers of latent variables which are stochastic hidden layers and then you connect them through deep networks in any way that she likes example z3 from a Gaussian you can sample z2 conditioned on z3 from a Gaussian with parameters mu and Sigma that are functions of the previous Z and we can create a tree a hierarchy in this case and then finally we'd get your final the observed data where we choose a likelihood function when this case it is a Gaussian but it can be anything can be Bernoulli distribution for binary data can be a multinomial distribution if we had some form of categorical data and it can be products for mixed mixed kind of distributions or non-negative quantities so latent variable models have very different properties they have very easy sampling because you can just follow this tree and then you can start from dead tree generates it to generate said one get the sampling they're an easy way to include this hierarchical structure or depth into your model and it's easy to encode the structure that you believe in the world so for example physicists actually do have knowledge about how they think the image of the galaxy appearing on the telescope appears how every pixel appears and you can put that knowledge in build a graphical model very similar to what what I just showed you in the previous slide and you avoid this order dependency that we saw because marginalization this integration of the latent variables induces dependencies and latent variables have a different interpretation if you are thinking putting your hat on from information theory or from compression theory as a compression or representation of the data and I guess one of the important things is that we always want to do model scoring we want to do model comparison we want to choose the best model for the problem that we have and being able to compute the marginalize likelihood is what we can do in latent variable models but what is difficult is that you need to know these latent variables and to be able to do any of these things and that inversion process is very hard it can be difficult to compute the marginalize likelihood which is why we need all the tricks from part one and it may not be easy to specify because you need to know these sort of going back to this inversion process you may have to choose the kind of family of approximations and that can be hard to do but in when you do that you can build very flexible and powerful latent variable models of images for example and this is a model called draw so we'll just quickly look at this one but again there are lots of different dimensions for which you can build a model you can choose linear models versus deep models you can choose parametric models versus non parametric models you can choose continuous latent variables versus discretely variable and then you can build sort of lots of different models in different cases so maybe something you haven't thought of or seen before these deep nonparametric and discrete models so there are lots of models in this case one example what they call cascaded Indian buffet processes which are now a sequence basically of discrete infinite dimensional distributions of a binary object or if you've heard of a something called Jewish lay process then you can build a hierarchical darshan a process which is the nonparametric extension of a model call Lda that lives in that corner or the Mun we are actually going to look at today are deep parametric and continuous latent variables nonlinear factor analysis nonlinear Gaussian belief networks and all these deep latent gaussian models like v AE the v AE algorithm in draw so we're going to look at that but lots of other models to look at and I just want to highlight separately from the latent variable models which I just described to these implicit models implicit models are simulators they transform an unobserved source of noise into data using a parametrized function f so we saw this picture before when we looked at their path wise gradients in the pathways estimation this is exactly of that form we choose some source of noise and then we choose a path through which to transform that noise and because we will know F we're going to manipulate F and use the knowledge that we have to learn its parameters and learn a generative model in this way and again we're going to use the change of variables will be the central quantity that will exploit when we do this and the model that most people see today is this one here which is the generator network from DC Gann and which just simply starts is choosing a Gaussian latent variable and then you create a function f which is this deep continent which actually grows art and image but the function f can literally be anything can be a linear function can be a deep neural network can be a recurrent model like in El STM it can be a non parametric function like a sequence of Gaussian processes lots of different things he can use implicit models have different properties and some they are also easy to sample and easy to specify because you can just write out this function f it's very easy to compute the expectations we because all you need to do is just sample from the noise and generate from the function and then you basically can take averages over the samples and it's very easy to exploit large scale classifiers in confidence when you design those functions but if you had any constraints like these functions if they needed to be invertible if there were other kinds of constraints you needed to do then an optimization can be very difficult and the invertibility may be hard to maintain there isn't this likelihood which seems to be an advantage but is sometimes a disadvantage because not having a likelihood model is what causes you to be unstable during optimization and to not learn the correct probability density but the main reason is that you can't extend to generic data types if your function is continuous the data you generate is continuous if your function is discrete you will generate discrete data but well you won't be able to handle discrete data and it's very hard to compute the marginalization and your model scoring in this case but again lots of different things to consider the one we are going to look at on this time we're going to look at functions that operate in discrete time but you could also easily look at these kind of implicit models which are diffusions based in continuous time so we're going to look at one line sampling transformations which we looked at in the earlier trick normalizing flows fits into this which we won't discuss today and generator networks in ganz and volume and non volume preserving optimizations but you've already seen some of these if you looked at the launch of is de or Hamiltonian Montecarlo or you know simple physical sarcastic differential equations okay I want to talk about influence in prescribe models so these are models with latent variable with the likelihood function so the model evidence are the marginal likelihood or the partition function is the key quantity we will be interested in and that means we want to integrate out Z to know P of x1 and the learning principle of knowing the bayesian model evidence is that all we want to do is at every step of optimization every time we look at our data we want to make sure that this model evidence becomes maximized we want the maximum evidence the highest probability of data that we can possibly have and that's why optimizing the model evidence is the principle for learning and so that's the principle we if we have these latent variables we want to integrate said to know P of X and once we know P of X we're going to maximize it to try and get to learn the best model possible of course there's an integral which is very difficult to compute so maybe some of our tricks will be useful here and the basic idea is to transform this integral which is an integral of an expectation of some distribution into an expectation of a distribution that we choose and once we can choose that distribution then we can be more flexible all right so we've seen that before we use the identity trick and Jensen's inequality to derive this lower bound on the marginal likelihood and as I said this marginal likelihood is called the variational free-energy and it's the basis of what we will call variational inference which is one of the most popular methods for doing inference in latent variable models and it is called the variational free-energy because I chose to introduce this distribution Q and I'm free to choose the distribution Q that allows me to best match the model likelihood and so what I'm gonna have to do here is learn something about Q but I also have to learn what about P where's the model the model that I'm actually interested in and as I said it's sometimes called the evidence lower bound because it is a bound on the model or the data evidence and I said we need to choose true in the two tricks we used here with identity trick and the bounding trick so this just lets me allow you to explain in general what the variational principle is a variational principle is just a family of methods that allows you to approximate something difficult with something simple right and by being variational that word variation you can substitute it with the word functional it is an optimization in a functional space right so here some complicated distribution this distribution is the density and the density is a function special kind of function and so this is a variational problem because I'm going to choose an approximating class of functions and it is variational because I'm going to try and find the best function to match that function and you can do this directly using functional gradient descent which is what we call the variational calculus but we're going to try and avoid the variational calculus because we can actually put ramit rise these distributions through other parameters file and that means we can do parametric optimization or standard optimization and the parameters Phi right so this is in general which is why even though this is called variational inference there are lots of things which are variational methods in fact reinforcement learning is itself a variational method because the policies PI are these functions which are doing a functional descent over or you know they're many all of information theory fits into this kind of thing and building lots of other bounds lets you build variational methods so just be flexible there are lots of very few methods that exist out there and we want to fit these variational parameters Phi so in very tional inference there are two terms there's this first term which is a log likelihood of log P of x given that this is the model you get to choose so this is for example a Gaussian distribution in which case this is an l2 loss and then you get a penalty term which is going to say that this distribution Q that I have chosen should be something close to my prior PI and this is good because this is a penalized way of doing learning and we always want to have regularizes and the other thing that's useful is that you didn't need to design the regularizer just by applying the variational principle and applying these two tricks I likelihood a reconstruction term appeared but also the correct and you know regularization appeared and this distribution Q that we introduced which was when we did importance sampling was just some generic distribution was a proposal now this distribution Q has a meaning it is a posterior distribution it is something that tries to invert the probability it tries to give you the probability of Z given X so in all the slides that's here before the notation is a bit sloppy you should read Zed given X here and I'll try and fix them when I put that on line so again Q of Z tries to match the true posterior P of Z given Y and P of knowing P of Z given Y is one of the useful information quantities and then you have a reconstruction cost which I talked about and then a natural penalty which is the mechanism for Occam's razor now just some comments on this distribution Q by having this problem Y was an ugly integral is now enough to problem because we can just how use this is the last function and there are two types of parameters there are parameters theta which live in P and there are parameters Phi which live in Q and these are the two things you need to optimize and so this is now much easier problem to do as I said I've been writing Q of Z but it actually depends on the data and sometimes I'm using X and sometimes I'm using Y sorry for that and you have easy convergence assessments because this is a bound every time you do an improvement the bound can only go in one direction it must go up and so you'll be able to this is how you can actually plot while you are testing this and then you have purel parameters of cubes in okay so the key thing here I want to just switch to talking about this distribution Q of Z so cubes there was something you had to choose and as I said it is something that's trying to match the true posterior distribution which is said given X this probability of Z given X so what do real-world distributions posterior distributions look like so here's an example that was made on M NIST in two dimensional latent variables and by enumeration I'm just going to show you what the real posterior distribution for certain kinds of simple models look like so here's a simple model it has two latent variables it's simple one layer with a Gaussian output and the what is the real distribution is the gray thing so you just need to look at the gray thing it's the same in each kernel it's just a different zoom levels and what are blue are samples from this Q distribution which we sample from after training this method so you can see in some cases you can't see because of the light but some cases you can do really well the blue can overlap the white really well you can actually learn the real distribution and in fact you can even learn it when it has the strong correlation structure you can do that but this is the model I think with the sigmoid non-linearity in there in the network but when you start doing other kinds of things you get weird blobs like this or you get this one has at an age it's a surface that has a sharp thing like this and then carries on or you have something that looks like this which has a period of very high mass and then a very long tail now if you were to choose a queue as a Gaussian it won't be able to learn this this this this basically it's going to struggle and you can sort of hear it does well because you can do Gaussian ish things but it's cut off on the other side and so real whopper series even in simple cases are complicated and when we have high dimensional data they're even more complicated so then we need to have ways of designing these Q distributions that are very flexible and efficient and that is one of the ongoing areas of research and so you basically have a spectrum of things to choose around this Q you have on one side Q star which is the optimal posterior distribution which is just the result of Bayes rule P of X given Z times P of Z you can never know this because if you knew the truth you wouldn't do any of this so this side you can't get to the exact opposite end is where you choose that everything is independent and what we call the fully factorize this is the least expressive way to design a q function but very popular so you can just do the product over K dimensions of individual univariate gaussians for example right and then in between there's a lot of different things so this is where we want to be able to build these deep rich distributions and so what lives in between are things which are called structured approximations they introduce some kind of dependency structures they can see Zed K is dependent on some subset of all others ads in the model and this is where you can do a lot of things and sometimes you'll hear people say structured mean filled in the data and all the times not so I thought we'd do a very simple example so here's a model which has a Gaussian latent variable said it has a likelihood function which I'm leaving generic but you can assume it's a Gaussian or Bernoulli distribution and then I'm choosing a Q distribution which is a product of univariate gaussians said I given mu I and Sigma I and so what we do is we draw it out a variational lower bound and then we would substitute in here this care because the products over and things actually becomes the sum of Cal's for each of the individual terms then you can write out the KL between two gaussians or the KL between any two exponential family distributions is actually known in closed form you can actually do this as an exercise for yourself to derive the kr between two distribution and you'll see it will have a form like this it will be a squared error reconstruction term and then we'll have some variance correction which is based on the on the log log variance and then you can get the log likelihood that you always expect so if this is a Gaussian you get an l2 error you get the l2 loss here so you can do lots of things to choose the Q because even here you still I chose this Q as this product of univariate gaussians but maybe that's not a good thing to do so you can do lots of things in between you can do mixture models and mixture models is a very popular one or you can just choose to build gaussians with much more richer covariance function there's many papers and building rich covariance models for Gaussian distributions you can build structured mean feel they can build it basically an auto regressive model so all the other models that we learnt about they can be used to design new posterior approximations or you can create other kinds of things these two are relation of Xillia variable models or normalizing flow methods and I have lots of references at the end if for anyone who wants to look at them so the last bit is just look at the optimization of this kind of loss function so there are many different ways of doing the optimization the classical way was to do what is called the variational e/m algorithm and then to do stochastic versions of that where we can subsample and use many batches of data instead then more recently what came was this idea of doubly stochastic variational inference and I'll explain the couples with this idea of amortized inference which is the one that most people use today so in the variational problem and in in an e/m algorithm if you recall what an e/m algorithm is you're going to do an alternating optimization between model parameters theta and variational parameters Phi right so an e/m algorithm when you write it in code always looks as follows you write a for loop for I equals 1 to n then you write a function for the e step and the e step itself has a for loop where you compute you compute the gradient with respect to all the variational parameters Phi say e step is about expectation and the expectation you want is about the Q distribution so these are the distributions are the parameters of the Q distribution and then you come to the M step as the optimization with respect to the model parameters which are Tisa and because this is the bound like nem algorithm every time you do one setting of updating theta and Phi you improve the bound until you reach a point where you can't do that anymore and you inherit this by using variational inference because the variational bound is also a quantity that is convergent this way and the idea of just to know this is that the classical idea of e/m algorithm is that you have a model P and approximate distribution Q you go in and you do the key step the East step which is to evaluate the expectation under that distribution Q and in the classical way you always assume you can compute this integral exactly and analytically and if it's known to you analytically you use that result to compute the gradient so this is what every ml Gotham looks like this is difficult because now we're gonna have to invent thousands of new tricks just to solve this this integral here and by inventing new more and more tricks we get situations that are less and less generic and much more specialized so in some sense that's not the right direction to do we want to see if we can create generic ways of doing that and just to jump to the end we're gonna try and swap these two things using the two tricks that we had earlier so let's talk about amortized inference and just stay at the e/m algorithm a little bit more right so the e/m Elger them again this is the algorithm it has an e step for i equals 1 to n so you go through every data point and for every data point you optimize this variational bound and you solve for every data point and you find variational parameters Phi N and you do this again for every data point and then once you solve n optimizations and you have n sets of parameters then you go to the M step and then you compute this average which is an average over n data point so the problem now is that with this e step what you have to do is you are solving the optimization for every data point afresh you never reuse what you just did for data point n minus 1 and you won't use what you will do for data point n plus 1 so this seems wasteful and some sense you can think of this classical Estep is something that is like memory lists it doesn't use the knowledge of other kinds of Estep computation to inform the estep computation for data point M and so what we want to do is remove that sort of deficiency in some sense and introduce an idea of memory and this is where this idea of introducing what they call an inference network or a recognition model is what we do is now we build some new model we'll call this thank you and it will have a global set of parameters Phi it won't have parameters Phi n for every data point will have one set of parameters Phi that will apply to all the data points right and that's the point of having these inference networks and the parameters of Q are now no longer global per data point parameters that you have to do optimization for there are actually a global set of parameters that are applicable to both training and test time and the reason it's called an amortized inference is that this new set of global parameters is what you use to spread the cost of the inference over all the data points you get to do sometimes what they call sharing statistical strengths where you use all the other data points inference to help inform your own inference and so the joint are and then by having this kind of inference network you no need to do an EML Gotham you don't need to alternate between model parameters and variational parameters because there are only global parameters you can do joint optimization of all of them simultaneously right so the idea of inference networks or anyplace where you see this element of some kind of encoder appearing is that it gives you an efficient mechanism to learn kind of posterior distributions where you have this kind of memory component where you can't share knowledge between different data points so let's put very rational inference and amortize inference together and so we have this approximate posterior distribution Q which we need to design in truth we have a reconstruction term which is going to give us the fidelity of how well we are learning the data we see and we have the penalty term to do Occam's razor now we implement a stochastic encoder decoder system so our model is effectively a decoder it takes latent variable Z through some kind of model and generates data exa it is a generative model and then we have a recognition model or an inference Network which states data X through another set of global parameters and gives us samples from this set Q in fact the two things that this model needs to do it needs to be able to give you samples and you need to tell you what the entropy just what log Q is doesn't need to do anything else so when you code a class for these kind of distributions as long as the distribution can have dot sample and dot entropy or dot log problem that's all you need to basically implement these two things so again as I said the decoder is a likelihood model the inference is now dealt with by this encoder or variational distribution and what this also does when you can see this it transforms an auto encoder which is a deterministic function which is not probabilistic in this way into a generative model because now you can actually sample from it by just sampling from Z and then generating data right and so this specific combination again going back to that principle of machine learning that I asked you to think about we chose a latent variable model ik Zed and you chose a principle of inference which is based on variational inference and you implemented it using amortized inference with the recognition model that thing together is an algorithm and that algorithm is today called a variational auto encoder please don't call it the very short encoder model a little part of me will die so never do that that is wrong BAE is an algorithm because it defines a full set of computation of computational graph for dealing with data learning its posterior distribution and doing its optimization together so never forget what the model is it is a latent variable model what the principle of inference is you use variational inference you can replace that with almost anything else that you like and we'll do that now in the next step and then how you put it together was by using this inference network on amortized inference but we could have easily solve this by variational e/m or Monte Carlo e/m or hybrid Monte Carlo sampling or several other methods so ok we are running out of time so I'm just quickly going to say a little bit about the stochastic gradient estimation again here's that famous problem that came where we had two tricks earlier we need to compute the gradient of an integrand with respect to some function and in the e/m algorithm we had first compute the integral then compute the gradient and what we're going to do now is we're going to swap the gradient with the integral first and the way we can do that swapping of the greater an integral is to exactly use those two tricks that we had you can either compute this gradient by the pathways estimator using a ripper ammeter ization trick or you use the score function estimator by applying the identity and the log derivative tricks right and so you get these two ways of doing estimation both of them are equally valid and what will inform your choice will be again how you design your model f so for example if you were working computer graphics and your model you didn't want to write a model you actually wanted to put a renderer graphics render as the model then you wouldn't be able to differentiate through the renderer not in general though they are differentiable renderers so then the only thing you could do is to do this model but if you were doing a more statistical approach where we were understanding the biology of the genetic tree and we actually built that model then we would know about f we could differentiate and then that would be maybe the better approach to take so those are called doubly stochastic so in the last ten minutes I just want to quickly talk about estimation about comparison and learning in implicit generative model so in implicit generative models you have a simulator from some data points from some random source said through this function f and it can just simulate data X and the tasks that you have to do is compare samples from your data model which I'm going to call Q with the true data distribution which is P star and this is a classical problem in statistic which is called the two sample testing problem you have two sets of samples you need to compare them in some way and we will actually want to do one step more than what statisticians we would do we also want to do learning of our model parameter so we're gonna do need to do a little bit more and so all we need to do is find ways to compare distributions and there are either two things you can do you can either compute P divided by Q and if P divided by Q is one that is the definition of learning because then you've learned the data point or you can say P minus Q and if he minus Q is zero then you've also lunch right so these are the two principles of learning involved here and you can do both of them if we had an hour we could just talk about this one slide as different ways of do a density ratio versus density difference estimation so let's at the high level talk about this estimation by comparison always involves two steps it's exactly like the e/m algorithm before you have a testing step or a comparison step where you're first going to find something some tools some trick that helps you compare one sample of data with another and to say how close it is or how different it is and once you have that thing which tells you how close are different that's exactly like gradient and then you can use that to learn so then you can do the learning step or the adjustment step and so here you have the hypothesis is either that the two distributions are the same or the two are different and you're going to try and find some loss function f as I said you can do this by density difference methods by looking at P minus Q and lots of methods and the maximum mean discrepancy optimal transport moment matching are going to fit into this category I'm not going to talk about that today and then you can either look at P divided by Q which is the density ratio method and we can do this either by class probability estimation because we looked at that as a one specific trick but there are other methods based and Bragman divergences and F divergences that we can solve that instead so this is sort of in general view of that landscape so let's just look at adversarial learning in adversarial learning we're going to look at this ratio of P divided by Q and based on the density ratio trick we know that we can solve ratios like this by building classifiers instead our generative model will be sampled from some base distribution like a Gaussian and generate this to some function f like a conflict to generate samples and then we're going to need to do comparison right and so the comparison is to build this classifier that's what the density ratio trick is so how do you actually compute P of y equals 1 given X you need to build a classifier and that's in the statistical language called building a scoring function so you're going to build a scoring function which is going to tell you what the probability of y equals plus 1 is and the probability of y equals minus 1 is just 1 minus that probability because they must sum to 1 and then now that you have this you can assign a Bernoulli loss you can say I want things I want data that's under queue to be seen as the negative class and data that's frumpy to be seen as the positive class and that's how you'll actually learn this scoring function with that and you can use any sort of scoring functions you don't only need to use the bernoulli you can replace this with the squared loss in which case is called a breyer loss and you can replace it with several other losses their entire papers just on choosing scoring functions and how you can choose the best scoring function depending on the problem you have so this kind of idea has lots of different names and the most generic name it has been given it's called unsupervised as supervised learning and you can see that we wanted to do this unsupervised learning and what we first had to do was build this classifier so that is the supervised part and that's unsupervised supervised learning I mentioned earlier in the approximate Bayesian computation literature they've also had this idea of building a classifier to decide moments or ways of comparing two data points and then learning a Monte Carlo sample that's called classify ABC non-controlled north contrastive estimation is a way of doing non maximum likelihood estimation like all of this in this section is and so that uses the same idea and then adversarial learning in particular in the way it appears in ganz uses also exactly this principle so we have again an alternating optimization between two types of parameters you have model parameters Phi and then parameters of the scoring functions D right and in adversarial networks you will call this model the generator and you will call this scoring function the discriminator because it is a classifier and then you have to just solve the optimization between these two things so then again you have the comparison loss which is solve for the parameters of the discriminator this is the thing that tells you how close or how different these two set of samples are and then you have the generative loss who says well based on the knowledge that I have of D can I use that to give me a gradient and how you actually get this gradient is by using the remote ization trick okay so that brings me to the end the summary of today was to sort of give you some of the tools to manipulate probabilities and then use those tricks and tools to manipulate probabilities to then build all types of generative models that you could imagine right and we looked at different types of generative models which were undirected models fully observed models models with latent variables I asked you always to think about machine learning within this three three prong approach of thinking of models the corresponding learning principles and the joint idea of algorithms and the two examples we used of that we said was bae was one example of a model which was a latent proscribed latent variable model with variational inference which then gave us a VA e algorithm and the other algorithm we learnt about was ganz which use implicit generative model as its model it used this principle of two sample testing as its principle of inference and we put it together by building an algorithm that used a repro motorisation trick to actually do the optimization and then we spoke about lots of other things about stochastic optimization how we can manipulate those integrals to do a lot more scalable inference we spoke about amortized inference and how encoders typically ampere machine learning and then how we can build lots of different complex distributions over data there's lots more to do almost every one of these represents a different topic for research whether it is the last function itself whether it is how you build these Q distributions other ways of computing gradient estimators understanding their variance properties what are other ways of doing non maximum likelihood learning you know all of these represent a place of more research which needs to be done and I hope lots of you all will join us in that effort so thank you for your attention you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------



================================================================================

