Title: Ivermectin and mebendazole, 84% benefit in cancer
Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cM1t5BdptT4

A warm welcome to this talk. Now, today we're going to be looking at a new paper which shows very promising results for Ivermectin and Mebendazole being used together in the treatment of a wide variety of cancers. Now, this is the paper here. Real-world clinical outcomes of Ivermectin and Mebendazole in cancer patients result from a prospective observational cohort. So, in other words, this was a group looking forward people joining the group and then data being collected prospectively as the trial goes along. And it's written as a full paper. Here we have the abstract. It's not yet been subject to full peer review, but I'm bringing it to you because it's really very interesting. And the lead author is Nick Cashler, who is actually a friend of the channel. So, the full paper is there. Now, let me just give you the uh the main points of this and you can decide if you want to watch. So, um that's the reference for the paper. The clinical benefit ratio. Now, the clinical benefit ratio is something used particularly in evaluating cancer treatments. And it means that there's a complete response or there's um um partial response or stability of the disease. It's It means it's a good outcome. Anyway, the good outcomes were 84%. With a combination of Ivermectin and Mebendazole. Mebendazole, of course, is a very similar drug to Fenbendazole. It's the human form, really. Mebendazole. Mebendazole and Ivermectin together giving this good result of 84% in terms of clinical benefit ratio. So, that's what this video is about. Uh 84.4% of patients did well, which is incredible. Uh so, why isn't this being widely taken up? Well, we don't have the large-scale randomized controlled trials because they're largely done by pharmaceutical companies. Now, the paper does mention the fact that overall, it is estimated that annual costs of standard chemotherapies average 100 and 111,000 dollars per year. Guess that's about what 90,000 pounds. 111,000 dollars per year. Now, the fact that the pharmaceutical companies are making so much money out of this may have nothing to do with the fact that they don't conduct the clinical trials into Ivermectin and Mebendazole. Who knows? But they are facts given in the paper anyway. Now, let's look at some of the details now because really is quite an interesting study. So, drug repurposing offers a pathway to identify accessible, this is available to anyone, this is egalitarian, low toxicity, low cost cancer therapies. Now, the paper says that this therapy should cost a thousand two dollars a year as opposed to 111,000 dollars per year for traditional chemotherapy. I'm sure I could do it for a lot less than that, one heck of a lot less than that. These drugs are generic. They're remarkably cheap. Before Romania joined the European Union, I used to buy a lot of Mebendazole and send it to friends and colleagues in Romania for treating worm infections, parasitic infections. And at that time, okay, it's a while back, but I was paying two pounds 30 pence per thousand doses. That's probably the equivalent of six or seven pounds, 10 dollars per thousand doses. So, these drugs are remarkably inexpensive, remarkably cheap. And I've got the potential to, as we'll see, treat these wide variety of cancers. Now, um &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Ivermectin and Mebendazole have demonstrated multiple target anti-cancer activities. They work in many different ways. Um I do see quite a few papers by uh what do you call them? Fact checkers who say cancer is not a parasitic disease. Ivermectin, mebendazole, fenbendazole can't work. Well, this paper is aware of that. We're aware of that. This is they are not working by killing parasites. They have multiple other biochemical modes of action and the details of those are coming. So, we know that they work in a wide variety of ways in the cells and tissues of the body. This paper evaluates real-world patient-reported outcomes, safety, and adherence to a cohort of cancer patients utilizing the combination protocol. And the combination was ivermectin 25 mg, mebendazole 20 uh mebendazole um ivermectin 25 mg, mebendazole 250 mg a day for 90 days. That was this particular protocol. We're not giving medical advice, just reporting what this protocol uh was. Uh the methods, so it's prospective observational cohort study, 197 cancer patients, so it's a reasonable number. They were prescribed ivermectin and mebendazole off-label, so this is not official sort of nice guideline stuff. It's off-label. What you might call compassionate prescribing through telemedicine by registered US providers. Uh participants received compounded oral capsules, so it was all together in one 25 mg of ivermectin, 250 mg of mebendazole. I think that's what I said before, 250 mg of mebendazole. Mebendazole, as we've said, being a very similar preparation to fenbendazole. Data were collected volun- voluntary standardized digital surveys at baseline and approximately 6 months follow-up. So, these patients mostly followed up at the 6-month period. The initial cohort, 197 baseline characteristics including cancer type and disease status were assessed. And there's actually some really quite nice graphics in the in the paper here. Where they show like prostate cancer was the most common then breast cancer then lung cancer then colon cancer liver cancer and then he's all these other cancers as well which in itself is really quite impressive that this combination of mebendazole and ivermectin appears to be effective against a very wide range of cancers. And this means if you think about a third world situation for example where you don't have perhaps availability of specialist oncologists junior doctors and medical assistants and senior nurses could potentially prescribe this for a wide range of cancers because the treatment will be probably as far as we know very similar for a wide range of cancers which is again very egalitarian and the sort of thing we want to promote. So various cancer types a total of 122 patients completed 61.9% response rate. So that's actually not too bad. Mean age 67 about half were male and half were female so pretty well half and half. Cancer types included I've listed them there just for convenience so you can see them in the notes. So um as we've just noticed a wide range of different cancers. Normally of course all these cancers would have as I said dramatically different treatments. Whereas here it was all the same basic adjunct treatment that could could potentially be given. Medium [snorts] duration since initial diagnosis of these patients was 1.2 years. Um 31 37.1% of the time were experienced active disease progression so that was shown on this graphic here. So we see that at baseline we have uh we have uh 37.1% who were actively progressing. [clears throat] That means the disease was metastasizing. Metastasis going to different parts of the body, spreading all over the place to the bones, the lungs, the brain, wherever it metastasized the liver, wherever it was metastasizing to. Uh others were in a more stable a situation at the time. This is when the treatment was uh when the patients first enrolled on the trial. Uh 6-month follow-up uh pretty good. Nearly 87% adhered to the treatment, took the full 90 capsules of ivermectin and mebendazole uh prescription. So um not um not an intensive difficult treatment follow at all by any means. Clinical benefit ratio as we've said. So some had complete response. Uh some had a partial response. And some had uh the disease was stabilizing. And again, the paper's very good. It shows this graphic of that. So we see that uh some patients here the 32.8% had no evidence of disease at the time. 15.6 had known regression and 36.1 were stable. Only 15.6% had progressed. And given that cancer is a progressive disease, I consider that result to be quite remarkable really. Uh normally of course you'd expect 100% to progress because cancer is a is by definition a progressive uh disease. Clinical benefit ratio as we said 84.4%. &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; Right. So uh 48.4 of the cohort strongest possible outcomes regression 15.6%. No current evidence of disease as we said 32.8 disease stability 36.1 only 15.6%. Of the a whole co- of the co- whole cohort were progressing. Which is remarkably good. Remarkably good. 87% nearly stable or improving. Now, this is very interesting. Very interesting indeed. I have talked to different people on this channel. Um Dr. Mack Cannell for example, Gustav Gleser in the UK. And we've talked about the dose which would be ideal for this. Um and basically of course because the trials haven't been done, we don't know. But this study at least relatively small, but what this study showed is no significant dose response association was observed for cancer outcomes. And the chances of that being wrong were only uh 9%. So uh it's 91% likely that that is a correct statement. In other words, um the lower doses, people on the lower doses were doing as well as people on the higher doses. Now, the very best response was from people with two capsules a day, but it wasn't much different. So it looks like the relatively low dose of 25 mg of Ivermectin and 250 mg of Mebendazole is as effective as the higher dose, at least from this study. Now of course people will argue with that. All I'm saying is I I I don't actually know that the complete answer to that of course, and no one does because the full trials haven't been done. But that's what this study showed. It's a direct quote from the study. Very interesting. No significant dose response. So so I mean not normally with a dose response, you know, it's like if you you give a higher dose, and you get more response. So the higher the dose, the greater the response. So for example, if someone's drinking alcohol, the the higher the dose of alcohol, the more they get drunk. That would be normal, but this isn't showing that. Um so the response was pretty well all same in this study regardless of the dose, which is very interesting indeed. And should help to guide future studies. Without any clear dose response gradation for efficiency. Encouraging that the lower doses may be effective. How low can we go? We don't know. It would be interesting to find out, wouldn't it? Side effects pretty mild. There were a few mild side effects reported. Mostly gastrointestinal, but nearly 94% of those affected were able to carry on with their with their treatments. So very well tolerated. Some adjusted the doses a bit, but basically very well tolerated. Concurrent conventional therapies. Now, what other therapies were these getting? Well, of the people taking the Ivermectin and Mebendazole, 27.9% were on chemotherapy as well. Radiotherapy, 21.3% were on radiotherapy as well. And 19.7% had surgery during the course of the 6 months as well. And as well as that, quite a lot lot were on dietary supplements, nearly half. And dietary modification. Just over a third. Right, conclusion. The initial conclusion from this study. In this prospective real-world cohort, the combination of Ivermectin and Mebendazole was associated with high rates of self-reported clinical benefit. With nearly half of participants reporting tumor regression or no current evidence of disease. Across heterogeneous populations of cancer patients. In other words, different people, different sexes, different types of cancer all got a benefit, which is really quite remarkable. Really quite remarkable. These findings provide a compelling clinical signal that there is well-tolerated repurposed agents may offer therapeutic benefit. That's the Ivermectin and Mebendazole may well offer therapeutic benefit. However, as the study honestly says, observational design, reliance on self-reported outcomes, and potential for selection bias, that's the people that go into the study in the first place, and uncontrolled confounding variables, these findings should be interpreted as hypothesis generating. So, there is most definitely a hypothesis here. The hypothesis is that giving uh 25 mg of Ivermectin and 250 mg of Mebendazole uh every day for 90 days has a significant benefit to a whole range of cancers. That is easy to test. Now, of course, we're not expecting this to be done because Mebendazole and Ivermectin are cheap. They're inexpensive. And pharmaceutical companies are currently making uh an average of $111,000 per year per patient. Not that we're saying that's why they don't want to do it. They could be completely unrelated facts, of course. &gt;&gt; [sighs and gasps] &gt;&gt; It just drives you mad, doesn't it? These studies are crying out to be done. The hypothesis is clear from this and multiple studies. We could be curing, potentially, we don't know, but we could be curing your your wife's cancer, your husband's cancer, your mother's cancer, your father's cancer, your son's cancer, your daughter's cancer with Ivermectin and Mebendazole, but the trials, the randomized large-scale double-blind controlled trials are simply not being done. In my view, this is an outrage and an insult to research. But, it's currently our situation, unfortunately. Validation validating of these observations further define optimal dosing strategy. So yeah, we need the trials cuz we're really not sure what the best doses are at the moment. Although we have seen promisingly as we've said that the lower dose patients in this study with the lower dose of ivermectin, the lower doses of mebendazole were doing as well as the patients on higher doses. Now, does this make any sense? Is there Is there a a pharmacodynamic rationale? You know, is there a mechanism by which these drugs work? Yes, absolutely, there is. Very much so, there is. Ivermectin and mebendazole are are antiparasitic agents, but that's probably not how they're working in this case. They but they as well as that as well as So it's this is a and this is a plus demonstrating highly promising anti-cancer activities. Ivermectin, for example, uh shown to exert over 14 distinct anti-cancer mechanisms across 12 cancer types. So 14 clear biochemical mechanisms have been identified via which ivermectin could be killing preventing cancers in 12 different cancer types. This is incredible. Working in 12 different cancer types. How's it doing it? Uh inhibiting cancer cell proliferation, so stopping cancer cells multiplying. Uh reducing the likelihood of metastasis. Angiogenesis, so angio is blood vessel. Genesis is beginning of. So for uh cancer tumor to grow into a large bulky tumor, there needs to be angiogenesis. There needs to be production of new blood vessels. If there wasn't a blood supply to the cancer, it would go black and die. Like like tying an elastic band around your finger, it would it would go black and die and necrose. So it looks like ivermectin is inhibiting the growth of new blood vessels to new tumors. If there's no blood supply to the new tumor, the new tumor can't grow. It's very very simple, very, very obvious. Um and also reducing mitochondrial function in cancer cells, the ability of the cancer cells to produce energy. Has demonstrated excellent safety in cancer patients, including those undergoing chemotherapy. So, in other words, this drug has demonstrated very high levels of Ivermectin has developed high levels of safety. Demonstrate high levels of safety. Use it on its own uh and used with other chemotherapeutic agents. And I myself took 12 mg of Ivermectin a day for 7 weeks with no side effects whatsoever. Um just to try it on myself, really. Um So, but even with people taking chemotherapeutic agents as well, it's not a contraindication. So, if it's potentially beneficial when people are taking chemotherapy, why not give it as well? Why not give it as well? If it's not doing any harm, and there's no harm being indicated by this paper at the moment. Ivermectin and mebendazole selectively target cancer stem cells. So, the these are the stem cells of the the cells that grow into cancer. So, like a stem cell will will divide into two. Uh it will divide into two cells. One cell will remain as a stem cell. Uh while this this other cell here will divide into a population of further cells via simple mitosis. So, you get a population of cells here, carry on dividing, of course. Tumors contain billions of cells. Um So, that carries on onto a population. Meanwhile, this stem cell can sit around, but then at a future date, that can divide again into a further stem cell and into another uh proliferating cell, which again can divide into a population of cells as we've already seen. Um So, Ivermectin and mebendazole selectively target cancer stem cells, which is exactly what we want. If we get rid of the original stem cell, then none of those uh offspring cells, daughter cells, uh can exist. And mebendazole particularly microtubule disruption leading to effective cell cycle arrest. What happens here is um here we have a cell that wants to divide, and the chromosomes uh come into the middle in pairs like this. Uh there's pairs of chromosomes like that in the in the middle of the cell. And um they they they duplicate. They duplicate. And then there's a there's a bit here and a bit here, and then a spindle forms there, connected to the the chromosomes. And it What what these spindles do is they contract, and they pull these chromosomes into one half of the cell. So, those go into that half of the cell. Uh these ones are pulled into this half of the cell here, so they end up over there. So, what you end up with is from having an initial cell, you end up with a cell in the stages of mitosis with all the chromosomes there from duplicated there and all the chromosomes duplicated there. Then all this cell has to do is pinch off into two cells. So, it pinches off into two cells, so you have a situation looks a little bit like a dumbbell for a while like that with the uh chromosomes in each. And then it it splits completely into two cells. But that's dependent on these microtubules um pulling the chromosomes into the two daughter cells. And if those microtubules don't form, that can't hap- happen, so the cell can't divide. Wonderful, cuz we don't want cancer cells to divide. Of course. Um so, microtubule disruption is one way it works. Potential to induce apoptosis. Apoptosis is when a cell just kills itself, cell suicide. Um, and and they do they just pop into essentially nonexistence by releasing digestive enzymes which auto digest the cell. Significant inhibition of tumor growth. Inhibition of angiogenesis again and disruption of glucose intake so the cell can't metabolize. And when used together, &gt;&gt; [snorts] &gt;&gt; um, they target nonoverlapping pathways resulting in synergistic tumor regression. In other words, Ivermectin will target some cancer pathways. Mebendazole, or indeed Febendazole, but Mebendazole in this case, will target other pathways. So between the two of them, they're clobbering a whole range of cancer pathways. Now one on its own might work for some cancers, but because you're attacking so many different carcinogenic mechanisms, the chances that if you give the two together, it's going to kill the particular cancer you're suffering from are greatly increased according to this way of thinking. So, um, nonoverlapping pathways, synergistic tumor regression. Synergistic, of course, means it's more than the sum of its parts. &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; Cancer stem cell reduction and reversal of multiple resistance in multiple in vivo and vitro models. So, if you give just one or two drugs, the cancer cells can become resistant. But if you're attacking the cell via 20 25 different mechanisms, okay, the cell might become resistant to one or two or three or even four of them, but not to all 20 of them. So you're going to kill the cells before they can possibly develop resistance to such a wide variety of biochemical attacks from the Ivermectin and the Mebendazole. That is is thinking there. And it makes perfect pharmacodynamic sense to me at least. And we know they're well bio-distributed. They go over to all the tissues in the body. So, wherever the cancer is, uh they should get there. Uh perhaps uh with the exception of the central nervous system. I'm not sure about that. And uh again, the article, if you want to read it, free PDF to download. It explains here the uh the cancer anti-cancer mechanisms of ivermectin and mebendazole and the way that they attack various tumors using various mechanisms. So, there we are. This research needs to be done to know if this is all correct in the larger scale clinical trial situation. Um it's probably not going to be done, which of course is a complete utter disgrace and a complete tragedy uh to those people suffering cancers. Could be me. Could be you. Could be a family member. Just let them die if they can't pay the $111,000 a year. &gt;&gt; [sighs and gasps] &gt;&gt; You know, what the heck? I don't know. How how how how how how how how how how how do Why aren't governments doing this research? Why aren't independent universities doing this research? Just because there's no money in it. Is that why it's not done? Let me know what you think. Let's close with phenomenal frustration. But at least you watched. So, thank you for that.
