

=== VIDEO: Q9XD8yRPxc8 (https://youtu.be/Q9XD8yRPxc8) ===

Preparing for this talk
has been scarier for me than preparing for LSD therapy. (Laughter) "Psychedelics are to the study of the mind what the microscope is to biology and the telescope is to astronomy." Dr. Stanislav Grof spoke those words. He's one of the leading
psychedelic researchers in the world, and he's also been my mentor. Today, I'd like to share with you
how psychedelics, when used wisely, have the potential to help heal us, help inspire us, and perhaps even to help save us. In the 1950s and 60s, psychedelic research flourished
all over the world and showed great promise
for the fields of psychiatry, psychology and psychotherapy, neuroscience and the study
of mystical experiences. But psychedelics leaked out
of the research settings and began to be used
by the counterculture, and by the anti-Vietnam War movement. And there was unwise use. And so there was a backlash. And in 1970, the US government
criminalized all uses of psychedelics, and they began shutting down
all psychedelic research. And this ban spread all over the world
and lasted for decades. and it was tragic, since psychedelics are really just tools, and whether their outcomes
are beneficial or harmful depends on how they're used. Psychedelic means "mind-manifesting," and it relates to drugs
like LSD, psilocybin, mescaline, iboga and other drugs. When I was 18 years old, I was a college freshman, I was experimenting
with LSD and mescaline, and these experiences
brought me in touch with my emotions. And they helped me have
a spiritual connection that unfortunately,
my bar mitzvah did not produce. (Laughter) When I wanted to tease my parents, I would tell them
that they drove me to psychedelics because my bar mitzvah had failed
to turn me into a man. (Laughter) But most importantly, psychedelics gave me this feeling
of our shared humanity, of our unity with all life. And other people reported
that same thing as well. And I felt that these experiences
had the potential to help be an antidote to tribalism, to fundamentalism,
to genocide and environmental destruction. And so I decided to focus my life on changing the laws and becoming a legal
psychedelic psychotherapist. (Applause) Now, half a century after the ban, we're in the midst of a global renaissance
of psychedelic research. Psychedelic psychotherapy
is showing great promise for the treatment of post-traumatic
stress disorder, or PTSD, depression, social anxiety,
substance abuse and alcoholism and suicide. Psychedelic psychotherapy is an attempt
to go after the root causes of the problems, with just relatively few administrations, as contrasted to most
of the psychiatric drugs used today that are mostly just reducing symptoms and are meant to be taken
on a daily basis. Psychedelics are now also being used
as tools for neuroscience to study brain function and to study the enduring mystery
of human consciousness. And psychedelics and the mystical
experiences they produce are being explored for their connections
between meditation and mindfulness, including a paper just recently published about lifelong zen meditators
taking psilocybin in the midst of a meditation retreat and showing long-term benefits
and brain changes. Now, how do these drugs work? Modern neuroscience research
has demonstrated that psychedelics reduce activity in what's known as the brain's
default mode network. This is where we create our sense of self. It's our equivalent to the ego, and it filters all incoming information according to our personal
needs and priorities. When activity is reduced
in the default mode network, our ego shifts from the foreground
to the background, and we see that it's just part
of a larger field of awareness. It's similar to the shift that Copernicus and Galileo were
able to produce in humanity using the telescope to show that the earth was no
longer the center of the universe, but was actually something
that revolved around the sun, something bigger than itself. For some people, this shift in awareness is the most important and among the most important
experiences of their lives. They feel more connected
to the world bigger than themselves. They feel more altruistic, and they lose some of their fear of death. Not all drugs work this way. MDMA, also known as Ecstasy, or Molly, works fundamentally different. And I'll be able to share with you
the story of Marcela, who suffered from
post-traumatic stress disorder from a violent sexual assault. Marcela and I were introduced in 1984, when MDMA was still legal, but it was beginning also
to leak out of therapeutic circles. Marcela had tried MDMA
in a recreational setting, and during that, her past trauma
flooded her awareness and it intensified her suicidal feelings. During our first conversation, I shared that when MDMA
is taken therapeutically, it can reduce the fear
of difficult emotions, and she could help move forward
past her trauma. I asked her to promise
not to commit suicide if we were to work together. She agreed and made that promise. During her therapeutic sessions, Marcela was able to process
her trauma more fluidly, more easily. And yet, she was able to tell that the rapist had told her
that if she ever shared her story, he would kill her. And she realized that that was
keeping her a prisoner in her own mind. So being able to share the story and experience the feelings
and the thoughts in her mind freed her, and she was able to decide that she wanted
to move forward with her life. And in that moment, I realized that MDMA could be very
effective for treating PTSD. Now, 35 years later,
after Marcela's treatment, she's actually a therapist, training other therapists to help people
overcome PTSD with MDMA. Now, how does MDMA work? How did MDMA help Marcela? People who have PTSD
have brains that are different from those of us who don't have PTSD. They have a hyperactive amygdala,
where we process fear. They have reduced activity
in the prefrontal cortex, where we think logically. And they have reduced activity
in the hippocampus, where we store memories
into long-term storage. MDMA changes the brain
in the opposite way. MDMA reduces activity in the amygdala, increases activity
in the prefrontal cortex and increases connectivity
between the amygdala and the hippocampus to remit traumatic memories
to move into long-term storage. Recently, researchers at Johns Hopkins
published a paper in "Nature," in which they demonstrated
that MDMA releases oxytocin, the hormone of love and nurturing. The same researchers
also did studies in octopuses, who are normally asocial,
unless it's mating season. But lo and behold, you give them MDMA, and they become prosocial. (Laughter) Several months after
Marcela and I worked together, the Drug Enforcement Administration
moved to criminalize Ecstasy, having no knowledge
of its therapeutic use. So I went to Washington, and I went into the headquarters
of the Drug Enforcement Administration, and I filed a lawsuit demanding a hearing, at which psychiatrists
and psychotherapists would be able to present information
about therapeutic use of MDMA to try to keep it legal. And in the middle of the hearing,
the DEA freaked out, declared an emergency and criminalized all uses of MDMA. And so the only way
that I could see to bring it back was through science, through medicine and through the FDA
drug development process. So in 1986, I started MAPS as a nonprofit psychedelic
pharmaceutical company. It took us 30 years, till 2016, to develop the data that we needed
to present to FDA to request permission to move
into the large-scale Phase 3 studies that are required to prove
safety and efficacy before you get approval
for prescription use. Tony was a veteran
in one of our pilot studies. According to the Veterans Administration, there's over a million veterans now
disabled with PTSD. And at least 20 veterans a day
are committing suicide, many of them from PTSD. The treatment that Tony was to receive
was three and a half months long. But during that period of time, he would only get MDMA on three occasions, separated by 12, 90-minute
non-drug psychotherapy sessions, three before the first
MDMA session for preparation and three after each
MDMA session for integration. We call our treatment approach
"inner-directed therapy," in that we support the patient
to experience whatever's emerging within their minds or their bodies. Even with MDMA, this is hard work. And a lot of our subjects have said, "I don't know why they call this Ecstasy." (Laughter) During Tony's first MDMA session, he lay on the couch, he had eyeshades on, he listened to music, and he would speak to the therapists, who were a male-female co-therapy team, whenever he felt that he needed to. After several hours, in a moment of calmness and clarity, Tony shared that he had realized his PTSD was a way
of connecting him to his friends. It was a way of honoring the memory
of his friends who had died. But he was able to shift and see himself
through the eyes of his dead friends. And he realized that they
would not want him to suffer, to squander his life. They would want him to live more fully, which they were unable to do. And so he realized that there was
a new way to honor their memory, which was to live as fully as possible. He also realized that
he was telling himself a story that he was taking opiates for pain. But actually, he realized,
he was taking them for escape. So he decided he didn't need
the opiates anymore, he didn't need the MDMA anymore, and he was dropping out of the study. That was seven years ago. Tony is still free of PTSD, has never returned to opiates and is helping others less fortunate
than himself in Cambodia. (Applause) The data that we presented to FDA from 107 people in our pilot
studies, including Tony, showed that 23 percent of the people
that received therapy without active MDMA no longer had PTSD
at the end of treatment. This is really pretty good
for this patient population. However, when you add MDMA, the results more than double,
to 56 percent no longer having PTSD. (Applause) But most importantly, once people learn that if they don't need
to suppress their trauma, but they can process it, they keep getting better on their own. So at the 12-month follow-up
one year after the last treatment session, two-thirds no longer have PTSD. And of the one-third that do, many have clinically significant
reductions in symptoms. (Applause) On the basis of this data, the FDA has declared MDMA-assisted
psychotherapy for PTSD a breakthrough therapy. FDA has also declared psilocybin
a breakthrough therapy for treatment-resistant depression and just recently approved
esketamine for depression. I'm proud to say that we have now
initiated our Phase 3 studies. And if the results are as we hope, and if they're similar
to the Phase 2 studies, by the end of 2021, FDA will approve
MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD. If approved, the only therapists who will be able
to directly administer it to patients are going to be therapists that
have been through our training program, and they will only be able
to administer MDMA under direct supervision
in clinic settings. We anticipate that over
the next several decades, there will be thousands
of psychedelic clinics established, at which, therapists will be able
to administer MDMA, psilocybin, ketamine
and other psychedelics to potentially millions of patients. These clinics can also evolve
into centers where people can come for psychedelic psychotherapy
for personal growth, for couples therapy or for spiritual, mystical experiences. Humanity now is in a race
between catastrophe and consciousness. The psychedelic renaissance is here
to help consciousness triumph. And now, if you all just
look under your seats ... Just joking! (Laughter) Thank you. (Applause) (Laughter) (Applause) Thank you. (Applause) Corey Hajim: You've got to stay
up here for a minute. Thank you so much, Rick. I guess it's a supportive audience. Rick Doblin: Yes, very. Many of them have also
been to Burning Man. (Laughter) CH: There's some synergy. RD: (Laughs) CH: So, in your talk, you talked
about using these drugs to address some pretty serious traumas. So what about some more common
mental illnesses like anxiety and depression, and is that where microdosing comes in? RD: Well, microdosing
can be helpful for depression, I do know someone that has been using it. But in general, for therapeutic purposes, we prefer macro-dosing
rather than microdosing, in order to really help people
deal with the root causes. Microdosing is more for creativity, for artistic inspiration, for focus ... And it also does have
a mood-elevation lift. But I think for serious illnesses, we'd rather not get people thinking
that they need a daily drug, but do more deeper, intense work. CH: And what about outside
the United States and North America, is this research being done there? RD: Oh yeah, we're globalizing. Our Phase 3 studies
are actually being done in Israel, Canada and the United States. So once we get approval in FDA, it will also become approved
in Israel and in Canada. We're just starting research in Europe. And we're actually going to be training
some therapists from China. CH: That's great. We were going to do an audience vote to see if people felt
like this was a good idea to move forward with this research or not, but I have a feeling I know
the answer to that, so ... Thank you so much, Rick. RD: Thank you. Thank you all. (Applause)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: OL7pZgcIp9A (https://youtu.be/OL7pZgcIp9A) ===

When was that moment that you first realized this could change the course of how we treat mental health? >> I realized that when I was 17 and 18 and took LSD was the code name for MDMA. I started this nonprofit in 1984 before MAPS and it was to gather support to fight the DEA, the drug enforcement administration once they would eventually criminalize MDMA. >> Let's just talk about the term psychedelics. >> Psychedelic means mind manifesting. What comes up? Dreams are psychedelic. We all go into altered state. The laws of physics don't apply in our dreams. In a dream, when it gets scary, you can wake up. But when you've taken a psychedelic, when it gets scary, you got to work through it. >> Rick Doblin is the founder of MAPS, a pioneering nonprofit transforming the future of mental health >> by advancing psychedelic assisted therapy for PTSD and beyond. >> People think about LSD or masculine or psilocybin. We call those the classic psychedelics. And those are the ego dissolving, move you beyond your ego states. >> Why do some people have bad trips? >> When you take psychedelic, your sense of self is being weakened. That can be really scary. People have difficult experiences cuz we are fundamentally overdeveloped intellectually and underdeveloped emotionally and spiritually. In our first study, which was severe PTSD, 67% 2/3 of the people no longer had PTSD at the two-month follow-up. Empathy is one of the most important emotions and that's something that I don't think that we speak about enough. >> Yeah. Well, one of the things about MDMA that you see in working with people with PTSD is they often have empathy for their perpetrators. The difference between when people take MDMA for party or people take it for therapy, there's two main differences. One is that firstly, I want to say thank you to tuning in and listening to the show. It means a huge amount and connecting with all of you is something that I absolutely love as part of this journey of growing the show. One of my biggest goals of 2025 is doubling the reach of this show and I can't do that without your support. So, I would love to ask you a favor if you can press subscribe or follow on whichever platform you listen to. This helps us reach more people. And for me, elevating women in science is so fundamental and ethical and scientific information. So, if you feel the show empowers you and gives you the information that you've been seeking, I would love to ask a favor in return and to hit that subscribe button and help me reach the goal that I've set for the show of 2025. Thank you, Rick. Welcome to Live Well, Be Well. >> Wow. I'm so glad to be here with you. I am so happy to have you um in Vancouver. We're at TED and you know I wish we um could look underneath our our bums right now and maybe look at some psychedelics and go in a psychedelic experience to have this conversation. >> Well, have have you seen that's how I ended my TED talk. >> I know that's why I opened it because somebody said the same thing. One of the speakers today was joking about I now look under your seat. >> Well, it happened at our talk last night when I was hosting the dinner here. And I think you were then you were speaking and somebody made a joke of and if you look underneath your seat we will all now take some some drugs. Um sadly we're not we are completely sober um with some H2O extras. But this is something that I have been so excited to talk to you about. Psychedelics is having I want to say a renaissance but it is in a real moment and I know that you've been through a lot in the last 12 months that I'd also like to kind of uncover. I think there's been a lot of hope for a lot of people that this was going to get passed. >> Yeah. >> And we're not quite there yet and I want to uncover kind of that journey. But I think this is especially I have looked into this a lot in the last 12 months. This has been something that I've really wanted to understand more about because I'm so connected to mental health. I wanted to ask you on your kind of journey from the beginning of this to now. When was that moment that you first kind of realized and had recognition that this could change the course of how we treat mental health? >> Well, I realized that when I was 17 and 18 and took LSD. >> Wow. >> The very first time because I went beyond my sense of self. I was scared of letting go as I described but I could feel intimations of this interconnectedness that was what people have talked about for thousands of years which you can achieve through meditation or fasting doesn't need psychedelics but psychedelics have been used throughout history. So it was this idea that there's a world beyond that I'm part of something much bigger than just birth to death and this isolated individual person that that there's this whole matrix that extends billions of years and and all that and that sense that when I was first doing this this was now again 1971 and I'd just been through people going to the moon and so it was this some of the astronauts were talking about looking back at the earth and how we're all interconnected and so it this sense of the political implications of the mystical experience whether you receive it through psychedelics or other way once you know we're all connected then it's harder to say you're the enemy you're different from me you're somebody I can dehumanize so I I was looking for something because I was scared of I described this fear I was just scared of the Holocaust and scared of blowing up the world with the Russians with the Cuban missile crisis and scared now my own country doing Vietnam and that was one of the last years of the lottery. So it just was that pretty much and and so much of the 60s was hippies um using psychedelics and protesting the Vietnam War. So I had this thought that the these experiences are potentially very healing culturally and that if more people felt that then it would be a different world. Can you describe the interconnectedness that you just mentioned because some people might not be used to that terminology, but it's something that I'm very aligned with that we're all energy. >> Yeah. >> And we are all we're all part of ourselves and one another. And if you look at kind of energy in the universe, okay, we're all atoms, but we I see that we silo ourselves quite quickly, especially our mind to our bodies. >> Yes. Yes. >> So, can you describe what interconnectedness means? What did you feel when you What was it that epiphany that you had? >> Okay, so this is um later, but I had this DMT experience. The first time I ever tried DMT. So it was with Terrence McKenna, Dennis McKenna, Ralph Matner, a bunch of the sort of Andy While a group of us doing DMT um at Esin and Big. And so the first thing I had was this sense that I was I saw like a um a vertical line and then a horizontal line and then it turned red and then it became cubes and then it became like an Mcsher kind of where geometry doesn't seem to make sense anymore and then I was blasted into this other world and then I was feeling like billions of years have gone by to to build up our bodies to build life that that I was part of everything was part of me that that were all Yeah. these waves of energy and and that if it not been for all these billions of years to build up to where we are today and that that our atoms often come from stars that have exploded and and so I just had this sense of this interconnectedness and then I had this shocking thought that if I'm part of everything and everything's part of me then Hitler is a part of me too and it wasn't out there it's in here and that was shattering So interconnectedness doesn't mean that it's all glory and beauty and interconnectedness. We need to own the whole thing and that was really difficult for me. But that that's what it means is that we are part of everything and and so that makes it so it's harder to say somebody else is all evil or you know somebody else is um and that that's what we have a lot now is the projections you know it's out there. But so interconnectedness just means that uh I mean, it's sort of obvious. I mean, we all share. We don't create everything we need to live. We get it from other people. But that when I was 16 years old, I was very scared of the Russians. So, I studied Russian in high school. Also, my relatives had become immigrants leaving Russia in 1880 to America, running away from anti-semitism. And so, my parents sent me to Russia in 1970 after with around 60 other US high school students to study Russian. Wow. >> And I'd been terrified of Russians because we're told they want to kill us, blow us up. And so where we were was this outside of Lengrad, St. Petersburg, and um there was this woman my age, young girl, you know, that was working at this hotel. And we went for a walk on the beach. And I was like, you don't want to kill me. I don't want to kill you. Wh what what is going on here? And that was a big wakeup like that that we are essentially the same. We have different political systems and we have different governments that can be. But that that was also a big wake up that this this sort of demonization and fear of the Russians to see that um Yeah. We we we were similar very very similar. >> Yeah. And the fear was driving you and the fear was blocking which is really interesting. >> Yeah. And it's also the fact that what we see going on in America is really frightening. But it's also that people through fear and through coercion end up often doing terrible things. It's only the Germans could do the Holocaust. The Holocaust could happen in America. And you and you see how people are buckled down in fear. And and then you've got this external en enemy right now. It's immigrants and undocumented immigrants. So I feel like we all have this capacity for love. We all have this capacity for evil. We all have this capacity for good. So that's that's what interconnectedness means to me that we're all in it together. But that we need to choose how we act that that the potentials are all there but what we choose to do. >> I think that's the biggest thing the action and the step forward that we're taking. I want to talk about all the incredible work that you've done with MAPS. But before we even get to that, I think you've just mentioned and you mentioned in our, you know, our pre-in that comes out the day before on our substhat, the compassionate cure, you mentioned about masculine and trying masculine when you were 17 at your at your university. Um, you then just mentioned LSD. >> Um, I know a lot of your work primarily focuses on MDMA. Let's just talk about the term psychedelics. Yes. >> And for anyone who's listening and you also mentioned DMT. >> Let's talk about some of these components like what sits under the term of psychedelics. >> Okay. So my main work has been trying to sort of mainstream psychedelics. And so one of the ways that it's been helpful to do that is to expand the definition of what is a psychedelic. So Stan Grath who's my mentor and who's one of the leading LSD researchers in the world the founder of transpersonal psychology the co-founder which is also about our interconnectedness there's this once LSD was criminalized and many people who were involved in psychedelics went into meditation he developed hyper hyperventilation he calls it holotropic breath work so that you can have a psychedelic experience without a drug just by breathing. >> I can tell you that is true. >> Okay. >> I've done a lot of holotropic breath work. >> Okay. Yeah. And dreams are psychedelic. >> Interesting. >> Yeah. Because we all go into altered state at night and we operate in different ways. The laws of physics don't apply in our dreams in different ways. But dreams are this. So psychedelic means mind manifesting. What comes up? So fasting can be psychedelic. Even if you know this, some of the Native Americans use pain through the the sundances where they put little hooks barbs in in their muscles and they dance until the barbs pull out. Yeah. >> So, people have used all sorts of things. So, I want to move psychedelic away from just drugs >> to all the any all these tools, experiences that are mind manifesting. So, and when you say dreams, then everybody feels like, oh, maybe psychedelics aren't so scary because I have this >> lucid dreams. >> Lucid dreams are just any dreams. Yeah. The the difference, I would say, is that in a dream when it gets scary, you can wake up. But when you've taken a psychedelic, when it gets scary, you got to work through it. >> You got to do the work. >> You got to do the work. Yeah. >> Okay. So, that's really important. Other people have said MDMA is not a psychedelic. Well, that was also a distinguishing like question I wanted to have to you because I naturally wouldn't have said that MDMA was psychedelic, but you would. >> Well, I would and I think that it's mind manifesting. So, the question is people think about LSD or masculine or psilocybin as the classic. So, we call those the classic psychedelics and those are the ego dissolving move you to this sort of beyond your ego states. And so I think ketamine can be a psychedelic, MDMA. So it's again a way to say there's a range of different things that so it's it's very true that MDMMA is different than the classic psychedelics. But I think broadening the term is a way to help people grapple with it and and accept it. >> And your work is found well first of all congratulations. It's been 39 years. >> Yeah. Yesterday was the anniversary. Yeah. >> Since you created maps. Yeah. >> Tell me the reason behind maps or because well don't tell I actually know the reasons but tell our listeners the reasons behind you creating maps 39 years ago. >> Yeah. Well, I was from the time that I was really 18 after I had all this trouble letting go. I went to the guidance counselor at school and I said, "Help me with my tripping." And he gave me a book to read. And it was Realms of the Human Unconscious: Observations from LSD Research by Stan Grath. And what was amazing was that this book really helped me decide to focus my life on psychedelics because what it was about was also the research when I read it, the the research was being shut down. So this was now 1972. The backlash had already happened and research was shut down all over the world. But what Stan was talking about was a scientific lens. So I didn't really trust religion. Religion is so mythology and and things that you're sort of asked to believe by faith or whatever that a lot of it doesn't make sense. So but I trusted the science lens and it was he talked about three basic areas of the of the mind. The first is biographical. He called it Freudian just to say it's like what is it that happens to our life and how does it impact it? Then the second he called auto rank was the the therapist was the birth drama and that we all go through this process where when you're getting born there's moments where you might think you're dying scary it's there's no exit there. So there's this whole section on birth trauma that sometimes you can get in touch with and then beyond that is the yungian sort of transpersonal states and that's where there was this idea of this interconnectedness and I but within all of that was the the reality check of therapy. It was not about all these theories and trying to prove the way it was. It was trying to say how do you use these experiences and use this understanding of the mind to actually help people so that the therapy you could have endless discussions about different spiritual realms or all this but what's it for unless it helps people leave deeper lives. So I really I asked my guidance counselor if if I could contact Stan to talk to him about how to become a psychedelic therapist. And the book was published in 1975. My guidance counselor had a manuscript copy directly from Stan. And so I wrote a letter to Stan. So he's MDPhD. He's just leaving John's Hopkins. I'm a super confused 18-year-old and I'm giving asking him for advice on becoming a psychedelic therapist one day. And and he wrote me back and and he said, "It's important what you're trying to do. I'm giving a workshop this summer. You can come and see it." And so I I met him in 1972 for this workshop. So it was then that I decided to focus my life on psychedelics. Okay. But I knew I wasn't ready. It took me like 10 years to get grounded. I I had the delusion that I think some people have that the more drugs you take, the faster you evolve. >> Iron is one of the most common deficiencies that I see in clinic, especially in women. And it's not just about feeling tired. Low iron can impact your energy, your focus, your mood, and even your immune system. It's something we really need to be aware of because if left untreated, iron deficiency can become very serious. Now, UK data shows that around 20 to 35% of women aged 18 to 50 do not meet the recommended dietary guidelines for iron intake. And if you're pregnant, menrating, or following a vegetarian or vegan diet, your needs are even higher. and therefore you're more at risk. So that's why I often recommend Spartone. Now this is a naturally sourced iron rich water that comes from the Welsh hills. It contains ferrris iron, the most absorbable form with studies showing up to 40% absorption. So your body can actually use what it takes in. Now it's also incredibly gentle. It's one natural ingredient. There's no harsh tablets and there's no digestive issues. I use it myself and it is my go-to in clinic. You can pick up Sparone at Boots and if you've been feeling low in energy, it's absolutely worth checking in on your Ryan with your doctor or GP. >> Absolutely. And it's just taking the drugs that gives you the answer. And it's not that >> bad at all. I completely underestimated the integration process. So, I loaded myself. >> I'm so happy you said that. >> Yeah. >> Because I think people miss that part out. >> Oh, completely. because that's become an Iawaska trait now where a lot of people are doing Iawaska but the integration part is left out from a lot of the kind of coming back to daily life. >> Yeah. Well, particularly you go to Brazil or Peru to do it and then you come back and Yeah. So I I realized that I was not where I wanted to be. I needed to do this integration process. So then I spent 10 years really getting grounded and building things. I dropped out of college. I was getting ready to focus directly on psychedelics. I was trying to get mature enough and comfortable enough in my trips to do that. It took me 10 years and then I started college again in 1982 and I went my first semester I went to spend a month at Elin in Big Sur California with Stan and Christina Grath. It was a workshop called the mystical quest and it was really delightful and this woman Debbie Harlo came by and said there's a new drug. It's called Adam. It's being used as this underground therapy. It's not illegal, but it's also starting to become a party drug under the name ecstasy. And she said how it makes you feel love. It makes you feel connected. It makes you a better listener. And I thought, I am in love and I'm a good listener. And and then I saw a group of people doing MDMA in a circle and um they were talking to each other and I was like, you take 250 micrograms of LSD, you can't talk for a couple hours, you know? It's like, so I I I love to say that I was um stupid enough to underestimate it, but smart enough to buy some and I I took it home and I did it with my girlfriend. And that was profound. It was way more profound than I realized. And we were able to talk about things in a way that I felt I was a better human. I was less defensive, more we were able to navigate difficult emotions. It was just so I felt like MDMMA is more gentle but super profound and I thought it would be the tool that would really go through society more likely first than LSD or psilocybin or anything like that. And I felt like I woke up to LSD after the backlash. Now I'm waking up to MDMA before the backlash. And I thought, okay, now I can get politically involved. And there will inevitably be this backlash on MDMA because now it is being a party drug. Adam was the name, the code name for MDMA. And so I started this nonprofit in 1984 before MAPS. And it was to gather support to fight the DEA, the Drug Enforcement Administration once they would eventually criminalize move to criminalize MDMA. So the way the world worked at the time is you you had to put in the federal register the DEA would would put that they their intention to criminalize something and there would be like a month public comment period with the psychedelic community. We had um done some underground studies that that were safety studies and and so I also worked with monks and rabbis and various people who did MDMMA to meditate in monasteries. And so we we had this really sophisticated media campaign. So we had this rabbi compare MDMA to the Sabbath. We had the monk say, "Brother David Stein to Ross, a monk spends his whole life trying to get this enlightened attitude that you can get from MDMA." He was using it in the monastery to meditate. And so we were winning this case and we were winning in the court of public opinion and winning in the courts. And the judge said in the end MDMMA should be available as a medicine, which is what we were trying to do. But the the administrator of the DEA rejected that. We sued twice in the appeals courts and won both times. But then on the third time, we finally lost. The DEA lawyers figured out how to keep MDMA away from being a legal medicine. That's where I realized I had to start MAPS. That we couldn't use the legal system. We had to go through the FDA. that would be the only way I thought to bring it back. So that's where I started MAPS as basically a nonprofit psychedelic pharmaceutical company and I didn't know that it would ever succeed but I felt that that was the the real doorway and basically the only doorway to people at that time were told that if you take MDMA it's going to damage your brain and you're going to have neurotoxicity and you're going to have all these functional consequences and so there's so much fear. So scientific research can generate data that can be used to sort of evaluate all these exaggerated drug war propaganda. So I started maps because I felt like it was through science and basically it's to go where the suffering is that people will listen when they're suffering. Other times they might not listen. So that if we can go to try and make MDMA into a medicine to cure certain kinds of suffering and then the other big issue was well it was a strategic sense of all the psychedelics which would I pick it was MDMA and then what should it be for and at the time we needed sympathetic patients. So the main um there was a lot of people from Vietnam who had PTSD. This is now quite a while 86 now. But there were still a lot of people from Vietnam that had PTSD that had not been treated. So we needed sympathetic patients. We needed a disease that was potentially causing suicide that would be very expensive that would lead as you were saying with distress to lead to all sorts of physical illnesses that was expensive. And I had worked with a woman in 1984 who had PTSD and saw it helped. So MDMA for PTSD became the vehicle to go through the FDA. I think that's something where I've become really aware of that there is no treatment legally. I'll put that in. Um for PTSD and I think people now still go to the doctors with PTSD and they're prescribed SSRI. >> Yeah. >> Which doesn't work. >> Yeah. That there was an incredible image of this was a image of a soldier who was like waiting through a river and carrying his gun so it wouldn't get wet. But the river was filled with pills. He was waiting through SSRIs because that's all the VA was giving and it wasn't really helping. >> No. >> Yeah. >> How does MDMA work with the brain and PTSD? >> Ah, okay. This is an easy one. All right. So, the the first step is what does how does PTSD change your brain? So, PTSD is this post-traumatic stress disorder. People are fearful very much of whatever happened before is not really in the past. It's going to happen again. And so your amygdala, the part of your brain that is more processing fear, is hyperactive. There's more activity in the in the amydala for people that have PTSD than than average normal people. The other thing about PTSD is that it's hard to separate out what's real threat, what's a not. If you you know people are always triggered by different things. So there's less activity in the prefrontal cortex where we think logically. So you're sort of shortcircuited by your emotions. So you see somebody that looks like somebody that assaulted you and now you feel like you're about to be assaulted again. If you had a moment to think about it, it's a whole different person. It's a whole different context. It's not that. Um and then these traumatic memories are never really put into the past. And so the hippocampus, which is the part of our brain that stores memories into long-term storage, there's lower activity in the hippocampus and less connectivity between the amydala and the hippocampus when you have PTSD. Right? So that's kind of how your brain changes and you've got these real circuits that are activating all the time. So MDMA works great for PTSD but we found later that or not we other people found we felt that if we focus on the healing other people will do the neuroscience. So what we know is that MDMA reduces activity in the amydala so that when you are um remembering a traumatic memory it's not as fearful. MDMA increases activity in the prefrontal cortex. So you're able to sort of think logically more so and then MDMA increases connectivity between the hippocampus and the amydala so that you're able to process memories and put them into long-term storage. And then the other big part of what it does is oxytocin. So the hormone of love and connection of self-compassion of self love. >> Yeah. My favorite one. >> Yeah. So MDMMA releases oxytocin. And there's a woman Gul Dolan a neuroscientist who has done studies that show that uh in mice that the oxytocin is released by MDMA and that's what promotes neuroplasticity. >> And that's what we really need with PTSD is that we need to create more of these neural highways and kind of shunt them off from the trauma loop and create new neural highways. >> Yeah. >> So we're having new processing methods, right? >> Yeah. Yeah. you definitely can uh have one session where you rewire your brain and then if you do the therapy. Now I I should add though that >> for example this woman that I worked with in in 1984 who had PTSD MDMA by reducing um this u fear response to traumatic memories can be destabilizing as well as healing. So she initially did it with a friend of hers and memories of past sexual abuse came up and it so destabilized her. She'd previously attempted suicide. She'd been medicated. She'd been hospitalized from this trauma. And under MDMA, even in a safe place relatively, with a lover, um, these memories came up and she felt that they were overwhelming. So, she checked herself into a hospital not to kill herself. And while she was there, they stabilized her. They gave her the same SSRI stuff that she'd had before, whatever medicines. She didn't think it would work. So, she was more suicidal when she got out. So I I I don't want people to think you take MDMMA and now all of your problems you can deal with. If you're not in a safe therapeutic setting, you you can trigger traumatic memories and then they can be overwhelming. So it's the context more than the drug that is what produces the healing. I've watched the science of adaptogens grow personally over the last few years and I've become more curious in their role in nervous system support, focus, and resilience because adaptogens basically buffer the cortisol that gives us that stress and anxiety. But here's the thing, quality is everything. Most adaptogens on the market don't actually contain enough of the active compounds that you see in clinical studies to make a difference. That's why I've partnered with London Neutropics. These guys only use clinical studied standardized extracts. This is really really important to get the benefits that you're seeing in clinical research. And they work with heater, one of the best places in Spain. They have high bioavailability. They use incredible ingredients like KSM66 ashwagandha and radola life. And these are the active ingredients that you need to see the difference. They have lots of different blends. Flow gets me into deep focus with lion's mane. Zen helps support my calm and steady my clarity with ashwagandha. And mojo gives a clean lift, no crash. And mush love made with fantastic fungi with three Fast terara mushrooms to elevate your day. Enjoy 20% off and use code live well be well. They come in these fantastic little sachets and they are great for traveling too. So what is the context? Because I remember watching in your TED talk there was different phases and you've also spoken about the integration which for you know you had to ground yourself in for 10 years. Yeah. >> And so I think so many times when people talk about psychedelics, whether it's on a scientific podcast or more of a podcast or a spiritual podcast, we'll talk about the science of the brain or we'll talk about just the experience. But I think we kind of forget that middle ground as the integration. So how does treating somebody with PTSD or potentially other mental health conditions work in an integration process? Like when do you take the drug? What's kind of the in between okay time? Do you then retake it again? >> Yes. Okay. So, our our model that was used in phase three is three and a half months of treatment and during which you only get MDMA three times, one month apart and there's 12 90minute non-drug psychotherapy sessions. Three for preparation and three for integration after each MDMA session. So the the research into psychotherapy outcome research has shown that the most important factor is not the school of therapy whether it's prolonged exposure, cognitive processing therapy, gestalt therapy, behavioral therapy, whatever it happens to be the therapeutic alliance is the most important factor. And so what the therapeutic alliance means is it's this sense of of safety that you and the therapist are aligned to to help you get better and you can trust them and you can feel safe. That's the key factor in therapy. So what we do is we have three of these 90-minute preparation sessions to build the therapeutic alliance. And so the the patient tells their stories, the therapist tries to teach teach them about what MDMA does and but also builds a sense that we're aligned here and ideally you have a therapist that can go to the depth of the pain that you're experiencing without being triggered themselves. So that they get so that that's a big issue for therapists that that they can be exposed to so much pain that that if they haven't worked on that themselves they can get triggered and then they're not thinking about the patient then they're thinking about themselves. All right. So the first part is this preparation session where you build the therapeutic alliance. Then we've structured it. We were funded by donations in the beginning and so our goal was to maximize therapeutic outcomes and people often who are traumatized have had prior people who develop PTSD often have had multiple traumas in their lives often going to childhood not always you can just be great childhood and then just be traumatized by something that happens but we've created a system where we we mostly work with a male female team of two therapists for one person. So, we're not trying to do what's the least expensive way we can get just good enough results to get it approved. We had to overcome a whole social stigma and the whole demonization of psychedelics. So, we have two therapists often because people will have childhood trauma and you want um a well functioning male female team. And of course we'll have we've had studies that are two women, two men, people can be trans, people can be gay does, you know, but it's this idea that you you've got often this support um that people often didn't have when they were in childhood that can be really helpful. So we have two two therapists and then we've made it so it's an 8 hour session. So people are used to thinking, oh, I go to therapists for 1 hour once a week or something like that. >> When they're doing the trip, >> when they're doing the trip, >> how much are you giving them? What's the dosage? >> Well, we have learned over time, we spent um 16 years from 2000 to 2016 in what's called phase 2 studies trying to figure out what's the right doses. There was enormous known from the underground from the middle 70s to the 80s. But the first MDMA experience is 80 milligrams and then to keep it longer after 2 hours we give half the initial amount and that makes it into an 8-hour experience. Our normal dose that the was 120 milligrams 125 milligrams followed by half of that. But we discovered in one of our studies that really surprised us that the group that got 75 milligrams did really really well. So this is sort of their introduction is this 80 milligrams followed by 40 the first session and that's what it is for everybody. The second session and the third session, they negotiate between the therapists and the patients and they talk about do you want to go higher to 120 milligs followed by 60 2 hours later and over 90% go up there and over 90% stay at that level. But if um if 75 or you know 80 millig seems enough for people, they can keep that dose in the second and third sessions as well. And what happens after? Cuz I'm thinking you're getting a huge amount of a chemical release into your brain, right? And everyone's going to be thinking, "Wow, is that going to be quite a heavy comedown?" >> Well, people have often heard a lot about how people are depressed the day after MDMA and there's this suicide Tuesdays. People talk about that kind of stuff, but we do not see that. We don't see that more in the MDMA group than in the control group. >> Interesting. Part of it is because we start the MDMA at 10:00 in the morning. The experience has pretty much subsided by around 6:00 p.m. We often, but not always, have people spend the night in the treatment center. So, we want them to still think about what's happened, not get distracted by going home, going out in traffic and things like that. Then there's integrative therapy the the next day. So, and then there's weekly integrative sessions before the next the second session. So it's uh this after the therapy becomes the integration process and that's where you're trying to reinforce this neuroplasticity, this ability to process information in a different way. You're now more open to that for a certain period of time after the MDMA. So that's where the the difference between when people take MDMA for party or people take it for therapy, there's two main differences. One is that when they take it for a party, they're just looking for the short-term effect. They're not looking to learn from it in a sense. They're just looking for fun. And the second part is when you take it for a party, you're looking for good experiences. You're not looking for whatever happens. And when you take it for therapy, whatever emerges, frightening, pleasurable, and often it alternates between that in the 8 hours. So, it's this constant freedom of the patient to go our our essence of our um therapeutic method is that we help people to heal themselves. They're doing the hard work. So the power dynamics are that we don't call ourselves guides because we don't know where people need to go. They know their unconscious knows. They don't even know. Sometimes their unconscious knows or their body knows or they remember things. We call it inner healing intelligence. There's we know our body does that heals itself when it's wounded and and the thought is that whatever is emerging there's a wisdom to it and we need to open up to it. And so then then you do the integration process which is you you talk about what you learned. You try to put it into practice and then a month later another MDMMA experience. And what we've seen is that many people go deeper the second experience than the first. >> I imagine because they feel safe. They kind of know what's going to happen, right? >> Yes. Exactly. >> They're predicting that it's all going to be okay. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And they know that they can maneuver with it. And they also know that if they get into really profound experiences, they have the time with an eight hour session. You you have the time to say, "I'm not ready for this." and then it comes back an hour later or so. And often the the third session, many people are are pretty much healed, you could say, after two sessions, but there's a the people that have more attachment problems, you know, they didn't have a real good childhood. Often they need three sessions. Some people will occasionally need more, but in our protocol, everybody had to get the same thing. So, it's three sessions. So having the third session gives people confidence that in the second session they can go really really deep and if they haven't finished everything then they'll have another opportunity to go deep again. So having the second sess having the third session makes the second session even more valuable and yeah so that that's the basic >> and what's the success rate is it around 80% that I saw of people that kind of go into these with PTSD. >> Yeah. Well, there's two ways. Well, there's multiple ways to think about what's what's success. So, we work with what's called the CAPS, the clinician administered PTSD scale. So, that's the gold standard measure required by the FDA, required by MH and EMA, the European Medicine's Agency. And so, in our first study, which was severe PTSD, 67%, twothirds of the people no longer had PTSD at the two-month follow-up. So, we didn't want to do a follow-up a week or two after. People would say, "Oh, it's a psychedelic afterlow, whatever." So, 67% no longer had PTSD, but another 21% had what's called clinically significant reductions of PTSD symptoms. So, they're responders. They still have PTSD, but they've had enough reduction in symptoms that their life has changed in some ways. >> That's transformative for them. >> Yeah. So, it's 88% in that sense, 12% non-responders. The second phase three study that we did, we moved it from severe PTSD to moderate to severe PTSD. And in that 3/4 were severe PTSD, but we had 72% no longer had PTSD and around 15% also had clinically significant reductions. But in that study 46 Okay, so in the first study where we had 67% 32% no longer had PTSD from the therapy without MDMA at all in the control group. >> Wow. >> So it's a >> that surprises me because I feel like people with PTSD >> don't get on with therapy as well because it kind of it it kind of cements the the trauma. >> Yes. Well, well, the prolonged exposure and cognitive processing therapy are the two main treatments, non-drug therapies for PTSD. And they have roughly 50% dropout rates because it's too difficult to confront your trauma. They they force you to confront you've got this hour meeting. Can you confront your trauma? So, when you have the time to come at it when you are ready for it and often people go to positive experiences to build strength, then they go to the the difficult ones. So, we get really good results in that first study with the therapy without MDMA. That's as good as these other therapies with a lower dropout rate. But then when we did moderate to severe PTSD, we had 46% no longer had PTSD in the group that got no MDMA at all. >> And most of them could tell and that they had the placebo. And so people have said one of the criticisms has been that your therapists believe it works, therefore they're biased. You know, you've trained your therapist with them having their own MDMA experience for many of them. And so when people say, "Oh, your results are because you've got all these biased therapists." We have independent raiders who don't know which group people are in. But the other thing is to look at the control group. The people that got the control were in the control group did great, better than any other therapy that's used for PTSD and a lower dropout rate. And that demonstrates that the therapists were not biased in the way that they're not trying hard with the people that got no MDMA as compared to the people that got MDMA. So I I think this this idea of how do you empower the patient to think they are healing themselves and they can come at this trauma on their own timetable. And so I should say that during this 8 hours people are listening to music they're I often they have eyes shades they're going inward and around half the time they're with music and eye shades but the other half of the time they're talking to the therapists. So substantial amount of the time they're on their own doing their own work and it's this metaphorical poetic almost imagery that they're having. People tell themselves stories. One of the veterans came back and he was filled with rage and he would throw things at his wife. He'd never heard her but but he his image was that he had this his warrior self that he could no longer trust because what it had done in Iraq. He had it wrapped uh in a cage inside himself. this gorilla was in a cage. So his whole imagery was this inside this gorilla wrapped in a cage and it had reached out through the bars and stabbed him in the side with a knife. But under MDMA, he was able to say, "This is a part of me. I'm making it worse by locking him up." So he was able to pull the knife out and unlock the cage and embrace this part of himself that in some ways had kept him alive. So during the quiet periods, people are doing an incredible amount of work. I mean the MJMA just opens up your inner focus and the emotions are flowing and we tell each other, we tell ourselves these different stories often in images and metaphors. So there's a lot going on when the therapists are doing nothing, but they're not doing nothing. They're providing safe, supportive context and they're there sometimes they'll hold the hand or something that they're there to support the the person, but we basically are saying to people it's you set the schedule, you need to do the hard work, we're here to help you, but you're the one that's healing yourself. And that's I think was what empowers cuz people will still be traumatized. I mean, you can be traumatized by just thinking about the environment. What are we doing with global warming? What are we doing? We we you know, what are you doing with all these refugees that's going to happen? And so people will continue to be traumatized in different ways. So they need to learn their own skills how to do it. And our goal was never to be the pharma company that gives you drugs that reduce the symptoms, but that you need to keep taking every day for the rest of your life as a way to make money for the pharma company. The goal was to go deep to the root cause and make it so people don't need the MDMA anymore. and they've learned these skills to do on their own how to continue to process trauma. >> I think the brain is one of the most fascinating organs that we have. >> And it's interesting that we have mental health on this like broad spectrum and the only thing that we have to support it is either kind of talking therapy or SSRI. There's no other component really to support mental health that we can kind of >> one can go to to say I'm struggling and I need some help. They're the kind of two roots that most people have right on offer to them. >> Yeah. And I would say that they do help some people. >> They do. But it's interesting that when we look at the body, we have lots of different medicines for lots of different types of diseases. But we mental health is so broad yet we've kind of we've got two options. And these options can help a certain majority of people, but they don't help everyone. >> Yeah. And even the people that they do help, they don't always help them as deep as they could be helped. A lot of them, as I said, just controlling symptoms. >> Yeah. I know that the last kind of 12 months has been quite disheartening. >> Yeah. >> For you with everything with hoping to get this over the line >> and get this legalized and it hasn't. >> Do you think in the next kind of 5 years that this will become legalized? Do you think this will become a an actual treatment for people suffering? >> I'm 100% sure. Yeah. I mean, you can never be 100% sure of anything, but I think it'll be less than 5 years. >> Do you? >> Yeah. I I think the the big issue right now is that in my diagnosis of what went wrong. So, August of last year is where the FDA decided not to approve MDMA as a therapy for PTSD. There was all these critics that were questioning our data, whether our data was reliable, whether people were biased. As I said, um, and the pharma, the people that were running the pharma company, there was more a separation from MAPS and the pharma company. And they approached us in a traditional pharma way where they were um not really wanting to address critics. They wanted to impose a quiet period. And so when you do something innovative, you need to be proactive about communicating what you're doing. So I felt that the FDA advisory committee meetings, the FDA rejection that they were not so much based on the data but on fears, people's fears and people's concerns that the pharma company didn't directly address head-on. All right. So now what's going to be happening is that there will either be another phase 3 study required by FDA or they will say that we're looking at all your data and we've looked at all these accusations and now we hopefully will say that they didn't happen in the way that we've feared about. So it's potentially possible that within 6 months or so FDA could could say it's approved and now we want more data on a what's called phase 4 afterwards. or they could say we want >> another phase three >> another phase three >> but things are moving forward in Australia in Israel in Canada with the special there there so there's more and more and more stories of healing that are coming out all over the world and the dangers are not what can be really addressed and so I think it's um a sure thing that it will be approved you know even uh last night I met somebody here at dead that's doing MDMMA but a different ratio of the isomers So there's a new so what I should say is molecules it's like our our body is right we we're symmetrical we have right hands and left hands so molecules when they crystallize half of them are right hand they're mirror images of each other but they go to slightly different places in the brain and have different effects so the MDMA that we've been studying is called recemic it's where it's the this equal parts of the right hand and left hand but this com new company is now separating the isomers and using higher ratio of one than the other. And so they're trying to make this new thing into a medicine. There's a company called Tacttogen, which is looking for MDMA like drugs that are a little bit milder or different ways that they could make into medicines. There's a company called Transcend that's making methylone, which is somewhat similar. I don't think it's as deep as MDMA, but it's somewhat similar. So the the psychedelic renaissance has over the last four years, five years, $4 billion plus has gone into psychedelic pharma companies. >> Wow. >> And I think the suffering is only going to increase. And one of the things that makes me say yes that it will become a medicine is that because of the work with veterans, we've built bipartisan support. So, it's one of the few things that's outside of the culture wars. And I think part of it, how should I say, this is where I my I was too optimistic about this feelings of interconnectedness and what psychedelics will will do. But there's a fair amount of people that are have been healed by psychedelics that are still Republicans, you know. So it doesn't I think the image people had from the 60s psychedelics makes you a hippie makes you an anti-war protester but we see that that's it's all about the context that you take it in. So we do have bipartisan support. We have the Department of Defense Congress just gave the Department of Defense $10 million to do MDMMA therapy with active duty soldiers, not just veterans. >> Wow. >> So these studies are starting pretty soon. >> Happening right now. >> Happening right now. Is there any disadvantages to this? >> Disadvantages to MDMA? >> Is there any? >> Um, well, there's risks. I mean, every drug has risks. So, I I would say well, MDMA um without proper support, traumatic memories can come up and if you're not supported to deal with it, you could be worse off. And that's what what happens sometimes in non-medical settings. But even in medical settings, you need somewhat skilled therapists to help people through difficult moments because they're trying to address the most difficult things of their lives. MDMA does not cause holes in the brain. It does not. You may remember Leia Betts. So this was a woman, this was the big poster child of a woman that died from ecstasy. But it turned out that she didn't really die from the ecstasy. She was on ecstasy, but she drank too much water and she died from what's called hyponitriia, which means you you you dilute your blood so much. So, that's a concern, but it doesn't happen in therapy settings. Um, people often drink stuff with electrolytes. I think the harm reduction message that people has got is drink a lot of water to cool down, and it's better to drink something with electrolytes. People can overheat and die. So, we've had situations in raves where people will dance all night. They won't drink a lot of fluids and you get hypothermia and you can die from that. That's never happened in research either. MDMA increases your heartbeat so that you can um if somebody has a compromised heart that could be a problem if they can't handle increased blood pressure. Um, people might talk about the addiction risk, but there's something about MDMA that is more satisfying than cocaine in the sense that with cocaine, a lot of times you have an experience, but you keep sort of wanting more. But with MDMA, there's something that's so deep, it's so satisfying in a way. You don't want to do it again. At least not right away. You've got a process. So much richness has happened, so much depth that you want to work with it. This is the integration process. So there are some people that will do MDMA very frequently for sometimes years at a time very rare but that can happen and then if they some of them will get sort of burnt out where it you know and then they need to stop doing it for a while so there's low potential for addiction. So when you talk about David Nut and his list of all the different drugs and the dangers you know ecstasy is pretty low on that. That's why it came up because I think I I I couldn't not talk I couldn't just sit here and talk about the the benefits, right? We've got to kind of weigh both sides. And I think >> speaking to Professor David now 4 years ago he came on the show um and he was obviously fired in 2009 for saying that ecstasy was not as dangerous as horse riding. >> Yeah. >> Um and you know the amount of people that have died in the two different kind of camps that horse riding was way more dangerous. >> Yeah. >> I say it because things like alcohol is legalized. Yeah. >> Okay. And that's a drug >> and that's addictive. >> And I think it's interesting having this conversation because a lot of people might be quite a lot of people be very receptive done MGMA, love the drug, be very inquisitive about psychedelics on a whole, but I think there is another side that are still very scared of the conversation and that are worried about where their minds might go. and we look at it with, I guess, a lot of stigma from how we kind of been speaking about it since it's obviously become illegal, >> but we kind of forget about all these other drugs that are kind of on the market and that's so freely and widely available. >> And so I think it's there's a disadvantage with everything in life, right? I mean, maybe not everything, but the majority of things we've got to do things in balance. >> Well, people can die from water, right? You can drown in water, but we need water to survive. Everything has its risks. So, I think it's um what what I would say was going on in the 60s was that there was this growing government concern again because it was linked to Vietnam War protest. So, what the government did was they exaggerated the risks and then denied the benefits. And in response, some of the advocates like Timothy Liry would exaggerate the benefits and minimize the risks. And so I think trying to go forward, it's important for us to be honest about both. So, so I'll raise another one which is one of the critics was that that it makes um women in particular or or men more vulnerable to sexual abuse because of this trusting nature. So we've had one out of roughly 400 patients of which we're aware where after the MDMMA therapy was over the therapist had unethical sexy boundary violations with the patient. And so I think some of the this idea that you're I it's not quite that you're trusting everything. I mean we don't see people on MDMA walking in front of a bus or a car because the you're not completely fearless about anything. So we don't see but I think that this concern that people are in a trusting situation they're open s could they be taken advantage of by the therapists in different ways. So you could say for unethical therapists that can be a risk but that's what we need is the proper training of therapists and we need to properly educate patients about how this is inappropriate and patient bill of rights to complain and so that that's >> so on and so forth. Yeah. And that's where kind of the ethical consideration comes in. I think kind of alongside the MDMA because you did speak about masculine and and LSD and psilocybin. I think psilocybin is really having a moment. >> Oh, for sure. >> In time. >> Why do some people have bad trips? >> Well, okay. So, what we like to say is that difficult is not the same as bad. So when you take psychedelics, when you take masculine or or you take psilocybin, there is this process of loosening how you normally process information and how you normally see things. So your sense of self is being weakened that what Robin Card Harris has talked about the default mode network. This the sort of resting state where we're sort of scanning the world about what our priorities are, what our needs are. And this default mode network is like the um sense of self in a way and that that's weakened when you take psilocybin. So this idea that and that's where you move toward this interconnectedness. You move out from your individual life to something you're connected to something much bigger. But that can be really scary >> and that's where the ego comes in starts deflating. >> Yes. Yeah. So the what we say the difference between difficult and bad is resistance. So when you have something difficult and you open up to it as as we said earlier that that can be the things that you learn the most from. >> Yeah. >> But you need the support to do that. When in my early LSD trips I would be unable to let go. So it would turn into these very painful holding on for hours. So I would call those not so much difficult but bad because I wasn't I was resisting. So I think that there are that possibility and that's that's where you have the therapeutic support that makes a big difference. So people have bad trips because their orientation is changing their past memories some of them from traumatic experiences are coming up. Their insecurities they're trying to deal with and if they're in a public setting I mean most people still are taking things at party settings with others. They're not going inward. They're not supported by therapists. You can still have what I would say resistance even with therapists. That's one of the reasons for an eight-hour trip, an 8 hour therapy session. You might resist at some point and then you just can let it go for a bit or somehow and then hours later, you know, now you're finally ready or the the MDMA or suicide is wearing down a little so it's not as intense. Now you can open it to it. But people have difficult experiences cuz we are fundamentally overdeveloped intellectually and underdeveloped emotionally and spiritually. And what we see even from the TED conference and we're hearing about AI and all this stuff is we as humans and we as individuals are not prepared to deal with the technology that we have. So, we're vastly advanced in our brains, but our emotions and our sense of spirituality is either is is not nearly as advanced and then that can lead to difficult trips. >> So, when someone's in that, what advice would you give to somebody who's having in that moment if they're having a bad trip? >> Well, if they're >> or difficult, let me let me mind shift. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, what I found is that actually when we hear a lot about people that combine LSD with MDMA or psilocybin with MDMA, I I personally like it where people are doing LSD or psilocybin, they they do it by themselves and then if by by that drug only in a way, but then if they get stuck, then you could add MDMA. So I'd say that would be in the future psychiatry of the future once once all these drugs are available if you do the classic psychedelics and you have you get stuck adding MDMA would be really helpful because it doesn't tranquilize you it puts you deeper into the experience right >> a lot of people do MDMA and then on top of that they take LSD or psilocybin which can also be helpful so people have difficult trips because we're we're not all of our education is pretty much up in our mind that there's more this idea of emotional intelligence or EQ. We don't have much of that and we're not trained by that. School is not training you to do that. >> Yeah. >> We don't have any lessons in emotional intelligence sadly. >> Hardly any. >> Or bodily intelligence. >> Yeah. >> Which I now call BQ. >> Oh. Oh, that's interesting. Like to to know >> in your body. Yeah. And to be connected to >> Yeah. Well, it's important to say too that what we see is that in therapy a lot of times traumatic memories emerge in the body first before there's a story. So Bessel Vanderolk who wrote the book the body keeps the score was the principal investigator of our Boston site and so he's now of the opinion that MDMMA is with therapy is the most effective treatment for PTSD. But people will have pains in the body that if you can open up to it, it can turn into a traumatic story or a traumatic memory. We also sort of see things symbolically and not directly to our life because somehow it's easier to see in a symbolic way or it's so so things move through the body a lot. And so we we um encourage people if they have bodily pains to try to not resist that and to see what that turns into. Maybe that is a memory of a particular situation and then you can deal with it more directly. >> I love that. And when the body says no by Dr. Gaba Mate >> and the body keeps the score by Vaselov. >> Two people who I'm also really wanted to get onto the show cuz uh >> their research is incredible. It's inspired me a lot and I think a lot of my personal experiences with health have been from trauma being lodged in the body. >> Yeah. >> When I was taken into hospital when I was younger, I went in with his book. >> Oh wow. Well, let me say something about his book which is amazing. His book was written about nine years ago and it's recently been the number one bestselling book in America. It's on the bestselling list for like 250 weeks. So I think people are enormously sensitized now to the role of trauma in all sorts of diseases and all sorts of stresses and we see more and more trauma happening. So Bessel's book has been incredibly helpful for many many people. >> He only has a page or so about MDMA. He was just getting into MDMA. >> Very small. Yeah, >> very small. But he's written a new paper. So Bezel did not work with us on phase two where we're trying to figure he only joined us on phase three. And so what he said was don't work with people that have poor attachment that didn't have a sense of safety before they were traumatized because they're going to be the hardest to treat and you're going to make your studies more difficult to show good results and try to just work with people with more like adult onset trauma. And we said, "No, we've worked with a lot of people with complex trauma from childhood. It still seems to help." And so we said, "If you're going to do that, let me add some measures of somewhere like self-compassion, self self-experience, um, elixia, whether you're in touch with your emotions or not." And so we added a bunch of these measures and he's written a paper that he thinks has not gotten enough attention. And so >> let's get him on the stage to talk about it. >> He would love to do that. And it's about this self-experience, how you experience yourself. >> And that he feels that what he saw when he looked at the data is that those people that had difficult attachments, they actually on average got better results than those people that didn't because they were so hungry for that sense of self-acceptance and and self-compassion and and connection that once it happened, they were able to make a lot of progress. So I think this this paper that he published is is really important. He said that's the the real finding he says in his mind that that this can work in the most difficult cases. >> Well, I guess that just cements your theory on why MGMA is such a profound drug for especially something like PTSD where people feel essentially blocked and completely hopeless. >> Yeah. Well, that's where we get to eating disorders where people who are, you know, so self-critical and so perfectionist that that they don't accept who they are. And that's where I think MDMMA can be really effective. The the story that I was going to tell before was about um ibeane. So I I did a ibeane trip. Um >> explain what ibigane is. >> Okay. Ibeane is the active ingredient in the ibogga root. So Iboga is from Gabone from Western Africa and it's used in the Biti religion. Um I had this so far I've only had one Ibein experience. It was actually not Ibegan. It was the Ibogarude but I did it in 1985 with the person we called the secret chief the leader of the underground psychedelic therapy movement. And as I was going to work challenging the DEA, he was saying own your own shadow in a way so that you don't project you're all good, they're all evil and stuff. and he said, "I want to give you a IBOGA experience." And he mixed it with 350 micrograms of LSD because the plant takes a while longer and he wanted not to just wait around. And so it was the most difficult experience of of one of the the most difficult of my life. >> When was this? >> But 1985. So it was but it was um it was this whole confrontation with this self-criticism as self-hatred. I spent like 12 hours vomiting and seeing this. I I I was scared. I couldn't let go. I was criticizing myself and and this idea that I had to be perfect. So there was this sense of I'm not perfect. I don't like myself. I'm, you know, and this self-criticism turned into self-hatred. And I just would see that over and over and over and over. And after around 12 hours or something, I just I I called it transcendence through exhaustion. I just couldn't. I'm so tired of that. Somehow I just relaxed and I had the most blissful night. And what I realized is that the self-criticism is essential. You that's the key to quality. You need this constant like oh I should have done this, I should have done that. But if you separate the self-criticism from the self-hatred and that wanting to be perfect is also not wanting to be human. So there's a fear of death. I think when I want to be perfect, I don't want to be human. I don't want to die. I don't want to have to deal with that. So I was able to disentangle all of that so that then my the way I described how my fear has been helpful and so has my self-criticism. I've sort of defanged the self-criticism from the self-hatred because I saw how ugly that was and how difficult that was. And through this blissful night I could disentangle that. But somehow I told myself I hadn't really worked through that. I just kind of exhausted myself. And so I told myself this story, when the sun comes up, I'll be back in this nausea part. And that's what happened. I couldn't move for a whole other day. I just stay right there. It was only the third day that I could move. And it was only the fourth day that I could drive safely. But it cleared up my mind a lot. And so I feel that a lot of what Mass has been able to accomplish is because we've been able to learn from mistakes and because it's not been so painful to acknowledge a mistake because I've been able to separate it out from this self-hatred. So the self-compassion I'd say was part of what this I gain experience or IBOGA with LSD was like is like you don't have to be perfect and you need to learn from these mistakes and and just and because what I realized during that experience is the biggest mistake is not to do something. >> Exactly. That's where the regret comes in. >> Yes. >> I think self-compassion is is facing adversity and stepping into suffering. That's basically what self-compassion is, right? It's like self-kindness, mindfulness, which is what Dr. Kess Nefford would saying, and connecting to common humanity, knowing that we're all imperfectly perfect. But I think it's like a courageous action of stepping into suffering. >> Imperfectly perfect. I like that phrase. >> Imperfectly perfect because we all have this vision, especially now more than ever with online, of trying to have this perfect demeanor. >> And I had that when I was a model full-time. >> I could imagine. Yeah. >> You know, everything. And I knew every part of my body that wasn't perfect because it was pointed out to me every day. And it's ironic because most people would have said, "Oh, you know, you naturally tall or pretty or had these things and I hated myself." >> And I don't think you'll find any model that isn't low on self-esteem or self worth. >> Yeah, that is incredible. So, you're meant to have like this kind of certain person that's picked because of what they look like from their genetic lottery, >> yet they are the ones that hate themselves the most because they're so heavily critiqued. And so, I think, you know, you have very low self-esteem, which again is not a great comparison cuz self-esteem pitches you against other people. You have to kind of be at the top of the pecking order, but self-worth, I think, is a very kind of important determiner. And they all have very self low worth. I I can understand that too in the sense that as you said the genetic lottery. So that's not something you've earned or done. So if you're s if you're being if your worth is because of something that you didn't really earn, you just were born that way, then it's hard to own that if you're not perfect. And nobody is perfect like that. And so so how have you been able to get through that >> burnouts? um feeling having to really face the hardest parts of my ego. Um hospitalization. >> Wow. >> Which has given me weeks of mindfulness because I've not been able to move. Um really facing the hard parts of me, facing all of my shadows. And actually when I did that and I stepped into it, I started to know what my strengths were because I think for so long I would focus on what my weaknesses were and I would try to cover them. And I spent so much time covering all of the things that I felt ashamed of. And I so I never had time to understand what I was good at or what I loved. And I let more into that. And a lot of my work with nutrition and eating disorders and the charity that I built, building the charity allowed me to connect with other people's insecurities, other people's how they saw themselves as failures, worries, fears, and all of that humanized how I felt. >> Wow. >> So, I basically realized that we were all battling similar things. And similar with patients that would come in to see me, you know, they would open up their worlds to me. Yeah. >> And when you hear that five times a day, it becomes quite normalized. >> And so you go, well, every single person is facing this fear of their ego being kind of abolished and attacked or their worries. Everyone has them. They're not all logical why we have them, but everyone has all of these things. So when you're faced with that every day, it becomes quite normal, but in society, we aren't. People aren't that vulnerable walking down the street telling each other what their biggest worries are. So I think that what I went into made it feel very normalized and they my patients were my biggest teachers. >> You use the word shadow which I but I'll say that one of the most >> meaningful quotes to me is from Jung >> and and what he said is that the most important therapeutic social and political work we can do is to withdraw the projection of our shadow onto others. >> Yeah. I'm a big fan of young. >> Yeah. And I think it's hard to do that. >> It's very hard because the, you know, Trump is in is a perfect example of projecting his shadow onto others. >> Absolutely. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> He is. >> Yeah. There there's something else that Jung has said that that's also been highly motivating. This was from a face tof face interview he did in 1959, few years before he died. But we talked about he we need he said we need more psychology. We need to understand ourselves more because our biggest enemy is is ourselves. You know that we're not humanity is not going to be killed by lions or anything. Our biggest enemy is ourselves. And then he says we really need to study our psyche because we don't know enough about it. And then he says because we are the source of all coming evil. And that is a kind of a chilling thought. you know, a natural disaster is not necessarily evil, but we are the source of all coming evil. So, he's about this owning our own shadow. And so, it's it's been this um sense that humans, we we have the technology to have abundance for everybody. When we hear about AI can replace all these jobs, why is it that somebody has, you know, $300 billion and other people have nothing, you know? So, we we could distribute the resources. Everybody could have enough to eat, to eat, to have shelter. But are we emotionally ready, socially ready, responsible enough, spiritual enough, feel to actually create a world like that? So without that, the technology advances are are unusually frightening potentially. >> Yeah. Well, I guess that's why humanity is so important. I mean, I think empathy is one of the most important emotions and that's something that I don't think that we speak about enough. >> Yeah. Well, one of the things about MDMA that is surprising that you see in working with people with PTSD is that they often have empathy for their perpetrators. >> You said this to me actually last night when we had our conversation. >> Um, >> yeah. It's not that they for it's not that they don't see the the harm that they did, but they see that they're also often traumatized and have been hurt before and they don't know what to deal with it. So, it's it's uh often it's people that Yeah. people that they've been sexually abused by or their parents or something to to have some sense that there's a line of trauma that's led to them, their parent, whoever hurt them and they can see see that as well. I guess that takes us back to the very beginning even before the show or pre-show when you spoke about letting go. And I guess that's such a big part of that treatment, right? That when you feel empathy that for somebody else that's actually really hurt you, that really does give you the sense of letting go. There's a big freedom that comes with that. >> Yeah. You you don't have to be stuck in that kind of um forever anger, you know, that that you can move beyond that. It doesn't mean you for you know that you wish they didn't do that or it's not even the same as forgiveness. But it is sort of like but it's like >> you kind of hand that emotion back to them. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It poisons you and you have gotten rid of it though. >> Rick, thank you >> so much for coming on. >> I have to ask you one final question that we ask all of our guests. >> Oh. Oh. Oh. Okay. Is this is this like the first five? >> These are like the first five questions that we do on the on the getting to know you. So, the last question I ask all of my guests, and I ask this because I believe this is very individual and personal to every single person who sits in front of me, is Rick, what does live be well mean to you? >> It it means trying to um actualize your dreams. >> I love that. That's We've never had that before. We've actually never had the same answer in 400 episodes. >> Oh. Oh, wow. >> But we've never had dreams come into it. So to actualize your dreams. >> Yeah. >> Thank you. >> And actually what I should um it's actualize trying you know trying to actualize your dreams because often we cannot actualize our dreams because some of the dreams that I have like I talk about net zero trauma by 2070. That's a multi-generational thing. I will never accomplish that on in my own life. But I think if you try to actualize your dreams, whether you actually achieve that or not, that's live well, be well. >> Wow. >> Net trauma by 2070. I feel so pessimistic saying this, but after the whole week at TED with all these conversations, I'm not sure if I would love to. That's a possibility. But there's a lot of work that needs to be done. There's a lot of MDMA that needs to be taken before we get to that phase. a lot of MVMA. Yes, >> Rick, thank you so much for being such an amazing guest on Live Well, Be Well, [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 8Us26oapKiU (https://youtu.be/8Us26oapKiU) ===

foreign [Music] [Laughter] [Applause] could you tell us some more about so what is the um what actually do we know that happens and I know that let's talk about MDMA initial and I know it's really important to say this is therapy with that just giving somebody mdna they're going off and having a journey right on their own this is like 10 sessions right of there or so could you talk a little bit about what is it that opens the door what is MDMA or other psychedelics do that kind of shifts a door that allows open that allows to be open and what's the role of the therapist because I know these usually yeah to kind of guide healing in a really profound way okay well let me um I'll say that just say but I'll start back to Brother David steindle Ross yeah he's been here before yeah so um I I met him in 1982. and this was at esslin and this was when MDMA was still legal I I learned about him in 1982. and I went back there uh multiple times and I spent time with Brother David he's amazing and he was interested in doing MDMA to see about how it might help with meditation is it Benedictine monk is incredible he wrote gratefulness the heart of joy and is this yeah gratefulness yeah gratitude I heard of prayer yeah yeah and um yeah it's amazing he hasn't been excommunicated but what he said was he did um he did um half a dose in the monastery for meditation and he felt that it quieted his mind it quieted a lot of the chatter it helped him have a deeper kind of emotional spiritual experience and then later after the MDMA experience was over he could use that as like a a guidepost in a way to do it without the MDMA got it so there was a training tool to facilitate deeper meditation what is possible afterwards yeah so it was again this quieting this depth so in therapy we had to do a very strategic analysis um you know how do we bring back psychedelics and of the culture and which psychedelic and which patient population and for a bunch of different reasons MDMA being the most gentle the most easiest to integrate also we believe therapists who want to be trained to give MDMA or other psychedelics to patients would be better equipped if they've taken it themselves and there's more resistance in psychiatrists and psychotherapists to doing psilocybin or LSD than MDMA then we needed a patient population that was sympathetic to the Americans uh the American population we needed a disease that if it wasn't well treated could lead to Suicide that it had high cost for insurance companies like and and all that led for us to PTSD yeah all right so so MDMA for PTSD and as it turned out um this is we're the only one through phase two I mean two phase three studies and so PTSD to get now to your specific question PTSD changes your brain and if you have PTSD your amygdala your fear processing part of the brain is hyperactive your prefrontal cortex where you think logically is diminished in its activity so that your trig all these things trigger you and make you think you're you're back um in this traumatic situation it's ner and then the hippocampus where we put memories into long-term storage there's diminished activity and connectivity with the amygdala so that these memories don't ever really get put into long-term storage they're always about happening so MDMA itself and this was now discovered much later after MDMA was used in therapy for PTSD because it began before the brain scans but people observed what was happening but but now that we have all these brain scans what we know is that MDMA reduces activity in the amygdala so that your normal sphere signals from these memories or these things are reduced it also increases activity in the prefrontal cortex so we can think more logically increases connectivity with the hippocampus so that we can put memories into long-term storage and it's not now it's now in the past and then it releases a lot of hormones most notable among them is oxytocin which is the hormone of love and connection and nursing mothers and there's a woman Gould Dolan a neuroscientist at Hopkins that has done some incredible studies uh the first one was with octopuses and if you've seen my octopus teacher um you you know that octopuses are solitary creatures and um 600 million years ago or so the evolutionary line diverged between humans and octopuses for whatever reasons they still process serotonin and so Google wanted to know what happens if you give MDMA to octopus Catherine becomes very social and warm and yeah and she was like and was like yes we'd love to send you MDMA to give two octopuses well it turns out it took a while to figure out the right dose but once they figure that out you give MD Mato octopus and it hangs out with other octopuses now it's just bro social so it's evolutionary conserved and pre-verbal okay all right then she did a study with mice and what did she showed is and this is sort of the final piece of this methodology talk is that you give MDMA to mice it releases oxytocin and then the oxytocin is what contributes to neuroplasticity to new neural connections that are set up in these pro-social areas of the brain okay so it's in a way an ideal substance for PTSD but it's ideal only when combined with Psychotherapy it's the Psychotherapy that we really are delivering and the MDMA makes the Psychotherapy more effective and there are numerous stories of people that have taken MDMA again because this effect on memory and on the fear reduction of the amygdala they'll remember traumas but they'll be in a situation where they don't feel comfortable talking about it or that they're with friends who just want to party and we've had situations where people have checked themselves into hospitals to not kill themselves because the MDMA brought these emotions to the surface but they weren't in a way to process it yeah yeah so that's why what we're saying is that it's really the therapy and that context and in our therapeutic approach it's actually three MDMA sessions one month apart each eight hours long and 12 90-minute non-drug Psychotherapy sessions three before the first one for Preparation building Therapeutic Alliance getting the therapists and patients to know each other and then three 90-minute sessions after each MDMA session for integration process and then the the most important thing is so it's 42 hours of therapy with two therapists and we often do male female not always but people have we call it the archeology of trauma and a lot of it goes back to Childhood from people and so to have a well-functioning male female team which often people didn't have when they were growing up it's it can be very reinforcing but it's 42 hours of therapy with two people so it's very expensive and initially labor intensive so the only way that insurance companies will actually pay for it is if it's durable right and so what we've been able to show is that after in our phase two data we do the two-month follow-up so it's two months after the last experimental session and we purposely made it two months so that people couldn't say oh it's the Psychedelic Afterglow it's a little it's so that's what the regulatory agencies are looking at the comparison between uh therapy without MDMA versus therapy with MDMA at the two months but at the 12-month follow-up what we found in the phase two study says people keep getting better on their own without the drug and so it's not just that it's durable but people have learned how to relate to these inner challenges these inner fears and inner emotions and they've learned that instead of suppressing it there's a better way to deal with it and that they can Let it Loose they can experience it they've learned how to experience trauma in their bodies and in their emotions and to release it and they then employ these skills after the therapy is over and they can continue to get better so we've just put out a press release about the long-term follow-up from our first phase three study and showed that the effects were durable wow and I'll just announce that there's about to be a press release coming out any day now so I guess this is a little kind of advanced notice but um we have partnered with compass Pathways which is a psychedelic for-profit pharmaceutical company working with psilocybin for treatment resistant depression and we've negotiated with the American Medical Association on what are called CPT codes for insurance companies and they have agreed yeah for a longer pose so you don't have to pretend like oh this is eight one hour sessions in a row or something so that they're recognizing that um that we we if we bring forth new approaches to healing and they really are effective we don't need to squeeze them into the old framework the old framework will enlarge yeah and so we see that now with this new insurance code so that's giving us a lot of hope that once this becomes a treatment it's something that people will have access to it and not just shelf insurance will cover and probably save money we can't say for sure but but it's looking really really good and over time they will save money um and so we're also doing some studies where you're integrating self-compassion and mindfulness right as a part of it you want to see yeah yeah so this is um well this is one of the most important unfunded studies okay so far but this is at Harvard at MGH so so this is a true sign that the ghost of Timothy Leary has been buried you know they're like they just launched the Techno Han Center for mindfulness today at Harvard yesterday actually things are changing oh my God I was at the Harvard Divinity School a couple weeks ago for an all-day conference on psychedelics at Harvard Divinity School there's just uh yeah so anyway yeah okay so mg well that's where they're very interested in the Good Friday experiment of course um which is the first study in 1962 that looked at whether psilocybin could produce spiritual experiences and they included concluded that they did but MGH Massachusetts General Hospital now has the center for the Neuroscience of psychedelics and several one of the researchers Franklin King is working uh to do a study with mindfulness based self-compassion mixed with MDMA in veterans with PTSD wow and it's going to be a tremendous the Boston Red Sox have this program called home base and they fund the treatment enter for veterans with with PTSD and so this study would be taking place at home base and so I've tried to interest the Stephen and Alexandra Cohn Foundation that are big funders of psychedelics and Stephen owns the Mets competing yes the Red Sox and the Mets could be a really good combination so but it has not yet been funded they're considering it so I think that this idea that I want to get across is that the psychedelics are tools and they can be used in many many different ways and combining them with techniques that help people to integrate that help people to prepare is the way to get the best results so I think when you combine psychedelics with mindfulness-based self-compassion or any other kind of integration process but particularly that I think the results will be outstanding I think so too I think so too

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: NqClTWxm0cI (https://youtu.be/NqClTWxm0cI) ===

the climate of - what was I talking about santa phobia dislike of the other and the kinds of ways in which that makes an opening for incorrect behaviors and wrong behaviors and evil and hateful behaviors to enter into the community has been once again brought to our attention by affairs on the other side of the country so that's all be mindful of that so that they don't have to be like that somebody who was very anti-semitic went into a synagogue in Pittsburgh on Shabbat and murdered eleven kings and a bunch of other people were wounded and he was wounded and it's unclear other than just hatred what his motivations were so this morning and you know maps we've had these big psychedelic science conferences but we're not ready to do another one so we've been in sort of mini conferences and our last one was in Pittsburgh and so we worked with some of those people from the temple so we've been talking a little bit here about Santa phobia and hopefully we'll figure out a way to overcome that test nation of people but I do get to reintroduce Rick Doblin and I was gonna try to give him a funny introduction but I almost can't make it funnier than when he wrote so I'm just gonna read it Rick Duggan is the founder and the executor executive director of the multidisciplinary Association for psychedelic studies he received his doctorate in public policy from the Kennedy School where he wrote his dissertation on the regulation of the medical uses of psychedelics in marijuana and his master's thesis on a survey of oncologists about smoke marijuana versus the oral THC bill in nausea control for cancer patients his undergraduate thesis at the New College of Florida was a 25 year follow-up of the classic Good Friday experiment which evaluated the potential of psychedelic drugs to catalyze religious experiences he also conducted a 34 year follow-up study of Tim Larry's Concord Prison Experiment extended with dr. Stan Grof and was among the first to be certified as the holotropic breathwork practitioner his professional goal is to help develop legal contexts for the beneficial uses of psychedelics in marijuana primarily as prescription medicines but also for personal growth for otherwise healthy people and eventually to become a legally licensed psychedelic therapist he found in maps in 1986 and currently resides in Boston with his wife and empty rooms for three children who are all in college I would be better than that and I think I've been at long time thank you very much for coming Rick and welcome oh yes that's right I saw Rick prefers that if there are questions that remembers the audience want to ask about his presentation then she would feel free to raise your hand and I will bring you a microphone so that you can ask them during the presentation rather than holding them to the end and what could be better than having three empty rooms for kids in college is actually having some of them graduate two of them have graduated one is working and the other one is in the midst of an existential crisis what to do next the one is still in college I've suggested it and I think it's worked actually and so what I'm going to be sharing with you today is sort of a project that really was inspired in my in my life by Stan Grof and it's about trying to mainstream psychedelics and mainstream the states of consciousness that psychedelics can produce and do this initially strategically for medicine but also for personal growth and so what that means is post-prohibition world we need to go prohibition and make it so that people don't have to have access only through doctors or only through religions I'm personally allergic to religion and thinking a lot of ways and so I but I think that there's a lot of value in certain kind of cultural context and religious context and there's a lot of value in therapy extremely a lot of value but I think that's a fundamental human right to explore your consciousness and so that that's kind of the big framework I wanted to start just by thanking Janis Phelps and all the rest of the people here at CIS for creating the opening for talking in an academic setting about psychedelics and for their program their psychedelic therapies in the research program that's trying to help train the next generation of psychedelic researchers and therapists and more and more it's going to be about therapists rather than researchers because as we're doing the research we're going to be able to demonstrate safety and efficacy and hopefully we're predicting 2021 again MDMA approved as a medicine and others are working with psilocybin to do the same ketamine clinics are happening all over the place so I think to really just acknowledge the the major role that CIS is playing and trying to bring this to the floor I also want to acknowledge stan grof and Brigitta so this was taken a few hours ago so I'm very interested in keeping things up to date so I just was visiting with them and basically I took a bunch LSD when I was 18 years old was very confused about it I went to the guidance counselor at my college and I said help me with my OSD trips and this was 1970 - and the sky counselor was pretty sharp and he said this legitimate what you're trying to do we got to work out these issues and he gave me a manuscript copy of realms of the human unconscious before it was even published and reading that book solved my social crisis basically and I said this is what I want to do because it was a combination of spirituality without dogma of you know science with values and it was focused on healing so that it wasn't philosophy and less philosophy speculating it was this reality testing of are these ideas of the unconscious that we're learning from LSD are they something that can practically be used to heal people and it was done in a research setting so it sort of combined everything that I felt that we needed this access to this mystical sense of connection and reading that book sort of put it all together and so in 1972 I wrote a letter in the Stan Grof and to my astonishment he broke me down and that led for me to take a workshop with him when he was just married to Joan Halifax that was kind of a shy 18 year old and we didn't see much of them outside of the seminar and the rumor was they were practicing Tantra with the meditation but in any case I was very inspired by stand at the early age and so now all these years later it was just really a pleasure to be there together with Stan so I want to acknowledge his role in really pioneering this work and not only that but when the crackdown happened a lot of people moved into non-drug approaches Stan did the same and that he developed holotropic breathwork a way to use hyperventilation to create non-ordinary states of consciousness but you've always kept focused on psychedelics as well he didn't sort of deny that they were valuable he didn't say oh you've done psychedelics now let's move on to the next step we don't need him anymore he sort of carried the flag over psychedelics and has been a personal mentor of mine and so what I'm going to talk to you about is a lot of research a lot of things but I just want to give you a brief sense of how many people have come together to create this and we have several people from maps right here breda and tape but maps was now gone for the first seven years I started maps in 86 from 86 to 93 I was the only employee there was only one person and now we're over 45 people and we're at this growth stage so this is just a picture of some of the map staff we also have a separate company that I'll explain a little bit more about called the Maps public benefit corporation which does the research will train the therapists and will also sell MDMA by prescription and then channel the resources back to further research so this is part of our benefit core and then we also have principal investigators we've trained over 80 therapists and these are just our US sites you can see we're we have a training team but we only have four lead trainers right now so the key limitation as we go forward is how do we scale up the training program and that's why I so appreciate what CIS is doing here with their training program and we've trained a whole bunch of therapists this is just over the last few years this is to give you sense of how many people we've trained and this was just earlier this month in Europe so we're also both trying to make him humane to medicine in the United States and we're also moving through the European Medicines Agency and since this is a place where training has a therapist has taken place it's going to say that we have developed what's called a manualized therapy so when you want to move something through the FDA you standardize the drug obviously but you also in our case because it's drug assistance psychotherapy it's not MDMA is the treatment it's mdma-assisted psychotherapy so you have to standardize the therapy and to do that this is really based on a lot of the work that standing others did with LSD research but we have modified it for MDMA for post-traumatic stress disorder and this is the manual that describes it and in addition to this manual we've developed what are called adherence criteria that we've trained people to watch videotapes of the therapy sessions and then they can actually give a feedback to the therapists and how much they're adhering to the method and it's not that we think that this is the best method of the world are that other people couldn't use other methods and get people better as well but it's just this is the way we think to optimize it and so this is what we were teaching once it's approved as a medicine everybody's going to have to have training in this method but then they can innovate and do whatever they want they're not going to be constrained of just doing this method and so our training program has multiple parts it starts with an online course which Orient's people to MDMA to PTSD to the treatment manual things like that and then we have Part B which is a week-long in-person training which the photographs that I showed you for from that and that's mostly going over the manual but watching videotapes of actual therapy sessions and then talking about why did the therapy say this instead of that how come you know this approach so sort of to get a sense of really the range of experiences that people can have when they're working through PTSD and that's very very effective we also have this part see this experiential elective where we can give him the ax made to their apart of their training we have a special protocol this is where we really saw that the FDA was dealing with us in good faith because we went to them and we said there's a small group of people that were working with they've had a lot of experience with MDMA I mean we didn't quite say this way but a lot of it was underground and some of its above-ground but as we reach out to try to train new people we want to be able to give them MDMA because you wouldn't go to a yoga teacher who never did yoga you wouldn't go to a meditation teacher who never did meditation now you know people will go to a psychiatrist and get electroconvulsive therapy and we don't expect the psychiatrist to be shocking because it's not awesome so it's different but but we believe that therapists and psychiatrists would be more effective if they've done the drum and if they haven't done the drug and so we propose this to the FDA and the FDA said we can't give you permission just to give MDMA the therapists but if you wrap it in a study we don't care what you study we'll let you do it so we developed the protocol and we've taken over 60 people from all over the world and given them MDMA but this is really important is that we don't want to require it we don't think that people should be required to do a drug and we think it should be optional and we want to welcome skeptics we want to people into our training who for whatever reasons might not be willing to take MDMA and that's fine we we wouldn't be as enthused about hiring them to work on Phase three or anything if they hadn't done MDMA but at the same time we want to really welcome people into the program whether they want to do MDMA or not and if not they can do something other like Clojure boot breath work or use some other kind of Lukumi training or something and then we also have Part D which is roleplay with therapy so that people will do roleplay videotape it and then our training team will watch the videotapes and then we also have the final part which is really the way you train therapists is you have them work with patients under supervision and they get feedback and that's the best way to do it but with a Schedule one drug like MDMA we can't do that other than inside a protocol so we're limited by how we can right now we do have what's going to tell you more about it later but we have the zendo project which does psychedelic harm reduction at Burning Man and now's were so people volunteer for that we do give some training there and they actually work with loads of people that have done all different drugs they don't know which does a lot of times we don't know but it's it's it's another way to get training but really the best way is to work with patients so we're requiring everybody to work with one PTSD patient in the the same protocol that we use for phase 3 and they'll do under supervision and that's the final part of the training then they were going to have a little certificate and to show that they've completed the training and this is your normal certificate but this is the one if you done empty of age we think patients have a right to know their therapist you know and there'll be similar things like this for psilocybin now just it just to give you a brief sense of how amazing the cultural transformation is that we've been going through and it's been accelerating recently so I'm just going to give you now a brief tour just what I've been doing in the last two months just to give you a sense of different kind of communities I've been speaking to this is the opening ceremony at our village here but what we do is we do psychedelic art production at Burning Man and also it's one of our major fundraising tools is the meeting people at Burning Man we just got someone who has pledged seven hundred fifty thousand a year for five years for operational expenses the only time I've ever met them was one time at Burning Man and there's other stories like that as well so I just said Burning Man this this was the original zendo from 2006 when we this is a called disco who's the famous Zen Architect Zen goes and this was Vanya Palmer's who donated its Maps brought it from Switzerland and he brought it along with bunches and meditators there was always somebody meditating for the whole week and they were interested in combining meditate dance and MDMA so it's the the latest development for sin is moving forward in this way and there's more and more research now being done with lifelong Zen meditators and psilocybin as well this is just to show you our training program for the people working at zendo at Burning Man we had about 900 people volunteer we picked around 220 or so of them and we had the training in our village and this is really to both help train people but also to try to calm society down about people are having difficult psychedelic experiences we can process them we can help them learn from them it's not like it's a dead end it's not like they have to go and get tranquilized or arrested or anything like that so descendant project is really important this was several years ago where we got our own flag we were finally able so the Britannian organization is now comfortable with what we're doing as is the Bureau of Land Management the BLM police so several years ago Sara Gayle who's in charge of the said no project came and talked to the police at Burning Man about how to de-escalate psychedelic challenging experiences and so now we're pretty well integrated with the police as well so from Burning Man I went to the opposite of New York and I spoke at the Oslo Freedom Forum which is run by the human rights foundation and this is for human rights activists from all over the world and the reason that I was there was to give them hope about the treatment of trauma the treatment of PTSD because a lot of the people who work for human rights or traumatized themselves and so this was really the the purpose why I was invited but both you know talk about that and to talk to different individuals about therapy options that they you know but it was at the Kennedy Center in New York then this is a picture Mamie Emerson and her translator she was in China recently so a map stoner is interested in having us bring MDMA to China and what he said is that when we have the cultural we when we had the psychedelic revolution in the 60s China had the Cultural Revolution and his parents and their whole generation is traumatized from that and so he wants to try to bring MDMA to China and so Amy was sort of the advance scout for one meeting and then I went just at the end of September and this is a picture I mean this was the conference of the Chinese Medical Association and the chinese Psychiatric Association at Shenyang and so we were presenting and we was myself and also Moshe cobbler who was the principal investigator of the Israeli study and he used to be the former chief psychiatrist of the Israeli Defense Forces and so he was there to give credibility and which he did and then this is again another picture from an so it was kind of surprising to be in China when I was at the Kennedy School getting my master's degree was during tenements square and so I organized through student government as well with student government's all over the world an international day of fasting for freedom and human rights in China in Tibet and we actually got a bill commemorating that day through Congress and one of the people that was speaking also at the Human Rights forum was a demonstrator of students from Camden Square who got his legs crushed from the team and so being aware of the authoritarian nature the Chinese government and then actually being there in China was a little bit shocking and it was much more of warm reception than I could have anticipated so from China then I went to Europe to the European training where were training 60 people from 14 different countries mostly through Europe but also we have people from Israel from Afghanistan from Australia or we really try to globalize this the training went great but as soon as I got back I was only home for a few days and I had for me what was the most astonishing experience in the last couple of months and I spoke here at the International Association of Chiefs of Police and it was in Orlando and it was about MDMA therapy for police officers with trauma now we have a senior retired DEA official who's working with us now and the reason is because his son went into the army and hence PTSD and uses marijuana for PTSD so that changed the attitude of his father and his father is now working with us and arranged for this talk here so I've long felt that the police are the Predators and I'm the prey you know I've identified myself as counterculture drug using criminal from trying to go legit and so to be surrounded by thousands and thousands of police what was really surprising was the exhibit hall where all the new technologies for police all the new body armors are many ways to disabled people through sound all the new police cars just all the police technology was kind of surprising but well maybe it wasn't surprising is that President Trump decided that he wanted to speak here as well and so he decided to come at the very last minute and he was scheduled right at the same time aren't on the scanner so he was not able to come to our talk which would have been very good for him if he could have but we still got around 25 people and one of the people that was there was a police psychologist who now wants to go through our training program so it's really exciting and then they rented out the entire Universal Studios in Florida for a police party then we went to it was kind of fun but when I went to college in Sarasota Florida it was a rite of passage everybody had to take LSD and go to Disney World at some point and so I kept thinking this party would be a lot more fun no I'm not going to do it alright so then from there I went to Harvard this is this is now a conference that took place at the Broad Institute so Eli Broad is a philanthropist from LA he gave over a billion and a half dollars to this the the largest grant has ever been made to mental health research was the Stanley foundation that gave them six hundred fifty million dollars so they do genetics genetic research for all kinds of diseases now they're also and looking at mental illnesses and they're they've gotten only six seven hundred scientists between Harvard and MIT and so what I really really like about this is that this talk is sponsored by the Broad Institute the brain sciences at Harvard Harvard Medical School Maps and this was Stan Grof holotropic breathwork so this was sort of bringing psychedelics yeah back to Harvard and and it went great and so all these other speakers Robin current Harris was there on video but this was Michael Pollan was also one of the speakers and he's made such a big impact through changing your mind but from that I went to this this is a place called accomplice this is not that far from San Jose and this is one of the early Facebook people and this was a conference on receiver there as well this was a conference on different philanthropies so this was cryptocurrency donors meeting various philanthropies 10 10 charities were invited to give presentations and so there's just a bird's eye view of Silicon Valley so from there I went to esslyn eslint was devoted to Burning Man so Burning Man took over the entire Esalen and they were having a convening at Burning Man and because of our zendo project I was invited in that's Marian Goodell who is the founding owner of the CEO of Burning Man and this was incredible because this is that 1982 ashlynn that's me this is when I first learned about MDMA and so I came her wolf and so I was kind of in my wild stage and this was my first sort of coming up from the wild stage to study back in college and start back in college in 82 and this is a picture an s-1 and this is this is me when I learned so this is what you mean when I say I'm trying to go legit this is from the wild outside and so just a lot of these themes about going legit what's happening in two weeks so a little bit further is I'm going to Washington DC and so we have brought Burning Man to Washington DC and we have an event on the Washington DC mall called catharsis Darrell Duane and Nellie Ginsburg from our staff and the DC burner community and dr. Bronner's and others we organized this this is the first fire on the Washington Mall since World War two and we were burning up a jail cell this was the temple that when it started burning and turned into a jail cell burned up this is the second year this was another temple they didn't let us burn this unfortunately but we were able to bring our our Qatar tip runners brought to the art car so and this is my favorite but the idea here is that we really need to bring ourselves together that's what we mean by mainstream is psychedelics we don't want to be Outsiders and we want to be fully accepted this was sunrise this was right after Trump got elected so this is where some of us kind of got our fighting spirit back realized we're still part of America too and so I'm the theme of bringing our Burning Man self or psyche doll itself to the culture there's also the theme of bringing our political self to bring them so that's a feature that so that's just the last two weeks and coming right off so things have been just incredible from police to the Harvard's all over the place so so culture is changing in a very rapid way briefly why why do we need to do this according to Einstein has become appallingly obvious there our technology is exceeded our humanity what that means is that we can destroy the world and we are destroying the world and we have mass extinction and global warming and so but we don't have the emotional spiritual capacities to deal with that and so when I read this long time ago that's what I thought we need to focus on developing our humanity and the athletes directly it's a psychedelic UNESCO charter since wars began in the minds of men and as the minds of men that the defenses of peace must be constructed so again we're focusing on our way of thinking as what really needs to evolve for us to pass through these terrible times that were in now and this fall was confirmed by Robert Mueller this theory of change that the mystical experience of connection is the antidote the sense of being part of everything together that you know the murders that took place in the synagogue this morning how do you do my other x' how do you consider them less than or other if we're all in it together and it's one thing to say it but it's another thing to feel it I'm Rita Marley Marley's wife had a new album called who feels it knows it so Robert Muir wrote this in 83 this book about how really what we need is global spirituality we need people to have this more powerful sense of how we're all and together and that's the antidote to fundamentalism and his book didn't say anything about psychedelics but this was his theory so I wrote him a letter in the same way that I wrote Stan Grof a letter again to my surprise he wrote me back and I said we need psychedelic research you say it's so important would you help bring back psychedelic research and he said yes he would help and eventually he did and he also gave me a bunch of mystics to communicate with and of course I assumed he meant sentiment VMA which I then did and then they would report back to him brother David Stein Laura Brett me Solomon Schechter a whole series of Wayne Teasdale who was with Parliament of world religions and so anyway this this sort of confirms the theory of change that's why I think it's so important that we mainstream psychedelics not just for medicine not just for religion but for everybody so that we can have loads of people really knowing that we're all in it together and ger Mitchell the astronaut said when we see our fundamental unity with processes of nature and the functioning of the universe is like so vividly sought from the Apollo spacecraft the old ways of thinking and behaving will disappear and that is very true that but it's very expensive to send everybody else in space so psychedelics are the efficient cheaper in this theory of change and then we talked about my work as an undergraduate doing a twenty five year follow-up to the Good Friday experiment that Leary and Walter pan to get at Harvard and so I this is what I learned from talking to the people that had the psilocybin experience that this mystical experience motivated them to move towards social change they increase their acceptance of other religions and beliefs they deepen their equanimity in the face of difficult life crises that reduced their fear of dying and they felt greater solidarity and identification the genders they were all men foreign people as minorities in nature so this really for me is the key to the 1960s when you hear about the backlash against the 60s most of the time you'll hear about it as a bunch of people unprepared took LSD and other drugs and emotional breakdowns jumped out of windows thinking they can fly but all of these things were because there was difficult experiences that people had with psychedelics and that's why there had to be a crackdown to stop drug abuse but really this points to a different factor which is that psychedelics con right inspires people to challenge the status quo and the status quo is discriminatory or waging war in Vietnam or destroying the environment so really it was the challenge of people motivated by psychedelics challenging the status quo that really brought the backlash to take place but again this sort of confirms the theory of change and another reason that we need to do this is healing PTSD and month multi-generational trauma this is Richard rockefeller on the left Larry brilliant on the right and this was five years ago almost not too long after that but you died in a plane crash but he was our my main thought partner for quite a few years and we have these conflicts that go down generation to generation hundreds sometimes thousands of years and how and it gets passed on in an epigenetic way meaning the anxieties of the mother they don't actually change the genes but they change which dreams get turned on or off and so what we learned is now that we can interrupt multi-generational trauma in one generation in one of the emaciation sometimes or one psychedelic session so really we need the sense of connection but we also need to overcome all the trauma the people of from all the fights for thousands of years and so this is another reason to mainstream psychedelics these are neuroscientists at Stanford said the world's population does need more compassion and empathy for one another the study of MDMA provides one small but potentially important step towards reaching that goal so now we really this was a call to the laboratory for all the world's neuroscientists to try to figure out how does MDMA actually work how do we feel more connection and more compassionate more empathy because that's what the world needs more of and then this is the final step really of this theory of change is that legalization follows medicalization so this is a chart of the American voters attitudes towards legalizing marijuana from 1969 to 2017 so almost 50 years and what you can see here is that this is the rise of the this is the 60s this is into the 70s this is where people are thinking oh yeah marijuana is gonna be legal right around the corner and that's the way it seemed but then they're starting to be a backlash right they're from the parents groups Nancy Reagan and Ronald Reagan got elected in 1980 with it just say no movement and then there was this long period of basically nothing changing and then finally what changed right around the year 1996 is California you guys here in California passed the prop 215 which legalized medical uses marijuana and also in Arizona and so what we see is this gradual climb towards mix now this is not about medical marijuana this is about legalization of marijuana so medicalization is the needed precursor for legalized and in fact the people at the Marijuana Policy Project and the drug policy Alliance who are working on reforming drug laws what they've said is that attitudes towards legalization of marijuana grow more from medical marijuana than from marijuana decrypt and you would think that D Crimson's you're talking about actually penalties for illegal use that you get D creme than people who more want to get legalization but that's not the case it's because medicalization provides stories of people that have healed from marijuana and helped them with different things and you see dispensaries that are not surrounded by people with machine guns and it's you you see a new way of handling drugs in our society from medicalization so I think that really the medicalization of psychedelics is going to be necessary for at least a decade or more before we get to the legalization so we're currently I'm currently projecting 2035 for the legalization of psychedelics 2021 for medicalization and then a decade decade and a half of rolling out psychedelic clinics so everything is going really pretty well as far as psychedelics go there's no regulatory obstacles we've been able to raise the funding that we need for FDA phase three but the one area to say and this is the only time I'm really going to talk more about marijuana is there's a study that we've got going for marijuana for post-traumatic stress disorder and veterans and it's four different kinds of marijuana it's taking place in Phoenix Arizona with dr. sue Sisley it took us seven years to get approval starting this study was rejected multiple times the NIDA refused the National some drugs seems to provide us with the marijuana a couple times it's testing high THC low CBD versus low THC high CBD high tasting though for this is from the government nine percent nine percent is not particularly high to be tasting but this is the best you can get from the government monopoly this was funded by 2.1 million dollars from the state of colorado for marijuana taxes but the really next step that we need to make marijuana into medicine the same way is happening with psilocybin and MDMA is we need our own independent source of supply you need a drug that could be medicalised the there's a monopoly that's been involved in the united states since 1968 on the production of federally legal marijuana and that's run by the National Institute on Drug Abuse it's produced at the University of Mississippi and two years ago finally we managed to get the DEA to say that they would end the monopoly and they published a notice in the Federal Register in August of 2016 and then shortly after that Trump got elected and sessions got appointed attorney general so this was the former DEA administrators saying that the DEA has yet to approve single license application and now acting DK Administrator Chuck Rosenberg is set to resign over differences with the Justice Department one of those differences the Justice Department's refusal to let the DEA grant any licenses to grow research marijuana so you can see this was over a year ago but they said this so we're just getting we've sued the DEA this was back in 2005 we had protests on the lawn of the DEA this was in the courtroom the courtroom was inside the headquarters of the DEA I'm proud to say that they let us in and they let us out so we're about to sue again to try to force the DEA and attorney general sessions so this is the main way that science is being blocked by the drug war not so much with psychedelics where you would think maybe that would be more but it's with marijuana but I think that's because more people use marijuana more people could change their minds about drugs and so the clampdown is still there on marijuana and so we're working on this to try to firmly establish the principle that science should proceed without political suppression and so that has yet to be achieved so we are making MDMA or medicine here's one of the reasons why it's going to be coming from the active pi I don't know how many of you have heard about the active I study so this was a really amazing thing there was a neuroscientist at Johns Hopkins was from Turkey Barry is arkla Sinskey who works on our staff is also from Turkey and they had a bunch of conversations about it and it turns out that I think was like 50 million years ago or something like that 250 million years ago occupy and humans diverged evolutionary and so the question is going to be how do occupying react MDMA are they're the same binding sites whether they do and so this was a paper that was just published they're generally solitary they they're not social unless it's mating season and serotonin has been around for a long time but it's unclear if the social behaviors and in occupy are mediated in the same way as humans through serotonin signaling systems but they do have the ability it looks like it looked like to bind MDMA so they did this experiment where they have a three chambers the octa-pie is in the center and then on one side is an object in an object the other side is an anomaly Thank You us and so they want to just see how much time they spend in each chamber and without MDMA they spend more time with the inanimate object than with the other activator so the experiment is that they put the octopus in a 10 minute death of MDMA in the water and they absorb MDMA and then they repeat the experiment then what they showed is that they spend more time with the octopi after I'm you mated with the inanimate object and this is true regardless of the gender effects and so this suggests that the MDMA has some fundamental pharmacological properties that go beyond even humans that go through evolution and that that they spend more time after the pro-social MDMA has a pro-social effect so if people might think oh all these people are just thinking of the MA and they just want a party and they're saying it makes them feel closer or whatever it seems like it really has a basis in pharmacology so the occupies that tell us if it works what we know is that PTSD changes your brain if you have PTSD you have a hyperactive amygdala where we process fear and you also have reduced activity in the frontal cortex the priam where we think logically where we put memories in context and there's a reduction in active it also helps us process memories so this is how PTSD changes the brain but MDMA also changes the brain and it changes it in almost exactly the opposite way that PTSD does so MDMA reduces activity in the amygdala so that we can process emotionally challenging memories or easily it increases activity in the prefrontal context so that we can think more logically we can separate out certain signals somebody was attacked by somebody in a Red Hat and every time they see somebody in a Red Hat they get panicked but then you can say well this isn't that situation that requires a certain amount of rational thought this is increased and then there's more connectivity between the amygdala and the hippocampus under MDMA so we can take emotionally charged memories and store them in long terms and what happens then is that people this is our basic understanding of how ever you may works what is that when you're in a position of safety and you're able to look at and think about recall the traumatic experience the mood that you're having is one of safety even though people are crying they're shaking still they're able to process it they're not it's not so overwhelming that they have to stuff the feelings they're able to process it and they're able to place it in the past instead of always happening that's the problem Pete is T it's always happening or about to happen or it's right around the next corner and so what happens then is that you reconsolidate the memory which means that after you remember something you have to sort of re imprinted on your brain and we're switching out then so the episodic memory and the emotional memory are separate but they get combined and so after MDMA therapy or while and EMA is actually having this effect and you're thinking about it from a position of safety the way your re coding the memory is with a different you've switched the emotional content and also people's memory is increased for the trauma because sometimes aspects of the trauma are so painful that you can't even bring them to awareness and so they still have a negative effect always in your subconscious so we bring these memories up to the surface through MDMA then people are able to reprocess it and reconsolidate the memory in a different way so that afterwards when they bring back that memory they've got it in the past and they have a sense of safety that's part of their journey it's not happy right now so that's we think how MDMA actually works it also increases serotonin and norepinephrine dopamine but also prolactin and oxytocin which are hormones of nurturing and love and they help build the therapeutic alliance and they help people feel connected and empathy again for others which they've often lost when they've lost trust so what I'm going to do now is show you a video it's about a ten minute video of an actual and we made therapy a series of MDMA therapy sessions in one of the veterans that was in our study and so this is this veteran was a Marine he was two tours in Iraq and he was struggling with rage that was the big problem once he came back and so I think a lot of people that we talk with don't really know the difference between what's MDMA what LSD what psilocybin under the veterans a lot of the subjects don't even know then they just know psychedelic it's all going to be you know bright colors and this and that but this will give you a sense of what MDMA therapy actually looks like and how it works I'm crazy can you make it louder there's a lot of captions and so you can sort of see what's happening even if we can't hear it oh great so slow my mind was just racing at the speed of light it goes like a nurse's you can see it's a male/female Co therapist team which is our standard model and this is Michael inanimate over we have people spend the night in the treatment center afterwards and then there is a integration session with very nice statuses thousand services really it's hard to put in words that aspect of me that's just really graceful and also besides that image I told y'all about you know the fighting with them I had this image of it like gel so yeah like I know that part of me he's locked up in jail it's just you know got it's dark but it's got you know you know bright red eyes just really evil and I thought that and I felt like so I felt like I put the person their [Music] eyes just faded away no longer had kind of an evil look to it itself and like be like I visualized both of us just taking apart the jail cell and just you know like really becoming friends and then I visualized I visualized that image I told you about of me like it coming out of my hips and stabbing at the side everything I just had a strong visualization at me like reaching up where the knife was on my side and taking it out there took my hands off its neck didn't choke it anymore I just like really embraced it and like I don't know I feel like I don't know like part of me realizes that I think I was taking that person I'm keeping a lock done because I was so afraid of them and then that by putting him in that cell keep it up locked up that I was just making it worse for him no that was your really more beneficial if we work together I never realized how much I I thought I was being a peaceful person but I didn't realize how much I was punishing that aspect of me because just I think maybe in Iraq I saw but it was capable of and I think I was too afraid to you know a part of me just feels like so bad that I did that I mean I know it's me but I just was like um yeah I don't know I just got this amazing sense of just guess wisdom and I really don't know Grayson to me I was really made something you like try and think of that really rageful an aspect of me like I can't even I know it's David it just doesn't I really feel like so much more a piece of make everything great you got by trying to think about directing everything like I somehow feel like really peaceful about the fact that that's my journey I mean I know this is for the you know part of the truck but I'm trying to think you know am I gonna be able to hold on to this misunderstanding in this wisdom it's knowledge that I have now let me just asked myself that question I feel like it's so profound that I don't think I could really so this was about ten years ago and so he still is free of PTSD and there's a book called the acid test LSD ecstasy in the power to heal and this the Nicholas Blackston is the veteran that's written about in that book so if you want to learn more about his journey you could take a look at that book now I'm going to give you just a brief sense of the history of MDMA so it was invented in 1912 by Merck they weren't looking to get anything in particular they were looking to abate a competitor's patent on a different drug and they just found a new synthetic pathway and patented everything along the way and MDMA was one of those things they didn't do anything with it till about 15 years later when they gave it to some animals and the animals didn't say oh I love my other rats the animal said nothing and so they decided there was nothing going on here with this drug and they abandoned it the next time we hear about it or the next time it's actually used as in 53 and 54 when the US Army chemical warfare service is looking for mind-control drugs and they did a series of toxicity studies with 8 different drugs MDMA being one of them and these were from mescaline to methamphetamine and so it's a good way to understand MDMA is that it's like halfway between masculine and methamphetamine but different than either one so it has the energizing properties of methamphetamine without the jitteriness you can sit still with MDMA and you can meditate with MDMA it has the psychedelic properties of mescaline but it doesn't have that sense of in higher doses of ego dissolution and this results were kept classified though and so nobody really knew about them other than a few small people well numbers of people in the military and Merck and if United decided and once again they found nothing interesting in it and then in the 1960s there was a drug called MDA methylenedioxypyrovalerone first of an MDMA and it was quite popular and a lot of people did it it was called a miracle drug of America and it was pretty great but then it was criminalized in 1970 when the Controlled Substances Act and all sorts of drugs were criminalized and then different chemists were looking for different drugs that were chemically modified but were would still be legal so Sasha Shogun is the hero of this story and he resent the sized MDMA and also hundreds of other drugs and he found him you may have incredible therapeutic properties and he gave it to me OSF who was what we call the secret chief so the first book that maps ever published was called the secret chief and then years later a new additionally called the secret chief revealed after his family was comfortable revealing who it was and roughly half a million doses of MDMA were used in therapeutic settings from the middle 70s to the early 80s but some of those people had tried it in those settings decided that more people should have access to it they should have max to added more recreational settings and they turned it into ecstasy and ecstasy was in particular developed at the star club in Dallas Texas and this is really where it became a party drunk and that's what attracted the attention of the DPA so as I mentioned earlier I learned about MDMA in 1982 when it was both Adam was the code name for it as a therapy drug Debi Harlow was here I came to esslyn in 1982 and talked about a new drug and so I learned about it from her and so all of my progress I would like to say thank you Debbie what yeah yeah but at first when she talked about it I was not interested because what she said is it helps you feel loved it helps you feel connection it helps you talk to people and I'm like I feel loved I've been loved right now I can talk to people and then there was a group of people that were sitting around I saw a Tesla and a group people were sitting around in a circle doing the drawing that Debbie had brought and they were sitting around talking to each other and I'm like how profound can that be you know you take a bunch LSD you can't talk so if they're talking it must be like a low-level drug so I was stupid enough to underestimate it but smart enough to buy some I said then I took it home and dinner with my girlfriend and that was just absolutely shocked how deep and profound it was and so with Debbie and others since it was already xse it was doomed and so we started thinking we have a great opportunity here because we know the backlash is coming but while it's de legal we can run around we can introduce it to various people and so Debbie and I and a woman Elise agar started another nonprofit before maps called Earth metabolic design lab which had been a friend of mine had started it in association with Buckminster Fuller but he wasn't using it my friend wasn't using this nonprofit so I took it over and then Debbie and Elise and I used it and what we did is we organized the advocates for MDMA psychiatrists psychotherapists and we wait and then we prepared and in the summer of 84 the DEA announced that they were going to criminalize MDMA and the way that they do that is they have to put a notice in the Federal Register at last you have 30 days to file for a public comment period and we had through Andy Weil who was friends with a lawyer Rick cotton who was from a big DC law firm they agreed to take the case pro bono so we had a big support from DC law firm and so this is me spying on the DEA moments before I walked in the door and to hand them this request for a hearing so the DEA had no knowledge that MDMA was really a therapy drug they only knew about it as ecstasy so it took time totally by surprise but they had to grant a hearing and we were winning in the court winning in the court of public opinion which freaked out the DEA and so in the summer of 85 Day of emergency scheduled MDMA while the hearings were still going on this is gene Hayslip who is announcing the criminalization of MDMA the irony here is that the first move against MDMA to criminalize it was itself illegal the DEA did not have permission to emergency schedule drugs and a bunch of people that got arrested in this early period of time really said so in 86 and there's Debbie and this picture too in 86 I started maps so it was clear that we weren't going to be able to protect this legally and that we were going to have to make it into a medicine and so I started maps as a non-profit so you know like pharmaceutical company with the main focus on MDMA I was blissfully unaware at the time that no drug had ever been made into a medicine by a nonprofit organization that didn't happen actually till 1999 and that was the abortion pill are you 46 funded by Warren Buffett the Rockefellers down the Rockefeller third through the population council and procedures so Maps was started in 86 the first six years we had five different protocols from Harvard from UC San Francisco all that were submitted to the FDA all of them were rejected for MDM a breather phase one or phase two protocols and what happened in 1990 actually is that Rick Strassman got permission for a study with DMT the people at the FDA who regulated psychedelic medicines shifted to a new group and a new group took over and they decided to put science over politics and so in 1992 Charlie Grove and I were able to get permission for a Phase one dose response safety study I understand Charlie was speaking this morning and so this was a great triumph so finally we were able to start with MDMA what the FDA said is that they would review psychedelics the way they review any other drug so even though by this point in time tens of millions of people had taken MDMA all over the world none of that data counted we had to sort of recreate it from the beginning in and I the under the approval from FDA and it took us from that study ten eight years to we can do our first study in patience and Michael bend over came to me at a conference here in San Francisco the Ralph Messner organized it was the first ayahuasca conference and Michael said let's go set up an offshore clinic he was a member of my ops I didn't know him he had already been through the whole public breath route training with Stan and he was an expert VTS d and he said let's go set up an offshore clinic somewhere because he had just had a patient of his go to same kids to take ibogaine and that clinic that was out there and I said I'm absolutely totally not interested in doing that that we have to go to the inside to change from the center out we can't find some little isolated utopia somewhere I don't know of those of you who've read Island by Aldous Huxley but it was about creating an idyllic society and where psychedelics are woven into it and that was what all this was going to be writing about and while he was writing about he actually changed his mind about the book and then the plot ends with the outside world comes and destroys the island so again with global warming with nuclear weapons we can't find some little place somewhere we have to make change from the inside out and Michael was willing to do that so we were able to start his study in Spain with that was the first study with MDMA for PTSD and unfortunately we got really good media attention but that attracted the attention of the Madrid ends and drug Authority and they shut the city down for political reasons and so this was a paper of the abbreviated study and that in the u.s. we got approval in 2000 also for a study with the FDA but seven different IRB s institutional review boards all rejected the protocol we had fda approval but we couldn't get ethics committees for this is super frustrating and so I started Napster dinner Oh an IRB and I thought you know we're an institution you know we can do that but then I thought it is the last minute you know before I would actually go forward it's not doesn't look as legit if you authorize yourself to do something although it's possible so I looked at the list of private IRB s and there was one call that Copernicus group and I figured if anyone is sympathetic to science being blocked by politics or religion and be Copernicus and mobile yea they improved the protocol we had to buy a billion dollar insurance policy to indemnify them we spent about sixty thousand dollars on insurance just to insure them we had to have an aversion or doctor in their sitting in the next room that was another fifty sixty thousand dollars they never had to do anything but anyway they gave us permission and out of this came some papers in 2010 in 2012 the 2012 paper was really good because it showed that the effects were durable they lasted three and half years at least we just published in the lancet psychiatry about our study in firefighters police officers and military veterans for political reasons this was really going to be with veterans but I thought well let's just say it's for firefighters and police officers also so we'd be sort of sending that message and then to our delight we actually got some firefighters and one police officer as well so what we learned from phase two was first off that MDMA works regardless of the cause of PTSD the drugs often paxil that are approved for PTSD they tended to work well in women but not in they completely failed in combat related PTSD so the SSRIs are dependent on the cause of PTSD but what we showed is that mdma-assisted psychotherapy works regardless of the cause of PTSD I thought I had a brilliant idea of how to do double-blind studies with psychedelics and I got my dissertation approved but this was a big part of it which was the idea of low doses versus full doses there'll be more confusion they'll be more blinding and I thought the problem was that the low doses he want to make sure they're not too high so you get therapy benefits because then it's going to be harder to show difference between the two groups but you don't want it to be too low so people don't confuse them so we've done studies with all different doses and what we found to our surprise was that low doses of em you may have an anti therapeutic effect in that they activate people but they don't reduce the fear enough and so they still get better but they don't get as much better as if they had just the therapy with no MDMA at all so when we went to the FDA I said I thought I solved the problem I said actually that there was an early president of Harvard 150 years ago he said never forget there's always a Harvard man on the wrong side of every issue and I said in this case it's me and I thought I saw the problem but I didn't I said there is no solution to the double-blind problem now I don't necessarily say this is true for psilocybin but we've demonstrated that it is true for MDMA so you do get blinding but it doesn't really give you the comparison with the therapy itself and that's what we really want to know is why bother at a drug if the therapy by itself can do the drug why take a risk of adding a drug so the FDA said yes they will let us compare MDMA or therapy with inactive placebo with therapy with MDMA what they said is for situations like that when you still want to get blinded but most of them or you still want to eliminate experimenter bias and the way that you do that is by random assignment everybody is similarly motivated and then you have to have a very complicated system of assessing the benefits by an independent cool of Raiders and so we were able to do that we also demonstrated that MDMA could be safe in clinical settings and that there was a medium to large effect size now what I want to share with you now is the fundamental difference between the research with MDMA and the research with classic psychedelics and so what the research with classic psychedelics showed from the 60s and then more recently with psilocybin is that there's a link between the depth of the mystical experience and therapeutic outcome the deeper the sense of the mystical experience the more people heal from fear of death or from addiction or from depression so we used the same states of consciousness questionnaire that was originally it's a slightly modified but it was originally developed in the Good Friday experiment 1962 by Walter pahnke and surprisingly so 0.6 60% is a full mystical experience according the way they decided this and with MDMA you can see that the mean is 0.46 so people actually score pretty high on when they get active doses with the comparator doses the mean is very low point 1 5 so we have enough and we have about one fourth of the people actually have full mystical experience according to this questionnaire but we showed absolutely no correlation between the depth of them is to experience and reduction of symptoms of PTSD so what I think that means is that for PTSD you need to be anchored in your biography the memories from your specific trauma from your ego from your life and you need to reprocess them in the way that I was described it's not about having a mystical experience going beyond your ego that helps you really overcome trauma from your life and so that's why the way in which we do the therapy we're and our method we're not trying to steer people to a mystical experience and in our therapy roughly it's eight-hour session roughly half the time people have their eyes closed listening to music processing in the imagery and metaphors thinking about their lives and the other half of the time more or less they're talking to the therapists in no particular order you know when it happens with psilocybin or LSD it's around 90% of the time people's eyes are closed around 10% of the time they're talking about the therapist and usually this is not long talking like the way you saw with the MDMA patient that's just a few words so this really is I think a key to how therapy should be done with MDMA for PTSD so based on all of this work thirty years from the time I started maps the 2016 is when we had the first end of phase two meeting with FDA this was November 29 2016 and this is where we want to go to phase three phase three of the start of this phase that really are the large-scale studies to prove safety and efficacy to get permission to market a drug and we presented data from 107 patients from Israel Switzerland Canada in the United States what we showed is that in the placebo group that either got this low dose of you may or inactive placebo with the therapy after two sessions 23% still no longer an PTSD which is really good these are chronic severe treatment resistant patience and this is demonstrating that our therapy is actually somewhat effective comparably the other non drug signal therapies but when you add MDMA after treatment you're up to 56% in more than doubles but what's even more remarkable and this is at the conclusion of treatment is two months after the last MDMA session we also do a one-year follow-up and what we find is that at one year two-thirds of the people no longer have PTSD so there's a healing process that started it takes a while even after the primary outcome measure which is the two months after the last MDMA session so that two month point is what the FDA is going to evaluate our phase 3 data on but then the one year is really what insurance companies are going to be looking at will they cover it doesn't last as a durable so after this meeting with the FDA they said yes we can go to Phase three but what we did is there's an option that the FDA has called special protocol assessment where most pharmaceutical companies don't do this but if you want to you can debate and discuss every aspect of your phase three designed and all the other information Ft is going to want to see to make it into a medicine and if you come to agreement you get an agreement letter from special protocol assessment and that binds the FDA they are legally required now to approve the drug if we get statistically significant evidence of efficacy and Nonya safety problems arise and since we have gotten so much information on safety there's 5,000 papers in MEDLINE under MDMA or ecstasy so we managed to get this this did the last about seven months but it was really important and so we've got the special protocols husband and this is the approval that we got as I said they gave us rules to do begin active placebo there's three MDMA sessions one month three or five weeks apart and there's 12 non drug therapy sessions three to prep before the first session and three after each MDMA session for integration and we're going to start everybody's and start with eighty milligrams we also give half the initial amount after two hours to extend the Plateau doesn't really make it stronger but it gives more time for people to process and then there'll be a discussion the second session we're assuming that almost everybody will go up to 120 milligrams with the 60 milligrams follow up their extra after 2 hours but if there's some reason that the person or the therapists think they should state 80 they can stay at 80 and then the third is also going to be a similar gist discussion and so that's the the protocol has been approved but FDA went even better they granted breakthrough therapy this was in August a cup about a month after we got the special protocol assessment I was I knew that we qualified for breakthrough therapy this is the most important program that the FDA has for the most promising drugs but it's very public and I thought is the FDA really going to want to publicly say yes to MDMA being a breakthrough and so they did so then I don't know how many of you ever heard but just several days ago there was a press release FDA has granted breakthrough therapy for psilocybin and part of the reason that they did this breakthrough is that there's pharmacotherapies so often packs literate proof but they require daily dosing for months or years at a time they reduce symptoms but they don't cure the problem and then if you stop taking on the problems go back and there are psycho therapies that work quite well for a fair number of people but for others they can be reach Ramat izing and so there's high dropout rates and just to give you a sense of it this is over two years old but as of June 30 of 2016 there was eight hundred and sixty eight thousand veterans receiving disability payments for PTSD and there was almost six hundred thousand more veterans receiving disability payments for anxiety depression other mental health disorders so there's just a massive number of people that are treatment resistant the last time they put out a number of how much it cost it was twenty thousand a year that was in 2004 so at that rate assuming it's still today is 17 billion a year that the VA is spending at disability payments for PTSD and thirty twenty nine billion for all mental disorders well there is a crossover yes but the way in which I think I have to plug this in somewhere few guys but so the way we did phase two is that everybody got two fashions then we uncovered the blind and those people that have the placebo could then go right directly into stage two which was open label MDMA so what the FDA said now is because of these issues of blinding that we're going to have to complete the entire study so there's two phase three studies each with a hundred people and fifty in each group and then we have to complete all of them from start to finish and have the two-month follow-up for all of them and we uncover the blind and then the people who had the placebo can go through it again so that's going to be harder for people to do it's going to be a longer period of time that they're gonna have to wait and try other things but that's just the way we need to do it with the FDA now after we have the breakthrough therapy we had meetings at the DEA so this we after our meeting by the way which went really well we went downstairs and there was the DEA store and they had these patches these are only one of a series of patches they must have contracted with like a Grateful Dead artist who made these incredible patches that are really quite beautiful actually although this is their passion about Dancing with darkness for em do you mate but we met with the DEA on December 19th to talk about what's called expanded access and also about more licenses that we're going to need for a DA to give to schedule Ottoman licenses to people working on face tree expanded access is what's called compassionate use and what that means is that if you have a disease that nothing has helped and there's a drug that's being studied for that disease you should be able to get access to this drug at your own cost and at your own risk but nothing else has worked and that's called expanded access president trunk just signed a bill called right to try which basically cuts the FDA out of it and people deal directly with pharmaceutical industry and that's only for terminal illness though FDA doesn't like that but they do like expanded access because FDA still involved there's still a bit of safety data gathering and and DEA was was flying just a beautiful little moment was there's two DEA buildings and the land up above it was being renovated we had to go through the garage so and you can only go with an escort with the DEA into the DA police our DEA official escort was taking us from one building to the other and she said we're gonna have to go through the underground to get through the other way and I said alright we're comfortable in here so then we get to the other building and we're up to the 6th floor and for some reason on the second floor the elevator opened and nobody got in and nobody got out and none of us had pressed the second floor and then the doors closed and as we're going up to the 6th floor our DEA consultant reminded me that the court room is on the second floor so the last time I was at DN quarters I was on the second floor in the courtroom suing the DEA so we had this momentary opening of this past then closing and then we went up for this collaborative meeting it was just a really meaningful little coincidence the next day we had a meeting of the FDA also planning under the breakthrough therapy planning also for expanded access and for Phase three these are all of our Phase three sites we have 15 sites all over the world for Phase three now we've also been June 12 we are at the European Medicines Agency so we're trying to bring MDMA to Europe as well it's going to be 27 million dollars to make MDMA into medicine in the FDA for Phase three we've raised all of that in donations and what we worked out here is that the European Medicines Agency will accept data from the FDA so it's only going to be about nine million dollars to make MDMA into of medicine for Europe and Europe has more people than FDA and one of the things that was so touching for us is that the european medicine agency said we want you to enroll REM we want you to enroll refugees and migrants in the stone so we're still in the fundraising phase we have 900,000 of the nine million and we're hoping for the rest it's going to be a country-by-country negotiation and so we've just been granted expanded access in Israel for 50 so 50 patients can get access under expanded access they do have that and so I think we'll be able to do that but what they want to know is that you're not slowing down phase 3 and so I think we're and and there's only those therapists that we've trained that can be providing this expanded access so first we're going to make sure that they're working on phase 3 and then and so what we're doing right now is we're going to start training more therapists for expanded access in the US and actually expanded access can start next summer we think and so there's a lot of people then that can set up clinics differently they think about expanded accesses patients can pay for it it won't be covered by insurance until it's approved but expanded access is a big important way we have over 20,000 people with PTSD who've signed up on our website to be notified when phase 3 starts and phase 3 is only for 2 to 3 hundred people so there's a there's millions as I've shown you Ted there's about 9 million people or so with PTSD in the u.s. so but yes we will try expanded access in here as well just to give you a sense I've just spoken about PTSD but there's we've done a small phase 2 study with Charlie Grove and Alicia Danforth MDMA for social anxiety and adults on the autism spectrum they just published it last month in psychopharmacology there's really good results they've also done study with Phil Wilson and Jelena Andrews with MDMA for people with anxiety from life-threatening illnesses and they're working on that paper now there's a project in England with been Sessa MDMA for alcoholism so this is the first study that's looking at MU main patients that we're not funding it's really good and what they're basically saying is that trauma is what drives people to drug abuse a lot of times running from trauma and if you can deal with the trauma then they're not going to be as motivated to drug abuse there's a study starting very soon at Yale and this is a mechanism of action study taking people with PTSD giving them MDMA sticking them in a scanner and seeing how their brains operate under the influence of MDMA so we have healthy volunteers have taken MDMA in the scanner that's why I was able to present you the data before but no PTSD patient has ever gone into the scanner under the influence of MDMA so this is at Yale and yellow is also one of the National Center for PTSD sites for the Veterans Administration we also are doing studies with VA affiliated therapists so again we're paying to educate the VA therapists about what MDMA does and we're also saying see if it can blend with the therapies that you've developed so the first one is this cognitive behavioral conjoined therapy conjoint meaning couples where one member of the couple has PTSD and it effects the relationship and so we've done six couples like that six diets and it's been remarkable and how well it's helped the person with PTSD Kyel but also how is strengthen the relationships and so you can only get drugs through the FDA to treat diseases couples therapy is not a disease it might feel that way sometimes but but this is where we're sort of backing into learning about MDMA for couples therapy we're also working with barber Rothbaum at Emory I'm blending MDMA with prolonged exposure and we're working with and we in canis Ponson to blend MDMA with cognitive processing therapy these are the three main therapies used by the VA and for cost reasons and also perhaps it even works while we're starting to look at group therapy and since it's about Halloween I got this image for you group therapy so we got a $500,000 grant pledge for us to do group therapy and veterans so we're so busy but we're still working on the protocol it would be a while before we started but this is a really important area to move into is how can we optimize and what can we learn maybe group therapy works even better I think for a severe chronic treatment-resistant PTSD individual therapy is going to be required because there's shame there's difficulty I think it'll be very difficult for people to do it in group oh but we'll see and then we're also trying to do projects with psychedelics for conflict resolution there's a bunch of Israelis Jews and Israeli Arabs that are taking ayahuasca together and so we gonna stay down so that's a bit about the history now going forward and this have more time for Christmas so the expanded access compassion that you said I mentioned this so how does the drug actually get approved the FDA has a program called REMS which is risk evaluation and mitigation strategies and this was actually developed for thalidomide the lid amide was the the main bad drug in the early 1960s that was given for women for morning sickness that caused terrible birth defects and so the FDA blocked that from becoming a medicine in the US the only FDA official that ever won the presidential managed the Medal of Honor was the woman at FDA that blocked the Linna by from coming into the u.s. now falooda mine is a medicine it's approved by the FDA and there's it's good for leprosy it's good for certain kinds of cancer for constricting blood vessels but there's a whole set of policies on how it's used to prevent it from being causing more birth defects and so the FDA is developed that they can have special regulations for for drugs and have unique risks and so what we're talking about with REMS is that only those people that have been through our training program can prescribe the drug and can be in direct contact with patients because the drug is not the treatment it's the drug assisted psychotherapy and it will only be administered in clinics in clinic settings only under direct supervision and it's under those circumstances that both FBI and DEA are comfortable letting us go forward it's fundamentally different from medical marijuana which is you get a month supply you take it at home who knows who you give it to you know it's a nightmare from a drug control perspective from the DEA but MDMA and so Simon will be easily controlled similarly ketamine as as a medicine for depression you know well now they are giving it to people you know in nasal sprays and things like that so a little bit challenging from a regulatory point of view but anyway these are the reps this is how it'll be then we're gonna start clinics there's 14,500 drug abuse treatment centers in America 6100 hospice centers 33,000 yoga Pilates studios so there there will be thousands and thousands of psychedelic clinics some of them will look like this yeah some will look more like this you'll go to Google Maps one day you'll say where is my nearest so you know a clinic this is fine these are of course all the ones in Europe now one of the things that we're saying to donors and to others is that we're in a unique situation as a non-profit because we're actually talking about having a product at the end and so what we're saying is that we can become a sustainable nonprofit if people can help us medicalize MDMA through the FDA through the European Medicines Agency we should be able to make money selling MDMA now MDMA is invented in 1912 it's off to happen and in the middle 8 when I started maps in 86 there was another group that started MDA International which was to make ibogaine into a medicine and they decided to do it in a for-profit way and they got a you spent that ibogaine for opiate addiction and unfortunately they all started suing each other the researchers they all started thinking about profits and it destroyed the whole thing so in the late 80s early 90s I contacted the same attorney that worked with ibogaine and I said I want you to develop an anti patent strategy so that nobody could ever patent any use for MDMA and so we have done that and so there's no use paths really unless somebody can think of some new weird use that nobody's ever thought of before but Ronald Reagan did something that I appreciate one thing and in September of 84 he signed the law that provided incentives for developing drugs that are off patent and these incentives are called data exclusivity so that means that no one can use your data it's a marketed generic in the US for five years in Europe it's ten years somebody else could generate their own data it doesn't it's not like a patent or anything like that but chances are we will be of the only ones likely to sell MDMA for PTSD for this period of five years this period of data exclusivity and if you end up doing studies in pediatric populations you get an extra six months teen exclusivity and nobody can apply for generic until it this five and a half years is over it takes at least six months for the FDA to review the application so chances are we're going to have six years of data exclusivity ten years in Europe and so this is what our structure is so we've created the public benefit curve so we're trying to model a new way to market drugs a new way to market pharmaceutical drugs selling MDMA for a profit is not something that can stay inside the nonprofit because it should be taxable and eventually depending on how many therapists there are it could be a fair amount of money and so it has to be in a for-profit company that we sell MDMA but one of the things that you hear about people's concerns about the legalization of marijuana is we don't want big alcohol big tobacco getting involved now we see coca-cola and all these companies are talking about cannabis infused drinks and so the concern is you have the for-profit profit maximizing behind psychedelics or behind marijuana and there's going to be a lot of negative externalities for their while some companies are making money and so I don't think all companies act like that I would say that I don't think compass pathways that's for profit for psilocybin is going to like that but the new bottle for us is the public benefit corporation which is a modification of capitalism there's several thousand of these companies and they permit you to maximize public benefit not profit and so we've created the public benefit corporation that will sell mmm a that does our research but it's a hundred percent owned by the nonprofit and so there's no private gain people make donations to Maps they get a tax deduction Maps invests in the public benefit Corp the public benefit clerk will then make him do main to medicines sell it for profit a reasonable profit not an enormous profit and will then reinvest that money in other research according to the mission of maps so that's our big picture we've come a long way this was Oprah in 2001 and MTV MDMA supposedly causing holes in the brain we started changing the narrative this was the piece drug in the Washington Post and then Oprah ten years after in Oh magazine permitted one of her senior writers to do a story on MDMA and they actually take MDMA with an underground therapist and write about it in the magazine and it's just like one sentence it's illegal but the rest was how much she learned from the experience and this was the graphic which was MDMA as a magic pill it's pro MDMA propaganda but at least we've made progress from holes in the brain and this was one of my favorite articles recently Lucy and the sky doctors say marijuana that went medical in mainstream our psychedelics next and they said as the marijuana debate shows a dude shifts that barely seemed possible can sometimes become inevitable and I think that's where we're at with psychedelics we've had massive amount of media and so I'm going to now play you a short clip from Fox News just to give you a according to a new study soldiers with PTSD using the illegal drug known as MDMA or ecstasy cured the condition within weeks this is key because I don't think I've ever seen the word cured in a highfalutin medical journal usually it significantly improves but never it cures now the study was small 26 patients but the message is big when a substance has a real effect meaning it changes you it also frightens people drugs like ecstasy are illegal because they work and when things work they are hijacked for other purposes to have fun for example and then people die from taking too much and that's where the law breaks in and bans it this has happened to many substances that could have helped millions of people just decades ago MDMA showed real promise in psychotherapy then it got banned but times are changing we realize it's absurd to punish a substance and a patient because the substance has potential for abuse instead let scientists test them on various hard to treat illnesses you want a crazy example try botulinum and toxin it's a substance that's deadly yet instead of reporting its lethality newscasters shoot it into their faces when used wisely it's poison other drugs like Special K are now being tested on depression pots also being tried on PTSD as well so with scientific study comes progress and relief so why not send a drug down that path instead of leaving it on the street it's the choice of the patient if you use veterans people have an innate sense Democrats and Republicans that we owe it to them yeah so it's a great strategy like if you just did this is a study of depressed IT workers no sorry workers how damaging it is to somebody and have the terror the or especially also the suicides yes okay so yeah I agree with this one thing I think that could happen because of this study and the concern about it being misused and abuse it's the possibility of new delivery devices so for example right if you find out that it's something that works for a patient with PTSD of a veteran is there something like an implant yeah something that where the doctor is in charge of it and there's a lot of new innovations like that happening and Scott got Lee who is the FDA Commissioner under President Trump is really forward-thinking in this regard so it's possible that something could actually happen I hope so while they're looking at all sorts of drugs that we've always been taught the 70s like when we used to watch dragnet remember every drug was bad said every now look at these things because they see they have potential for many illnesses yeah I mean marijuana is they have a cutting edge of this and again it's it's older people who find its pain relief the annexation and I think it's lots of people who are voters and so I think you've seen the country change on marijuana in a radical way in our lifetime while they're voting November 2016 get through the story says no not at all this is Association for psychedelic studies rice which was created in 1986 after and the MA or ecstasy had been banned exact so I don't know so then I thought what some were these people supporters of ecstasy that why they were green I think that there was a group of psychotherapists who were really really angry when they were a valuable tool was taken from them and I can't remember the guys in charge do bruh ticked off that the government stepped in and but you know it's interesting to me that you know previously with the most concerns what I said oh no absolutely no no no but now given the veterans needs because it's a crisis for the veterans all of a sudden the concerns like oh yeah let's try and I think that's that was the key I think Kimberly what do you have yeah I think that you know this is part of the overall you know complex problem that we have facing veterans those that are coming home so many more of them surviving injuries otherwise that would have been life threatening or ending a TBI to my brain injury the depression anxiety the homelessness the things that come with serving being away families broken off it's it's very difficult but I think there is definitely a genuine interest in trying to do the best for men and women that serve and part of that would be allowing them maybe exposure to some of their different types of remedies or drugs or therapies that might be beneficial to them so many of them can seek you know the help of the VA as an you know last resort I think that's why we really need to do something about it but in somebody very strong and great their to do a wonderful job for the veterans and you know Jessie do you ever think you'd be doing a pro ecstasy segment on FoxNews LSD was used in the breweries in the 50s in the 60s in small clinical trials to treat alcoholism and PTSD and depression and that it was banned because people would abuse it and now it's getting a second look because of this the brain scanning imagery is so much more detailed you can see if it's MDMA or a small dosage of LSD what effect that has on the brain and it gives the scientists and the medical professional is a more accurate read on what it's actually accomplishing I think every option should be on the table if it's a therapy dog if it's psychotherapy a hyperbaric chambers medical marijuana MDMA let's get it all fixed and something that's taboo shouldn't prevent doctors from ecstasy can kill young people they go to these parties rain [Laughter] just goes to show you once again the men and women that serve that are the bravest to try other remedies and treatments are going to help other people right exactly what would you do for your family remember that's the point you know so we've clearly got bipartisan support and so because we started late I have just a few more minutes I know it's 9:00 but what I want to talk about now really is just what could go wrong and this will be very brief but I think it's really important so one thing that could go wrong is we could the advocates could be very arrogant and think we know best and here's what was said about Timothy Leary in 1961 this was a critique of the Harvard psilocybin project just at the end is how to prevent the absorption of one's own thought processes from creating social withdrawal insensitivity impulsivity and an unrealistic sense of Nicias I think we that is a danger particularly I think more from ketamine than from other things the other psychedelics so we have to be careful we have to be how long what else could go wrong is the backlash you know the return to the law and order and the drug war escalation and as I said before LSD was a symbol of cultural rebellion Timothy Leary was the most dangerous man in America the Beatles took much LSD and were protesting Vietnam but there's this quote from Eric Minh this was an incredible quote in the interview we knew we couldn't make it illegal to be either against the war black but by getting the public to associate the hippies with marijuana and blacks with heroin and then criminalizing both heavily we could disrupt those communities we could arrest their leaders rate their home to break up their meetings and vilify them night after night on the evening news did we know we were lying about the drugs of course we did all right but drugs as a symbol of the counterculture is no longer really what people think about that was then you know we've got as I said our seniors our DEA official was working with us the aging of the baby boomers not all baby boomers have dropped out and lived on grow soybeans yeah we have Steve Jobs the creator of the most wealthiest company in the history of the world Apple acknowledges his use of LSD so we've gone from Woodstock to Steve Jobs people are changing their minds about psychedelics through ketamine you know ketamine is now being used for depression according to the former head of the National semental Health recent data suggests ketamine given intravenously may be the most important breakthrough an antidepressant treatment in decades that's changing people's attitudes we did receive five and a half million dollars from a Bitcoin donor who was prescribed ketamine off-label to treat borderline personality disorder and he says in fact they came up with the idea for the pineapple fund during a ketamine IV as I started regaining motivation to make an impact on the world he gave away 55 billion dollars worth of bitcoins within three and a half months and we managed to get five and a quarter million dollars from him and part of that was because when he was under the influence of ketamine he wished that he would have been given therapy too he felt that he was kind of on his own and he thought that if he had been given emotional support he could have made more even more progress and when he found out that we were doing mdma-assisted psychotherapy he said that's exactly it's the combination of the drug and psychotherapy he said the combination of the substance but therapy has the most impact my experience with ketamine is closely linked to my support of MDMA PTSD research and this issue of the maps bulletin has a longer article from pine about why he decided to create the pineapple fund and he gave us million then he gave mashing gram so it's no longer anymore and you may or psilocybin is going to produce counterculture rebels the concerns are more about sending the wrong message to children this is the sensible students for sensible drug policy I love this have you talked to your parents about drugs and take the pledge to have the talk this of course is mimicking the anti-drug propaganda and you know the concern is catalyzing non-medical use we haven't seen that from marijuana in marijuana legalization of medical marijuana states there's not been an increase in in use by young people and to deal with young people having difficult experiences we've created the zendo project and I think well even more further these parents concerns about their kids as we're being required by FDA to do Studies and Pediatrics populations once we get em do you may approve as an adult we are being required to work with adolescents with PTSD adolescents were being required to go even younger so if it can work with octopi they could work with kids who don't necessarily have a lot of verbal skills but who have been traumatized so I think that it's mainly the worry is what do parents think about their kids and that's what we have to focus on as the likely cause for backlash another thing that could go wrong is we could be burning that building bridges and some of the bridges are to the right wing so we received a million dollars from Rebecca Mercer from the Mercer Family Foundation for those of you who may not know they were the main funders of Trump and Steve Danon and they owned a Cambridge analytic Oh which was a disgraceful situation impacting our election and also their minority stockholders and Breitbart but they're caring about veterans and so we received a million dollars over four years from Rebecca Mercer for our work and I thought that this was absolutely incredible to try to solidify our move forward and so I got a fair amount of criticism for taking this money from Rebecca Mercer so I really think we have to build bridges we have to reach across political divides and it's the New York Times article that reported on our study and veterans was the one that got the Fox News it was the day before the Fox News article and in the fact in the New York Times article they had a sentence about Rebecca Mercer donating a million dollars and reading that gave them the permission to be so positive about it and kimberly guilfoyle the person who was talking at the end she's now in a romantic relationship with Donald Trump jr. so I think we've got bipartisan support this was Jonathan Becky on the right hand he was one of the veterans in our study this was at a conservative conference with Steve Bannon Steve Madden was also a veteran he's now sympathetic with what we're doing and psilocybin as I mentioned was given breakthrough therapy just recently so bipartisan support has really resulted in a lot of support but we should not burn bridges with the for-profit efforts that are coming in to develop psychedelics I think that the last time I was here in this room it was a conference about I came here to be attacked in person some have staff were reluctant to be here without me because people are saying why should we work with a for-profit company so work with means that we share information we don't own any stock in compass pathways we're not connected that way but we believe that as a nonprofit organization our job is to share information with the public freely and if somebody wants to use it we want to help them use it to make drugs into medicines we want to help you Sona which is the nonprofit company trying to make psilocybin into medicine we're willing to help compass pathways and I think they're doing good work I don't think we should say that they're evil or or they have Peter Thiel is one of their donors so they're being attacked on the behalf of its guilt by association but let's I'll just say let us watch what they do and see how it turns out and my belief is that they are going to do incredible on a good in changing attitudes of the mainstream and they will bring these drugs to market I think sooner than you soso you so know will and will help depressed patients so I don't think we should be burning bridges with either the right-wing or with for-profit companies what could go wrong is a lack of diversity I think that's a real big problem of the hundred and seven people that were in our phase two study all of them were white I was surprised at that because a lot of veterans are African Americans and I thought a bunch would apply but they didn't happen and so now we're working with Monica Williams who is an expert on racial trauma and so and we're also going to be getting a grant we haven't got it finally confirmed but we're going to be getting a grant I believe from the open society foundation from George Soros for a special training for therapist of color and so we're going to do what we can and then what could go wrong post approval problems well I think the main area there is going to be patients that have bad outcomes either patients that have been treated by therapist that are not properly trained that we're going to try to avoid that by properly training them or patients that end up having sex with their therapists because that's a big issue well that's one of the reasons not the mean that's one of the reasons why we have two therapists a male-female team to further create a sense of safety it doesn't work all the time but but I think that we have to be very careful how we scale this out because initially whether we get to continue this or not will depend on the first bunch of patients so again this is about not maximizing profits but about maximizing public benefit and to make sure that once it's really made into a medicine that the therapists are qualified and that we're paying good attention to making sure that the treatments are good and we're going to have complaint systems and patient Bill of Rights and all sorts of stuff we're going to do to try to ensure quality we have to be a little bit careful about how we advertise ethical compliance informs about marketing you can imagine all sorts of different kind of ads are you over well ask your doctor of MDMA therapy is right for you this is the ad 4c is ready for a new career it's like you know like insist on therapy of course this was graphically manipulated this is that I don't think they're actually doing this quite yet but how long do you think before you're actually doing this okay drink ayahuasca so we have to be gonna get careful with our public presentations but if we do it well it can become more than a dream and one day I will have my license I'll be a psychedelic therapist questions okay yes you know that a business model for that and one of the major challenges they face is how to get reimbursement when there's no insurance system yet and you mentioned also the goal of greater diversity yeah which can make it even more difficult for them to provide services to do this yeah to be able to pay for yeah yeah okay well first of all think about all the people that go down to Peru or Brazil for ayahuasca and those are mostly more or less healthy people but they're all paying for it themselves then think about all the ibogaine clinics you know ibogaine is illegal in the US but legal in most countries and so there's a begain clinics in Mexico in Canada and England all throughout and people are paying for it themselves so a big part of it I think will be patient self pay but the other part is that we're gonna try to find donors who are willing to subsidize the cost for particular populations so for example we just got it turned out to be it was in stock it meant to be hundred thousand was ninety four thousand dollars before we were able to sell it and it's from a woman who wants us to supplement expanded access in North Carolina and South Carolina we're working with other people who are trying to find Mega Millions to supplement the treatment of veterans so I think that what we'll do that is if these grants materialized they'll they'll go then to pay the therapists but I think that we also really have to be negotiating as soon as possible and we already are starting this with insurance companies to try to help cover it I think that it would be good for some people if they're willing you know so in our training program right now in the supervision study so we pay for that so we pay for everything for therapists for research but for expanded access we're going to require the new male/female Co therapy team to work with their first patient for free while we give them supervision on the theory that they're still learning and that everybody gets something out of it so that all the new teams that will train at least one person will be trained for will be treated for free but I think you know you've put your finger on that is the crucial issue not only how do we pay for expanded access but how do we get it so insurance covers it afterwards and so what we've been looking at and this is a little bit interesting from the data from phase two is that most of the drop in the PTSD symptoms is after the first section first MDMA session then let's say that some are like 60% of the drop and then around 25% of the drop in symptoms is after the second session and then 15% or so is after the third session so these are just the averages there's some people that are high on dissociation those people tend to need more therapy but our standard model is going to move from three sessions to two sessions we should dramatically reduce the cost and also leave people a lot better so our Israeli study which was only 10 people was only two sessions our first study in the US was about nine people with two sessions before we changed it to three so I think that well think of it as a standard model of two sessions and those people who need it will go more but that will reduce the costs up and I think the other big thing and this is where CIS comes in is that we talk about a male/female team a two-person team but one of them needs to have a license but the other does not the other can be a student so ideally what we're going to have is two-person teams where one person is either working for free to get their required hours to get licenses or they're working at a very low rate compared to the other person who has the license so I think that that's where we'll find more and more students who will be willing to do this to get the experience what we're doing the training in the maps how does that go together and what do we need to continue to well so in in the CIS program you know for training therapists there's so we've sort of imported our week-long training watching videotapes so everybody who goes through the CIS program automatically has will have done that piece of our training but there's still need to be the section this the experience where they take MDMA themselves in a therapeutic setting so Janice and I were talking earlier today about a protocol that we can eventually develop so that C is can be giving in a legal protocol people can receive MDMA and and psilocybin and other students will be sitting with them differently things like that so the other thing is that we're now we've trained all the therapists we need to train for Phase three for FDA we're starting phase three in November and we think it will run for two years now our next training the one eye we just had was for European therapists we have another one that's probably going to be the end of January in Israel where the Israelis have approved expanded access so we're going to be training a bunch of therapists for expanded access and a few more therapists for Europe and then in March we'll start training for expanded access and every two months we'll have this this week-long training but the CIS people have already been through that and so the backlog for us is getting giving them via made a therapist we only have a few sites where that is taking place and one of the things that makes me super happy is that we have a site in Boulder Colorado and a site in Charleston but George Greer he was an early pioneer of the work with MDMA and he has just retired and he said that now he's retired he only wants to do things that he would do for fun not for money and I said would you be willing to set up a site in Santa Fe to give him he made a therapist as part of their training and he said yes I will do it but only if you don't pay me so I said all right we will not pay and so we're expanding the number of sites to give MDMA the therapist as per their training and then the challenge is going to be that expanded access is a particular protocol so we have to get it approved by FDA which is not going to be a problem because of those meetings I already said but we have to get that and then we'll have the ability for these teams to work with one patient under supervision and then they'll be able to start treating patients on their own so that's basically how but we have 6,000 people therapists who've signed up on our website to be notified for when our training program starts and we think that the maximum number that we can have in the residential tour the in-person is 60 so it's going to be a long time so that's our key limitation now is how do we scale up the training program to get more therapists trained and so they can only come from people that have actually worked with MDMA with PTSD patients so we're looking at all of the Phase two therapists and then the Phase three therapists and out of them will will grow more trainers so we're in the process now trying to train more trainers and it'll also be exponential it will start slow but then we're so I think that there could eventually be you know ten or twenty thousand it's like you know therapists or more hi I'm Marita I work at maps you can at the back table in the back too we have some additional information about the requirements for the therapy training and the requirements for expanded access we'll also be hosting a webinar on Wednesday November 7 called how to become legal and give a therapist it's $25 for the webinar or 135 for the series of seven so definitely more information will be available there and it's from the people who are managing the therapy training program do you have any ballpark figure as to how much a dose of a medium name well we're talking about a hundred fifty dollars for a lot of freedom something like that and there would be you know two or three sessions something like that I was afraid we're going to be talking about those oh no see that the problem is well let me just say this so in back in 1985 I had a kilogram of MDMA made by Dave Nichols at Purdue and it was $4,000 for a kilogram actually he got a kilogram and a half yield and that's the MDMA we're still using today so 33 years later this MDMA is an extremely stable molecule and it's just almost exactly as pure as it was before however getting medical grade MDMA which is not any pure but getting it in the final dosage form first off making it and secondly putting into capsules is well over fifty thousand dollars fifty to a hundred thousand dollars a kilogram at least initially because there's all sorts of stability studies analytical method validation so we're thinking it's going to cost us somewhere in the neighborhood of 50 $60 for a dome which is outrageous because you know underground chemists right now you can get it for a few bucks and it's not necessarily any better what we're going to have but it's going to be legal and done in certain ways so no we're talking about well let me just say one very quick thing which is that under the influence of ketamine I had a influence I had an experience of watching Hiller give a speech it was very scary and I was trying to just say how do we like think about him or how do we how do we try to do therapy on the other you know and I and and I saw him giving a speech to like hundred thousand people in like the Nuremberg rallies and I saw the way in which all these people look at the Heil Hitler salute sort of he would push it out and then all of them would be back and I'd be like from the many to the one and would you this ping-pong ball kind of ever-escalating energy but what I realized under this experience was that there was no people have to be willing there's no way that I could you know that anybody could really change Hitler if you didn't want to but what about all these people that are giving away their power and so I think that what comes from was that is that we have to really affect millions of people mass mental health you can never stop the lunatics that will want to so what that means is a low price well it gets back around to that is that we're about maximizing mass public mental health not profit so that's yeah i am i saw this up earlier about can you hear me yeah i just couldn't see okay yeah you had a list up of potential expanded access sites in europe yeah well those are phase three sites yeah so what is this what is this list based on they do they already exist or well these are therapists from those sites have come to our training so what we've done is what similar to the fda where we had this special protocol assessment process where you negotiate the protocol designs so we've done that with the european medicines agency and we've come to agreement there but the difference there is that in the u.s. you negotiate with fda and then you can do the study in any state you don't have to have a special review except for Greece's debt but California is the only place that you have another review body but in Europe you have to get approval by the European Medicines Agency for the design but you also then have to get approval by each individual country so we are now in the process of negotiating with the different countries but we have teams that were already training from those sites that's what that and those are not expanded access sites those would be Phase three sites expanded access sites will be those and more as well and it'll probably take us till the end of middle to end of 2019 to figure out exactly where we were going to be able to go forward in Europe I'm curious about environmental considerations and as the synthesis of MDMA is increasing what that looks like technologically yeah that's a great question I wondered about that myself and so I went to the company that was making the MDMA for us and I said you know where do you get this and as there are you destroying all sorts of plants and stuff and they said we get it from petroleum so it has nothing to do with plants at all they take petroleum they make all sorts of organic molecules out of it it all starts with oil basically so there's gonna be no entire negative other than getting the oil but yeah it's not like with ayahuasca you know there is concerns about where the plants that make ayahuasca the same is true with ibogaine with the iboga roads it only grows yeah but but but with him you may there's not going to be any of that but that's a really good concern yeah what do you think about these statewide ballot initiatives that are coming forward yeah so when I my first thought about these statewide ballot initiatives WI psilocybin is I wish they would just put the money into research because the ballot initiatives are not going to pass and really what we're trying to say here is that the science has been blocked for 50 years by politics and we wanted to get the politics out of it so we could do the science going to say and the state initiative let's do by political means and not do the science I think because it was so blocked with marijuana I'm sympathetic with state medical marijuana initiatives but now we're not blocked with psilocybin we're not blocked with MDMA and so I just had a meeting last week actually with the woman who's in charge of the drug policy Alliance Brianna and so what she said is that if you look at the polling for psilocybin medicalization legalization initiatives or you look at decriminalization of all drugs there's more support for decriminalization of all drugs so that the initiative should be about D crimper all drugs rather than making an exception I think for psilocybin so I'm generally not sympathetic if people want to spend our money on that that's okay I'm not against it I think the drug war you know these drugs should not be braving it so not theoretically but I think strategically it doesn't make sense and I would much rather they say yeah we've got a chance to really embed in our society this has a medicine with insurance coverage through doing the research I'd rather they put the money that was that name Doran darling [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: EMfoQTVeeEA (https://youtu.be/EMfoQTVeeEA) ===

[Music] so Rick welcome back it's great to be here we have a lot to discuss things are happening in your world but Before we jump into some of the psychedelic research and updates I really wanted to ask you a question about the vision that you had so when you are I think 18 years old which is how many years ago 48 years 48 years ago you had a vision for the healing power of psychedelics yeah you had a Center in Santa Cruz a lot of people thought you were a little crazy including me when I first heard about it like 10 or 15 years ago like they do why that's just kind of weird so how did you trust that vision when there was no data there was no science there were very few people who probably believed in you and yet you intuitively knew and experientially might have known that something was here and I was just curious how did you listen to that was that a hard process or was it life just saying you have a mission go for it it was a hard process but there was some data there was some science so I had Stan Grof research and research there was a thousands of papers actually in the 50s and 60s about psychedelics that were talking about their role in the treatment of addiction in the helping people who had cancer who were dying and mechanisms of action the LSD research actually helped in the discovery of the serotonin system and the neurotransmitters in the 50s and 60s so there was an enormous amount of data but what had happened is that there was also this leakage you could say from the scientific community into popular culture okay psychedelics became wrapped up with the counterculture movement there was also the underground work with the CIA and the MKULTRA the mind control research but what animated me was having this incredibly loving family growing up in a way at the most the peak of American power and being all the different ways that I think I could feel confident so American exceptionalism I believe yeah white a male I'm the firstborn child I'm the chosen people Jewish I had my family had resources mm-hmm so I had pretty much everything going for me and a loving family but I was educated about the Holocaust which traumatized me and made me really think that you could have everything but you could still die because of prejudice and because of hatred and dehumanization the next step for me was the Cuban Missile Crisis and the feeling that the whole world could go up and flames and then was the Vietnam War where I was one of the last years of the lottery and was a draft resister anticipating going to jail so I was been animated by fear and anxiety of the unconscious of the the cruelty of the human heart when we dehumanize others and I felt like I was for generations permission to do this that you know from refugees coming into America in 1880s and the early 1900s to the American dream being able to make a new life in a new world and be successful and then helping me to study deeper threats yeah so when I was 18 and I was the first of four children to go to college and I started doing LSD and I started feeling like the ego dissolution that you get the sense of connection so you're losing your individual sense but you're gaining this sense of the collectivity that we're all part of each other uh-huh and so I felt that that fundamental sense of unity and connection was the antidote you know if you genocide to hatred to all different disconnection from the environment and that if more people can have this sense of our common unity then when we looked up at at all the different ways that were different that we would appreciate instead of be fearful and so I was taking a veles the feeling that this was a path forward and I misunderstood I thought the more LSD you take the faster you take if only were that easy you need some time to assimilate I heard ya know out of my despair I went to the guidance counselor at college and I said helped me with my LSD trips now this was 1972 and the guidance counselor was sympathetic uh-huh and handed me a book to read which was realms of the human unconscious observations from LSD research by Stan Grof Wow the book wasn't even published till 1975 and he had my guidance counselor had a manuscript copy in 1972 Wow and it was reading that book that that's really where it all came together because Stan was talking about realms of the human unconscious about the mystical sense of connection but he was doing it through a scientific lens not so much a cultural religious lens but through a scientific mind as a psychiatrist I believe right yeah he was a psychiatrist from the Czech Republic he's 88 right now and still going strong yeah but what really impressed me about that book was that it was all about healing it was not endless philosophy or speculations about consciousness it was all the reality check of can we help people be more whole be more human overcome their fears and anxieties feel their purpose right so it had the reality check of therapy and reading that book and seeing that the visions and the idealism of the 60s had crashed and burned yeah that Nixon was president and Leary was the most dangerous man in America and all these drugs were criminalized and all the research was being shut down all over the world and I felt like I was about to be arrested to go to jail for being a draft resister and so it was this despair from the world and I thought what where is their hope yeah yeah I thought it's in psychedelics it's not psychedelics is just a tool towards this deeper mystical right it's deeper sense of unity and connection and that's where his mysticism is what we need and that's an access to mysticism yeah and and this was confirmed for me in 1983 eleven years later when I was in touch with the Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations who wrote this book Robert Muller was his name it was called New Genesis shaping a global humanity and just like after I read Stan Groff's book I wrote a letter to him and he responded and I did a seminar with Stan and Joan Halifax a week after they were married up in man ranch I also reached out to the Assistant Secretary General of the UN because his thesis in this book was that we have the United Nations to mediate conflicts between countries but a lot of those conflicts are religious based yeah and that we need a global spirituality and the cover of his book was a picture of the Earth from space kind of sense that the astronauts are sharing with us as well and so he didn't mention anything about psychedelics and so I wrote him a letter I felt like I was like a sailor you know from a shipwreck in the world on this island and I put a little note in the bottle and I sent it out there and it kind of hindered to him and he he actually wrote me back was what I was saying was every new way of killing gets unlimited money yeah from the militaries of the world and if the theory is that we need mysticism basically as the antidote to fundamentalism that if we need that if the psychedelics are genuine spirituality or pseudo spiritual either way we should be studying that yeah I asked him if he would open the door to help us open the door to psychedelic research and he replied and he said yes and he introduced me to a series of mystics around the world brother David Stein Barrasso yeah Vanya Palmer's rabbi Zalman Schachter all of these people and I of course read between the lines saying send them MDMA which I did and then they took it to aid meditation uh-huh and reported back to Robert Miller so that was the confirmation of the theory of change of it that if we really can help people have this move through all the traumas the layers that they are traumatized and don't really see people for who they are but through the lens of trauma and multi-generational trauma yeah and if we can help them be spiritual eyes dat the same time yeah so I felt psychedelics is suppressed and I have the luxury of this support from my family yeah so at age 18 I said this is gonna be what I do with my life Wow and it's kept seeming like a good idea but the other part is I learned an incredible lesson of love for my parents so I'm the first of four to go to college and I middle of my freshman year of college I call up my parents and I'm saying I want to drop out of college okay I want to study LSD and I want you guys to pay for it and so that was a little bit turbulent yeah they sent me to a psychiatrist okay which I did go to one time the psychiatrist I it was gonna give me all these tests and I was great you'll tell me who I am I'll learn from all these tests I can't wait to see the results of these tests and the psychiatrist said we can't show you the results of these tests this is like an x-ray into your psyche and I have to interpret it for you yeah so I said if I'm not gonna be permitted to see these tests I'm not gonna take yeah then I was oppositional peer when I my parents finally decided that that they would help and what they said was that it's a mistake we think you're making a big mistake but we think you're a stubborn guy and if we don't help you it's gonna take you longer to realize that's a mistake and then you won't want to admit it because who wants to say their parents are right yeah and the ultimate lesson of love my dad's and mother said was that maybe maybe you know what you need to do Wow this right slightest shred of doubt maybe you need to know you know what you need to do and so they said they would help me even though they thought it was a mistake that's so that is an act of love that yeah actually I'd say it took me about 15 years to convince them mistake wow that is a beautiful story and it just shows to the power of community and the power of love and the power of support mentors or supporters yeah and my parents were very political also Saul Alinsky was my father's hero so they knew that I was animated by this fear of the world and they also shared that yeah sense that things are out of control Einstein said our technology has exceeded our humanity mmm and I think that's what yeah we're all facing that's why I wanted to drop out of college I felt like my mind had been developed but my emotions my spirituality was underdeveloped got it kind of and so where are we at today in the in the research and I definitely so where how do what's the status of things is since you're here last year we've made a lot of progress since yes here okay progress big updates it seemed relevant to share yeah so in the history of maps so I started maps as a nonprofit psychedelic pharmaceutical company in 1986 so worth now 34 years we've raised about eighty million dollars of donations and so we're doing right now roughly fifty five million dollar experiment which is to see if mdma-assisted psychotherapy for post-traumatic stress disorder can make it through the FDA can become a prescription medicine so we are now about a month and a half or so away from looking at the data from our first of two phase three studies so you do preclinical work then you do phase one studies basic safety studies with healthy volunteers Phase two is where you start working with the patients and you start trying to figure out what's your treat meant what's your dose who does this work with who doesn't wear with it's all about planning for Phase three so since last year we have now almost completed enrollment of our first of two phase three studies and in in April probably we're gonna have a sneak peek at the data and unblinded datum I'm gonna show it to you this time well I'm not gonna see the data all I'm gonna get is a number okay a number is you don't need to add anybody to your study to get statistical significance or okay you need to add a certain number of people so we will know if we're gonna succeed how long it's gonna take how much it's gonna cost sometime in April or so okay and so the other kinds of progress we have been trying for 30 years to start research inside the Veterans Administration Wow again the idea is mainstreaming psychedelics it's the the fundamental I think the mistake of the 60s you could say was self identifying as a counterculture and then you encouraged this turn out drop-in yeah now we're very close to having approval in two different VA systems one of our like one of the psychiatrists that I've been talking to that's interested in going through our training program is a military psychiatrist at Walter Reed he focuses on PTSD he was just in the White House with the person that President Trump has assigned to prevent veteran suicides Wow and he told her about MDMA research and now she wants to have a meeting Wow it's and sit since we were here last year at we spoke at the International Association of Chiefs of Police and so now in a couple weeks I'm speaking to a hundred police officers who are part of what are called critical incident stress management teams when the police are involved in shootings we have a police psychotherapist going through our training to learn to give MDMA to other police I've often felt like the police or the Predators and I'm the prey right so for me to start feeling it's very guilty plea yeah and now I really understand how difficult of a job yeah yeah we also have a veteran who's attempted suicide five times and not of despair volunteered for our study and now he's doing really well and he's now working as a consultant for us to reach out to Republicans well so he's been hanging out at the Trump Hotel [Laughter] conversations with Giuliani with so the support is coming from every corner of the population it sounds like it's not just like a liberal thing or a badass thing yeah we have managed because of the compassion for people that have suffered in the war or women who've been sexually abused so we have support from Rebecca Mercer whose family supported Trump and Bannon and owned Cambridge analytic and much of Breitbart we have support from Elizabeth Koch from the Koch family who she says she's a political and not a conservative mm-hm and also all the way to George Soros who funded a project to help us train therapists of color I don't think you got both of them funding me pretty much anything together as far as I know well we actually yes it's amazing the Rockefellers have supported us but in Congress AOC actually put out a bill for psychedelic research to facilitate psychedelic research and Matt gates from Florida is one of the main supporters of Trump in the house and they co-sponsored the bill house that we've got crazy yeah the bill didn't didn't make it okay but but just yeah because of the way in which we've been reaching out to people who are suffering who are highly valued by all parts of the political spectrum it's been yeah and it works it works one of the things I've been criticized the most or actually from I would say our core supporters is taking money from Rebecca Mercer mhm and my approach has been that we need to build bridges not burn them yeah and there are yeah yeah I think that's that's so important and because of that we've had really positive coverage on Fox News Breitbart and all the military websites yeah it's actually coming and I think that we've got a very good chance of medicalizing MDMA other groups are moving behind with psilocybin I began as a drug that's our one of our priorities for the treatment of opiate addiction again there was areas where it as a nonprofit yeah crazy yeah we're doing it so it's nonprofit pharma and how many drugs have every come made it through the system is a non problem because most of them are relatively few so when I started maps in 1986 I was blissfully ignorant of the fact that no drug had ever been made into a medicine by a non-profit but the first one that went through that way was 1999 and it was the abortion pill ru-486 so it's controversial drug abandoned by Pharma and anything else that they did would be boycotted and that was funded by john d rockefeller the third the population council warren buffett was the main funder okay and the Pritzker family and others were donors and so that validated the whole con it's possible yeah raise that money yeah and now we have there's a few drugs since then we have a woman on our Board of Directors who's recently joined named Victoria Hale she worked at the FDA then she worked in for-profit pharma she got disillusioned and then she started non and she got a hundred fifty million dollars from the Gates Foundation for drugs for India for Paris oh nice Victoria Hale it was one world Institute and then Susan Buffett Warren Buffett's first wife called her and said do you want to develop low-cost contraceptives okay round the world and she got the 62 million or so from the buffer so she did both of those efforts and then it was stressful it was a lot of challenges and so she started going to ayahuasca ceremonies started helping her now she wants to make ayahuasca into a medicine in a nonprofit content oh wow yeah and you also said something which I had never heard before but that so you do it you've been doing it for trauma healing and that you're also working on israeli-palestine group to create can you say more about create better relations or better understanding yeah there's trauma yeah so we're focused both on individual patients for healing we're doing a bit of work in couples therapy but rich we're at large it's about reconciliation between opposing countries or cultures Wow and so there's a lot of the same principles uh-huh that from couples therapy or individual therapy to cultural therapy so it turns out that there are a small number relatively of Israelis and Palestinians that are getting together to do ayahuasca and to do MDMA and this is quite at the same time or basically though the MDMA is to help them overcome their own traumas and the kind of built-in hatred and fear of the other and then once they've been through that then they go into these mix spaces with ayahuasca Oh got it okay and then eventually we may be doing work with group well we're working the first year is a three year project we have all the funding we need for it right the first year was interviews of all these people why they're doing it and one of the most poignant stories was an Israeli soldier in the ayahuasca ceremony talking about how when they played Arabic prayer music wow it always stimulated fear in him but now he was able to see it in a different way and he said all the differences melted away like I'm a Jew and you're a Muslim I'm an Israeli or Palestinian oppressing who all these things melted away and it was just this shared humanity Wow and so the next two years are going to be taking a group of these people outside of the area of conflict probably to Spain and starting to do more controlled studies with measures about how you see the other you know how you can cooperate certain measures of trust and then having them have these ayahuasca experiences and then also eventually a group to have an MDMA experiences Wow and your experience with all this is it stays right and you you follow up six months later a year later because some arguments would be like oh yeah that's a great experience in that moment you feel really loving and and then it wears off and then you go back to your default mode Network yeah can you talk a little bit about what you're noticing over time the stickiness of an experience yeah well I say that's actually the most important question I mean you could have these unusual experiences but do they last what's the impact on your life Houston Smith said there's a difference between a religious experience and a religious life and so the integration is there in part so the experience and this is the same in treatment for people with PTSD that you have these powerful experiences of opening of heal letting out grief and sadness and fear but it's the integration process that's so important to change the baseline got it and so that's the same way in these mixed spaces with these Israelis and Palestinians it's what happens in those moments together but what kind of bonds of friendship and connection do they develop afterwards yeah in our research what we've shown is that we have a two-month follow-up after the last the basically it's three MDMA sessions one month apart each are eight hours long with a male-female Kythera P team interspersed with 12 90-minute non drug psychotherapy sessions okay three for preparation before the first and three for integration after each MDMA session and we show at the two-month follow-up that's the data point that the FDA is gonna look at to compare therapy without MDMA versus therapy with them but the 12-month follow-up is for the insurance companies to show that it lasts and what we show and and this is the essence of our method is we're helping teach people to heal themselves we're not the healers they're the healers we're the midwives we're helping them go through this process and they learn that these feelings that we're so overwhelming to them that they can process them and that they can do that on their own after the drug so the results at two months are actually not even as good as the results at 12 months so they get better over data over time so at the 12-month follow-up 2/3 of chronic severe PTSD patients no longer have PTSD otherwise we'd be on drugs maybe for the rest of their life get chronic PTSD it tends to last I mean people have PTSD an average of around 18 years and so a lot of it from childhood and so it does seem to last yeah and at the same time we've done a three and a half year follow-up which showed that the results were even slightly better not statistically better but and then we're now doing all of our phase two patients some of whom have been treated 15 years ago so we're doing a long long term because the key point is that once we make it into a medicine we need insurance to cover it yes and it's more expensive initially than traditional farming medicines because they just give you medicines to take sometimes you have to take them for you know decades but if you add up the cost of that it's way more but what we're saying is that it's not the drug it's the psychotherapy yes the drug assisted psychotherapy so there's an initial expense for the psychotherapy at the beginning God and if it lasts then insurance companies will pay for it so that's it and if you look at over a year or two years this intervention is much more effective and much more cost effective yes yeah yeah and and some people do relapse but this this veteran that I talked about that was helping reach out to Republicans as an example of what how it creates a certain resiliency a certain strength after he was through the treatment he was at a political rally actually as part of four Republican step and he went out to his car and there was somebody that was giving somebody else mouth-to-mouth resuscitation he saw and so he went over to see it what was going on and it was somebody who had been shot in the chest several times by drive-by shooting and he took over to try to help this person and person died in his arms Wow and so you would think that that could be gunshot wounds now that the veteran and he caught luckily he called me and I was on the phone with our lead psychiatrist Michael man over and so he talked to him right then he had a little bit of trouble sleeping that night he was worried as PTSD was gonna come back but he processed it and it didn't not come back Wow so people learn how to be resilient and to face the new stresses of life wow that's amazing and I'm imagining there's a lot of things you're excited about is there one in particular that when we would love to have you back each year to continue to update us is there one in particular that is kind of like really pull to your heart and you think about the that that you're really excited to kind of move forward with yeah well it is this mdma-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD and really trying to make that into a medicine but I'll just give you one personal one story what makes me very excited okay there's a person that's applied to be in the study and it's a police officer and it's a police officer who worked in a child pornography unit well and he's it turns out that he was sexually abused himself as a child and working in this child pornography unit and seeing some of these images and all has read Ramat eyes him so he's now trying to volunteer to be in the study Wow so it's both reaching this us/them divide in these but also helping with an important problem yeah and so that that kind of healing is so important that yeah very oh and you're working with every segment of the population you're not just saying oh let's just work with this segment you can work with the the police officer and whoever else might be involved in a situation it sounds like yeah very being inclusive of where trauma might exist and how to heal it yeah very much so actually somehow or other my sister who's who I've been unable to persuade to do marijuana or Alex as the family members tend to be that way I don't know what it is but yeah but my family but her son is now my nephew is now a police officer Wow and so I feel like now it's part of the family yeah you know the other ring that I've always done about the police and I'm fearful and now there's one in the family and there seems to be a that seems to be the heart of what the vision was at 18 you're circling back around right that vision was how do we have a mystical experience it helps take away the other inor see beyond the other aim there is something our society needs right now it's to that right whatever gets us there mysticism and beyond the other end so I feel like it's so inspiring to hear the this vision that you had and I know it's been a team effort it's always like we've got around 75 people now working for maps all supported by charitable donations we have what we call the refugees from Big Pharma this whole group of women leadership team that run the firm suku of what we're doing in the last 30 seconds is there anything you want to leave us with yeah yeah that that you can have these kind of crazy dreams that send you to a psychiatrist and you're 18 years old things that might seem like they'll never happen that with persistence if the need is there and the idea makes sense even if there's massive opposition over time things can happen and what I've seen now from being a parent now I have children that are 25 23 and 21 that where did the time go you know now they're not home so a 20-year plan or a 30-year plan somehow it doesn't seem very long yeah and I think for those of us that are I I just think I'm incredibly lucky in the sense that in my own lifetime I'm getting to see the change that I'm in work hour and I think that that's very rare most people who work in social change movements it's multi generations yeah you can maybe push the the boulder uphill a little bit but to be able to start doing that and to see the change so that that would be the main message not so much about psychedelics that's just one example but it's about this idea of having this dream and working to make it happen and and the one thing that made it so I didn't burnout is this idea of shifting from happiness from outcomes to effort mmm so if I was constantly like you know it's not working it's not working it's not working I would have burnt out and given it up but I somehow realized because the opposition was so great because I didn't know if it would ever work I couldn't have my happiness dependent on whether it works that's beautiful happiness an effort happiness on and then oh I did a good thing today or I one good conversation then I could go to bed happy that's beautiful I Rick Doblin everybody [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 8c086MzjO9M (https://youtu.be/8c086MzjO9M) ===

Hello, everyone, and welcome. Thank you for joining today's event, Introducing POPLAR, the future of Psychedelics Law, and Regulation. POPLAR is the Project on Psychedelics Law and Regulation, which we launched on June 30th. I'm Mason Marks. I'm a Senior Fellow and the Project Lead of POPLAR. I'm also a law professor at the University of New Hampshire Franklin Pierce School of Law. The Petrie-Flom Center is delighted to bring you this event with generous support from the Saisei Foundation. Before we get to the discussion, I'll mention a few housekeeping items. We welcome audience questions for our panelists, so please submit your questions. Throughout the event, I'll be pulling those questions to pose to our panelists. You may be wondering how do I submit those questions. The best way is to use the Zoom Q&A feature. If you scroll to the bottom of your Zoom window, you'll see a small button marked Q&A. Just type your question there, and I'll be checking that frequently. You're also welcome to submit your questions on Twitter using the hashtag POPLAR. That's hashtag P-O-P-L-A-R. If you do submit a question there, Petrie-Flom staff will be monitoring it, and they'll pull it into the zoom Q&A feature. Ways that you should not try to submit a question include a raise your hand feature on Zoom. We won't be using that today. We've also turned off the chat function so that our panelists can really focus in on the discussion. If you're interested in this event and others like it on health policy, bioethics, biotechnology, and related topics, we encourage you to sign up for the Petrie-Flom Center newsletter and to read our blog, the Bill of Health, which features cutting edge commentary by legal scholars. I want to thank the POPLAR team, especially Laura Chong and Chloe Reichel, for making this event possible. Thank you also to Tim Ferriss and Matt Mullenweg who support POPLAR through the Saisei Foundation. With that, let's launch into the symposium. In about 10 minutes, we'll welcome our keynote speaker, Rick Doblin. But first, we have a very special guest to open the event. US Congressman Earl Blumenauer was a vocal supporter of Oregon's historic Measure 109 which, when approved by voters last November, legalized supervised administration of psilocybin in Oregon. He's also been an advocate for reforming federal cannabis laws, including by removing cannabis from the Controlled Substances List, regulating it, and pardoning federal cannabis-related offenses. While there's a lot of misinformation out there about cannabis and psychedelics, Congressman Blumenauer has been a rational voice for evidence-based legal reforms. That's what POPLAR is about. Educating, addressing misinformation, and supporting science-based psychedelics policies that promote equity and public health. Please join me in welcoming our guest, Congressman Earl Blumenauer. Thank you very much, Mason, for the kind introduction and for the work that you are doing. I'm really excited to have this conversation today and the launch of projects on Psychedelics Law, and Regulation, the POPLAR research initiative. When you combine Health Law Policy, Biotechnology, and Bioethics with the Harvard Law brand, this has the potential to have significant influence in this rapidly changing landscape. It's an area that I've been involved with throughout my public service, starting in the '70s with the decriminalization of cannabis in Oregon. I've continued to work to provide leadership on drug policy reform. I've enjoyed working around the country from Bangor, Maine to Santa Barbara. Part of what gives me such hope is that this movement has not been driven by politicians. It is advocates, it's people in the industry, it's people who have been involved with aspects of medical cannabis for years. I think I was the only politician that was involved with our psilocybin Ballot Measure 109 and an equally significant Ballot Measure 110, where we have drug decriminalization and addiction treatment initiative. We're a pretty blue state, but for reference, that initiative passed by a wider margin than Joe Biden's victory in Oregon. We have powerful examples, particularly the impact of psilocybin that goes back decades. But with the federal government's involvement, it's going to be fun to unpack all of that federal government engagement. But we need more and better research. First and foremost, we need to move beyond the anecdotes that so many of us find compelling when there are real-life examples of people we know have experienced it. But it needs more scientific rigor. We need to fight the hypocrisy with the challenge psychedelics face as legitimate medical treatment, face the old obstacles to research despite being less addictive and having fewer health risks than other drugs freely available, nicotine and alcohol, for instance. The contrast with opioids is stunning. That epidemic has killed thousands, damaged millions of lives, seemingly with few meaningful controls. As I mentioned, I think our advantage is that the American public is ahead of the legislature and other policymakers. They are demonstrating their interest and their support, not just according to public opinion polls, but that support is very powerful on the ground. It's just as advocates are demanding an end to the dated and racist approach. It's responding to broad public support as witnessed by those election results. Here in Oregon, the voters were very busy last year, not just with the psilocybin therapy, a measured and controlled approach, but the Ballot Measure that essentially decriminalized hard drugs and invested much more significant resources for drug treatment here in Oregon using the increased revenues from our marijuana legalization. The measure passed access to psilocybin, established a framework and a law to allow for supervised administration of psilocybin-assisted therapy throughout the state. I think this is a major equity issue. One of the challenges we've had with our failed war on drugs and its misapplication is how it has negatively impacted minorities and marginalized groups. The pandemic has revealed health disparities. We know the disparities in terms of the application of the law. Our psilocybin therapy will allow access to communities historically denied full access to traditional forms of medicine. This is especially important for low-income, communities of color, especially veterans who've tried and failed to receive a relief, for example, PTSD, from other forms of treatment. Many Oregonians feel they could benefit from psilocybin-assisted therapy. It is an issue of equity. It's an issue expanding the toolkit. It's responding to science and the public needs. I'm particularly interested in the potential to unlock revolutionary treatments on mood, anxiety, and substance abuse disorders. This could not come at a more important time. The pandemic not only heightened the disparities in the treatment of health care, but it's had a dramatic impact on the mental and emotional health of Americans. Over two in five adults show symptoms of anxiety or depressive disorders. Here in Oregon, we've seen a major increase in overdose deaths. As we struggle to get through the COVID pandemic, we've got a mental health epidemic where it's clear our approaches have not been adequate. I hope our conversation today in the POPLAR center will help us address critical issues, ensuring equitable access for marginalized communities and, as I mentioned, especially veterans. We want to provide robust funding for additional therapeutic research. I look forward to suggestions for removing red tape and bureaucratic redundancies for drug development and therapy that has dogged us as we work to rationalize our cannabis policies. I want to stress that I think it's very important to respect traditional and sacred use of psychedelics by indigenous communities. Native Americans must not be an afterthought. They have much to teach us, and we have much to respect in that tradition, which has been so abused by the majority of American government. It's a tragic history. This is an important list of challenges. I look forward to your conversation today, the work at the center, and for all of you helping us advance this cause. I promise you, I will do my part, not only assisting in the evolution of the Oregon program, but I plan on bringing this movement to Capitol Hill this year. The same way we develop the foundation for the support of our cannabis work, I want to introduce the results of our work in Oregon and around the country. and I would like your center to be able to help raise awareness on Capitol Hill at this critical time in drug reform to help the federal government catch up to where the rest of America is. I think this is truly the opportunity of a lifeline, and I look forward to working with you to make it a reality. Thank you very much. Thank you so much, Congressman, for your powerful remarks and for your leadership. We're very grateful for you joining us today. [inaudible]. We will now welcome our keynote speaker, Rick Doblin. He's the founder and Executive Director of MAPS, the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies. He founded MAPS in 1986, shortly after the Drug Enforcement Administration added the psychedelic MDMA to Schedule 1 of the controlled substances list. Since then, he's been a leading voice in the destigmatization of MDMA and other psychedelic therapies, working closely with the Food and Drug Administration to make MDMA-assisted therapy and FDA-approved treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder. Thanks to his efforts and others at MAPS, that's nearly a reality. Rick is a graduate of Harvard's Kennedy School, and so it's a pleasure to welcome him home virtually to discuss his important work. Welcome, Rick Doblin. Thank you very much, and thank you, Congressman Blumenauer. it was a very inspiring to hear your opening talk and to how you want to take this further. It's just so exciting to be here with you today and to have this topic, being something that's being looked at in a careful way. So I'm going to talk about psychedelics from legal to illegal to medicines to legal again. Stan Grof has talked about, "Psychedelics are to the study of the mind what the microscope is to biology and the telescope is to astronomy." Stanislav is, at 90 years old now, a leading LSD researcher. We all know that the telescope, at the time, was very controversial. Galileo died under house arrest. Father Bruno who espoused the idea that the Earth wasn't the center of the universe was burned at the stake by the Church. So the telescope was extremely controversial and dangerous for people to look through, but now we just see it as a tool. Psychedelics are, similarly, tools, and they're not good or bad in and of themselves. It's how they're used. We hope that the psychedelics will be seen in this destigmatized way as, really, essential tools for understanding who we are as humans and to healing all sorts of different issues. This is the MAPS logo as interpreted by Alex Grey, an artist. The important thing here is that the hands are to the humans. It's about therapy. The psychedelic background is background, and the human contact, the therapeutic use, is the foreground, and so what we're talking about is psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy. This is a picture of Timothy Leary and me in 1990. This was a conversation at a MAPS benefit. I just asked Tim, with all his advice and all of his experience doing psychedelic research here at Harvard and also in becoming a proponent, what advice did he have for me for trying to make psychedelics into medicines through the government. His response was, "Fuck the government. I am so far past asking for permission for anything, but I'm glad you're doing it." That's where he held up my hands. I felt like this was not the passing the torch of cultural revolution, but passing the torch of scientific research. That was 1990. If you look at this chart of the Web of Science Psychedelic Publication, over about 70 years, what you'll see is a peak in the end of the '60s or early '70s, and that, we all understand, is the psychedelic revolution. It was a major topic of scientific research. The backlash happened, the Controlled Substances Act of 1970, and then things declined. Scientific publications declined over the next several decades, and almost all of those papers were just about the risks of psychedelics. Then it started climbing again after 1990, and that's when the group of people at the FDA who regulate psychedelics took over and switched to a new group who wanted to open the door to research, which they did in 1990 with Rick Strassman during a DMT study, negatively focused on schizophrenia. Maybe DMT, the only endogenous psychedelic, maybe too much of it cause schizophrenia. Then 1992, the FDA formally opened the door to psychedelic research. You can see since then that that has rippled all over the world, and now we are really in the midst of a renaissance of psychedelic research. This was just two years after Timothy Leary spoke to me there at the conference. Initially, this was all done by non-profits. These are the main non-profits. Then just a little bit around a year ago, the first IPO for a for-profit psychedelic came about, and now there's a handful of psychedelic non-profits, but there's hundreds, we think, over 400 for-profit psychedelic companies. This is just a list of some of them [inaudible] and traded on the stock markets. I think there are, really, no fundamental regulatory obstacles, at this point, for doing psychedelic research and no fundamental financial obstacles as evidenced by all these for-profit companies. Since MAPS was founded in '86, we've raised over 130 million in donations and grants for psychedelic therapy and medical marijuana research. But in the last two years, the for-profits have raised about $1.5 billion. That just gives you a sense of the scale of things. This is our corporate structure. MAPS is the non-profit, which I started in April 1986, and the public benefit corporation is our for-profit pharmaceutical arm which we started in December 2014. This is our virtuous circle. The public benefit corporation is for-profit. We're trying to do two different things. One is bring back psychedelic-assisted therapy but also market pharmaceuticals in a way that makes more sense than profit-maximizing. Here, what we do is we maximize public benefit. But the public benefit corporation is 100 percent owned by the non-profits. People donate to MAPS, get a tax deduction. MAPS invests in the Public Benefit Corp. Then the Public Benefit Corp will do the research, will eventually sell MDMA, will make a profit. Profits will be used for the mission of the non-profit. That's where we are currently, whether we can go forward in this way or whether we need to take in investors or so, to globalize, to commercialize, to reach sustainability is not clear yet, but this is our current corporate structure. This is an important regulation that was passed, actually, in 1984, called data exclusivity. Just to say what this is is it's a different patent. I think one of the problems we're seeing is over broad patents in psychedelics, but that's pro forma for pharma industry, but we wish it wouldn't be happening here. But data exclusivity provides incentives for developing drugs that are off patents. That means that no one can use your data for a period of five years. If you do pediatric studies, you've got an extra six months and the FDA is requiring us to do pediatric studies. Then it blocks a generic competitor from applying for 5 1/2 years, and then it takes FDA at least six months to review. There's this period of data exclusivity to provide incentives for developing drugs like psilocybin, like MDMA, like ibogaine, where the drugs themselves are in the public domain. I didn't know about this till 2013. It's very obscure because pharma companies don't develop drugs that they don't have patents on. This data exclusivity is almost never used but it is a law, and it is providing us the opportunity to tell donors if you help us make MDMA into a medicine then we can become a self-sustaining organization. Data exclusivity in Europe is 10 years. Actually, eight years data exclusivity, two years market exclusivity. Now, our public benefit model, first off, is going around the clock. We maximize therapeutic outcomes for each patient, not profit. We share our findings. We're not creating patents. We create an ethical practice model for the for-profits. We're sympathetic with for-profit, we're supportive, but we want to keep them in check. We see that for-profit motive in our health care system has worked at [inaudible] sense. We are very sympathetic with drug policy reform, and that's where I think we're different than a lot of for-profit companies. I think what they do is they misunderstand their business model. They think that, if people have legal access to psychedelics, either through the organization's psilocybin initiative, or just through decriminalization, or eventually legalization, that that will be bad for their business model, especially if we introduced harm reduction, psychedelic peer support, honest drug education, pure drugs to educate the people to be both psychedelic-informed about how to handle it, I think it's actually going to create more people who want to go to psychedelic clinics with trained professionals covered by insurance. But I think there is this concern among the for-profits that either it's bad for the business model or that they should stay away from the controversy. But I think it's a moral imperative to see the counterproductive nature of the drug war and to work on drug policy reform. We also, obviously, within that context, support the use not just for medical purposes, but for personal and spiritual growth, and also addressing conflict between couples, so couple therapy and cultures. We have a project where Israelis and Palestinians are using ayahuasca and MDMA together, and we're trying to study that as a model for psychedelics for a group conflict resolution. This is our public-benefit model. To give you a sense, Sarko is a police officer from outside Boston. He's a psychotherapist, and he's been given permission by his chief to go through our training program to learn how to give MDMA-assisted therapy to other police officers for PTSD. This was my TED talk. The NSA is advertising on my TED talk. We've reached a place of cultural acceptance, and we're about to start research inside the Veterans Administration. I've been trying since 1990 to offer money to the VA to do MDMA-PTSD research, and it's finally starting to happen at the Loma Linda VA sometime this month. Then shortly after, Rachel Yehuda at the Bronx VA is going to test two versus three sessions. Again, these are all funded by philanthropy, but they are taking place, and it's a major turning point. There's no obstacles anymore working at the VA. We've yet to enroll any active-duty soldiers, that's what we're hoping to do soon. That's again, not a matter of regulation. We're going to start group therapy at the Portland VA early next year. We feel just very optimistic about the way things are going. Now, in terms of regulations, we've had a formal dispute resolution that cost us over a quarter million dollars of legal fees and many months with the FDA. We have a protocol to give MDMA to therapists as part of their training. We have one that we're working on. We submitted a modified one, December 2019, and FDA put a clinical hold on it. They said no too risky, there's no benefits from giving MDMA to therapists as part of their training. We're never going to give me permission with this. Give it up. Try something else to train them. Also, they wanted the lead facilitator of our two-person therapy team to be an MD or a PhD. Right now, they just have to be a licensed therapist. The second person doesn't need to have a license, but they want and insist they have bachelor's degree or 1,000 hours [inaudible] experience or in a program to get a license. Then they wanted there to be a physician on-site for every psychedelic clinic, every psychedelic administration where even for Phase 3 we don't have that. We have a physician doing prescribing, screening, and on-call, but not onsite. These are quiescent pills. It took us a lot of therapists or local small private practice therapists. They couldn't afford a doctor onsite. We went through a major major process of this formal dispute resolution, and we appealed the Division of Psychiatry's views up to the Office of Neuroscience and the Office of Neuroscience completely agreed with us. The clinical hold is removed. The lead person just needs to be a licensed therapist, and the physician does not need to be onsite. This was regulation, not a law, but it was something that, again, the FDA is designed to permit these disputes to go to higher levels, which was terrific. It's important to challenge the FDA because they're nervous about approving stuff like this that's new and then getting blamed if anything goes wrong. As far as our Phase 3 results, just again, we've been permitted to move to Phase 3, final stage of research. Our first study was published May 10th in Nature Medicine. The results were outstanding. We had two New York Times articles. Psychedelic Drug Passes a Big Test. Psychedelic Revolution Is Coming. This was on the front page of The New York Times. Scientific American, MDMA Shows New Promise for Trauma, but the Drug Alone is Not a Cure. That's really the key point we're trying to make, and I'm glad that's getting across. It's not the drug, it's the therapy and the drug making. What were the results? We had a very small p-value probability, meaning one in 10,000 chance that our results, the difference between the groups, was due to a random factor rather than the MDMA-assisted therapy. We had a very large effect size. Effect sizes are on the basis of one, meaning one standard deviation. Our placebo is therapy, therapy with an active placebo versus therapy with MDMA. The effect size of MDMA is 0.91, which is very large. The effect sizes for Zoloft and Paxil, which are approved for PTSD, the only drugs, are either some of their studies failed, or they were small effect sizes or on the very low end of medium, but were high and then very high, 2.1 effect size within subjects, when you combine MDMA with the opiates. It's enormous. Replicated results from Phase 2, no site-to-site variability. It wasn't driven by some great therapists at a certain site. We had an excellent safety profile, no increase in suicidality in the MDMA group. One person attempted suicide twice during the study, and one person had such severe suicidal ideation that she checked herself into a hospital to avoid killing herself. Both were in the placebo group. So we met all the criteria for FDA to approve a drug on the basis of one Phase 3 study instead of 2. Now at the same time, a very similar time, FDA approves this Alzheimer's drug, and it can turn into a big scandal for FDA. They had failed Phase 3 studies. They re-interpreted the data, it was marginal effect. It had significant safety problems, and yet it got approved, and we were rejected by the FDA on going forward with just one Phase 3 study, even though we met all the criteria. There is this concern about the controversy, the stigma of psychedelics. There's the concern about FDA regulators not wanting to be criticized if something goes wrong. But again, this is not a matter of law, it's just these are judgment calls that the FDA made, and so we are going to have to go through to the second Phase 3 study. This is a complicated slide, but just to show that the upper is the studies that we require for the NDA, which is New Drug Approval. We anticipate the second Phase 3 study in May of 2022. We'll get the interim analysis, an early read how it's doing, and then it'll be done in October 2022. Then we analyze the data. If it's good, we submit it to FDA, and then we think by the end of the third quarter, FDA will approve, and now DEA will reschedule 90 days later. Now, that used to be a problem. DEA would delay, and there was no way to force them, but Congress rectified that a bunch of years ago, and they passed a law that said that DEA must reschedule within 90 days. They didn't say which schedule goes in, but DEA and the FDA Office of Controlled Substances Act work on that together. But DEA must reschedule. This was a key regulatory problem that law has changed. Now we can say for sure that DEA must reschedule within 90 days. Now, states have to reschedule as well, and we'll have a lot of work. Twenty-five states automatically reschedule, and the others, you have to do various things with their Department of Public Health or whatever they call it, Commissioners of Public Health, or Board of Pharmacies. So there will be a bunch of work once DEA and FDA approve and reschedule, then we have a lot of work to do on the states. We hope it will end up being in Schedule 3 or Schedule 4. I think that's likely. This is another matter of regulation. How is it going to be regulated post-approval? It's called the Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies, the REMS. It's only prescribed by prescribers certified in the REMS program. It means special education for prescribers. It's only going to be 2-4 hours about the health risks of MDMA. But the therapist who would administer it only can be those that have been through our training program or our training program, but that [inaudible] license to schools of psychiatry and psychotherapy that has the content that we agree with, so only trained therapists and only special prescribers, and it's only shipped to the prescribers. It's never given to the patient, so it's not a take-home drug, it's only to be administered under direct supervision, and there are certain kinds of safety screenings that are required. Under this kind of a situation, it's easy for the DEA to say that there's not going to be much drug diversion. Patients never get it to take home. It's only under supervision, and it's only trained people. So I think that this is what we're going to negotiate with the FDA. Again, this is a matter of regulation, not law. There will be the psychotherapy clinics. There will be, eventually, I think over 6,000 of them in America. There's already over 1,000 ketamine Clinics, so we hear. Also, these clinics, people are going to want to be cross-trained, but therapists want to be cross-trained at MDMA, so psilocybin, ketamine, and whatever else gets approved. It's not going to be like, here's an MDMA clinic, here's a psilocybin clinic. I think this is what it's going to look like. This is our goal during this period of data exclusivity to deliver 1 million MDMA sessions. We think it'll be, on average, maybe a two-session model, half a million patients. The bottom line here is the number of therapists that we need to train, and that's 25,000 therapists we're planning to train in the rest of the decade. These numbers do not include group therapy, where that could dramatically increase what we're doing, and the timeline at the top is the therapist capacity. We're just assuming that they only work with psychedelics part of the time rather than all of the time. They could potentially do more and also, we could do more with group therapy. But there's eight or nine million people with PTSD in America. This is really only scratching the surface of the people that need the help, but we do think it should only be used by trained therapists. One of the biggest issues is going to be how do we fully train therapists. The issue there is, we think that therapists should have the legal opportunity to get the drug that they're going to give to patients, taking it themselves as a patient in a therapeutic setting. How do we do that? We cannot knowingly sell as a sponsor for off-label uses. MDMA for PTSD doesn't inherently include giving MDMA to therapists as part of their training. I said we have protocols, but they're very expensive. We have to do all sorts of data gathering. So what we're going to do is propose for the FDA label that the label will say MDMA for PTSD by trained therapists whose training can include one MDMA session. If the FDA agrees to that, then that means that training therapist is unlabeled, and then we can do that without a protocol, and that's what I think we really need to do. You wouldn't go to a meditation teacher that didn't meditate, a yoga teacher that never did yoga. It makes sense for a therapist who want to volunteer. We're never going to make this compulsory. It's always going to be voluntary. We don't think that every therapist who's done MDMA is better than every therapist who hasn't. It's just these therapists will be more effective themselves if they have the experience with the drug that they're going to give to people. This is how we approach it. Again, it's a matter of regulation. This is a really key important argument. Legalization follows medicalization. This is a chart over almost more than 40 years about the American voter views, a Gallup chart on legalizing marijuana. Now the bottom is for the top as against, and you can see it crosses over around 2013 where you get more than 50 percent are in favor of legalizing marijuana. Now, notice here that there's a rise from the very beginning at '69 through the '70s. This is when Jimmy Carter is elected, in '76 on a platform of decriminalizing marijuana, but then you get the backlash, parents movements, then you get Ronald Reagan "Just Say No", starting in 1980. Support, basically, plateaus for several decades. It only starts rising again around 1997. What happened then? California and Arizona passed the first Medical Marijuana Laws. The rise of medical marijuana tracks the rise in support for marijuana legalization. I think that you get people believing or not sure what to believe about all this propaganda from how terrible marijuana is, not to say that it doesn't have risks, which it does, but I think medical use gives people access to stories of people that it's helpful for. It changes their risk-benefit analysis. Also, you see distribution models, the medical marijuana clinics that aren't surrounded by people with machine guns, it's not underground, and then you're making tax money. This is our history for marijuana. I think it'll be similar with MDMA. What we see here is Denver made the mushrooms the lowest priority. They were the first one to do it, and most importantly, Oakland followed Oregon's psilocybin initiative. We're seeing these things spread across America. Then also Oregon decriminalizes all drugs, DC decriminalizes psychedelics. MAPS is doing psychedelic harm reduction as part of our mission to make drug policy reform work. We are consulting with and have a training program for police in Denver about what to do if they see somebody having a difficult psychedelic experience. We're going to do a pilot of about 100. If that works, we're going to sign a contract to do around 3,000 first responders in Denver. We hope to do that in Oregon and elsewhere to really build in our first responders an understanding of a better way to respond. We've been doing this at festivals all over the world, particularly Burning Man and Boom Festival. We're developing this Public Health Framework for Post-Prohibition Future. It's just a nice little slide. We've done it at these festivals, but we're also trying to, as I say, do it with the Denver police and others. The way that we're thinking that this will work is that there will be licensed legalization. This is the long-term goal that people will have a license to do drugs. The thing is that, if you misbehave, your license is taken away, and you get punished for your misbehavior. You don't get punished for your state of consciousness. It's your behavior. It's your performance. The reason why I'm talking about this is that drunk drivers can lose their driver's license, but they easily can go to a bar and buy more alcohol, get in their car, and kill people. We need to make it harder for people, if they're drunk drivers, harder for them to get alcohol too. So I think we regulate alcohol too lightly. This is the program that we're talking about in the future for licensed legalization. We think it's going to require a decade of the psychedelic clinics being rolled out for people to hear these stories from people with positive experiences and also to see psychedelic clinics again emerging from the underground, and that will change people's mind. We'll have licensed legalization, I think, in 2035. Now, how do we handle kids? For alcohol, 23 states where alcohol is prohibited to minors have an override for parents where parents can give alcohol to their kids. I think that's the way it should be with psychedelics, that there should be a parental override. If you look at the cultures that have successfully integrated psychedelics, like the Navajo Native Americans, that Congressman Blumenauer mentioned, or the ayahuasca churches. They don't have these age limits. Parents, we are the family values, so we think that this decision should be made by the families rather than by the government. Edgar Mitchell, the astronaut said, "When we see our fundamental unity with the processes of nature and the functioning of the universe, as I so vividly saw it from the Apollo spacecraft, the old ways of thinking and behaving will disappear." This fundamental unity is what people can experience through psychedelics, and I think that will have profound political implications once we realize our intimate connection to nature, to global warming, to the environment, to other species, to other people who look differently than us or have different religions, different races, different gender orientations. I think this fundamental unity, psychedelics will help people experiences. This is why we need mass mental health as our goal, we need drug policy reform, and we also need drug development. It's a lot easier to work with psychedelics than shoot everybody up in space. This is the political theory behind what we're trying to say is the more people we can help experience this fundamental unity, the better off we'll be, and then we hope 2070 psychedelic utopia that we'll have a more spiritualized world. Right now, we're humans, as a group, lemmings going over the cliff. What we're doing with the environment, and warfare, and prejudice, and authoritarianism, this is our idealistic plan. Now, how did this begin? Just to say, MDMA was invented in 1912. It was rediscovered by Sasha Shulgin. It was introduced into therapy by Leo Zeff, the Secret Chief. It leaked out of this to become ecstasy, and that's what attracted the government's attention. They started criminalizing. This is me in the background going in to ask for a hearing in 1984. We won the hearing. The judge said MDMA should be a Schedule 3 drug, but DEA rejected the recommendation. They criminalized MDMA under an emergency basis while the hearing was still going on. That was illegal. They didn't have the authority to do that. People got busted for the first year it got released. Then I started MAPS, I realized the only way it was going to be non-profit drug development through the FDA. Our first protocols from Harvard, from elsewhere, were all rejected. Then it was 1992 that Charlie Grob and I got permission for the first Phase 1 dose-response safety study. This now points to the FDA, again, as being the key factor. It wasn't regulation. It wasn't laws. People interpreted, differently, the data that they saw at the FDA, and they decided to let the research go forth. This is the psychedelic slide paired by the FDA just to indicate again that they're fully behind us. But we don't have federal funding. The Texas legislature has allocated 1.5 million to the Houston VA to study psilocybin, and we're working with them now to allocate another 1.4 million or 1.5 million for an MDMA arm to compare with psilocybin. So we'll know in the next month or so, if they'll allocate that money. Dan Crenshaw, this is bi-partisan support. He's a Republican Congressman from Texas, from Houston, a former Navy Seal. He's our main ally. He's heard from so many Navy Seals who've gotten help from psychedelics. He put this amendment to the Defense Appropriations Act to help the DOD do this. It didn't get attached, but it's starting to show that we're doing some work. This is where we need help, federal funding. Matt Johnson just announced at Hopkins that, for the first time in over half a century, NIDA, the National Institute on Drug Abuse has given a grant of 4 million over three years to study psilocybin for smoking cessation. Finally, NIDA is getting over its prejudices against saying anything good about illegal drugs. Now, the last thing that has been really bad about regulations and potentially legal obstruction of Schedule 1 research was with marijuana. It was through the NIDA monopoly, which has been in existence since 1968. There's only been one source of marijuana for FDA-regulated research, but it's only for research, not for commercial use. Therefore, in Phase 3 FDA studies, you have to use the exact same drug that would be commercialized. Since you can't commercialize NIDA marijuana, this is how the DEA blocked marijuana from becoming a medicine by the FDA. We have all these states, but they've done that as a reaction in part against the fact that the federal system was blocked. NIDA also provides terrible quality marijuana, the oldest, the driest. It's really bad. I've been involved with lawsuits against the DEA trying to break this monopoly since 2000. We finally got into court in 2005. Again, we won the case, and the DEA once again rejected the recommendation and kept the NIDA monopoly. But that just ended a few months ago. The DEA, finally, it's going to license other people to grow marijuana so that there can be drug development in the United States with domestic product, and you can see the contrast. They're trying to make good quality marijuana and not what NIDA provides. Also, we just got 12.9 million from the state of Michigan for a study of cannabis in veterans with PTSD in 320 veterans. We're getting state funding, not federal funding. Now that this monopoly has ended, there are really no fundamental political obstructions to research with psychedelics or marijuana. As a closing, I'll just say that this is going to be another area of research, or our regulatory that we'll have to deal with is direct-to-consumer ads. This we created as a fun thing. Ask your doctor if MDMA therapy is right for you. How do we handle really direct-to-consumer ads? All sorts of issues related to that. I just want to say that it's been a real pleasure to be able to give this big overview to all of you and also to say that I feel that we are in an incredible moment of opportunity, of great need, and open doors at the regulatory agencies, not just in the US but around the world. I think if we're very careful and very thoughtful and do a lot of public education, a lot of free thought about laws and regulations that we will be able to mainstream psychedelics and, potentially, have a big impact on the mass mental health. Thank you. Thank you so much. That was such an interesting, incredibly rich presentation. We have a number of questions. I just want to ask you one that I think is really important. This comes from Brandon [inaudible] . How can entrepreneurs and advocates help veterans gain access to this medicine? Are there any unmet needs right now? How can people help? For example, we need outside funding. The VA is not yet at the point where they're willing to fund it. So we've got the Texas State Legislature. If there are entrepreneurs in Texas, they can work now with the Texas Legislature, with their representatives, to try to get them to allocate this 1.4 million to do an MDMA comparison to psilocybin. Also, wherever you happen to be located, contact your local VA and suggest that they get involved in this. There's a program of therapy, Cognitive-Behavioral Conjoint Therapy, which is, conjoint as couples or dyads where one has PTSD, and the partner is impacted. We've done a small treatment development study where both of them get MDMA. The results were better than anything with Cognitive-Behavioral Conjoint Therapy without MDMA. It's an accepted evidence-based treatment used throughout the VA. So we're trying to raise $2 million to start studies inside the VA. Right now, entrepreneurs can engage the VA, they can donate to MAPS to help us do this, contact their representatives and just say that we really need this. But I'd say that the critical thing is moving us into the Department of Defense to active-duty soldiers on the theme of treating people closer to the trauma. The closer to the trauma, the easier it is, and that's the same idea of doing pediatric studies. The FDA has said, if we succeed in adults, we have to study 12 to 17-year-olds. So I think we need help to really get approval from people in the DOD to let active-duty soldiers with PTSD go through our treatment. Thanks again for joining us. It's really been a pleasure having you, and thanks also to Congressman Blumenauer.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: FyP8I-m2uw0 (https://youtu.be/FyP8I-m2uw0) ===

hello Michael Tracy here tyt mixing it up a little bit today um this video is a promo for an interview I did over on the tyt interviews Channel obviously will be linked in the description box um the interview is with Rick doin who is the founder and executive director of maps uh Maps is an acronym for the multip multi-disciplinary association of psycho oh God I'm messing up the the full acronym NOW but I had it in front of me when I did the interview so um basically the the full uh the U the the the organization is devoted to psychedelic science research and um popularizing the utility of psychedelic drugs um it's Rick doblin is somebody who I've been an admirer of for much of my life now um he is um somebody who is extremely precient about the benefits that psychedelic drugs could confer for much of the population um obviously there's a big stigma around psychedelic drug use um thankfully that stigma has reduced somewhat primarily because um the uses of it in a medical context have been substantiated by a multitude now of Highly controlled scientific studies um the most recent being in December of last year when uh researchers at myu langone did uh you know a double blind study testing the efficacy of psilocybin mushrooms or uh of psilocybin which is the active property in so-called magic mushrooms on um people with terminal illnesses um it found that with a remarkable rate of effectiveness um that psilocybin did most definitely uh alleviate depression in people who were suffering from Fatal illnesses and something that Rick dolin and I talked about in this interview is what the trajectory is in terms of taking the benefits that have now been corroborated in a medical context and making it more Society wide because you don't have to be hled by cancer or you know in the throws of extreme depression in order to benefit enormously from these drugs uh so it was a real thrill to get to talk to Rick on the interview is about 50 minutes um I mentioned at one point that it was my uh intention to go a full interview without saying the word Trump um but unfortunately that did come up um just because the government has a role in facilitating scientific research um namely the federal government and um I think there are legitimate concerns over whether psychedelic uh drugs are going to be continue to receive monetary support from government sources u in terms of further study Rick doblin doesn't seem to think that that should be uh particularly worrying for a variety of reasons so hopefully we'll be continue to see psychedelics tested under um you know rigorous conditions and their um and their uses will be promulgated um to the public Rick actually hypothesizes that within 15 years um we may well end up seeing something resembling psych psychedelic clinics that people can obtain some kind of uh prescription for and go uh to and um in their local community in in a controlled setting with professionals on uh on the scene um be provided with psychedelic drugs soloc cyan in particular um perhaps MDMA and um you know to and it root out some of the trauma that uh makes their life a lot more difficult to lead um you know the reason why I was compelled to to do this interview and why I've been kind of a quiet proponent of this for a long time now is because there just there's just such enormous potential there to to reduce suffering um among uh people who don't really see a way to um quell their symptoms that they are mired with um you know it's depression is a very intractable ailment for a lot of people um there's never there's seldom a very straightforward treatment regimen that is you know universally regarded as effective um so you know uh what really needs to happen is that the stigma needs to be reduced around the use of these drugs you know it's not inherently recreational uh it's not because you're some kind of I don't know psychonaut that you um that you that you uh would would seek out these experiences although obviously those subcultures do exist but really I I I I try to encourage viewing this subject through the prism of of therapy through therapy utic uses rather than recreational kind of use um and I think Rick doblin affirms that that view and um you know we talk about all this stuff at pretty pretty great length so I I would encourage anybody who is interested to check out the full interview um I make a uh statement as to my own experiences uh that some of you might find mildly interesting um and that is it let me know what you think of the interview if you do end up watching and have a wonderful day

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: hMrmDoZ7Pqo (https://youtu.be/hMrmDoZ7Pqo) ===

Thank you so much for joining us today, Rick. Oh, it's my pleasure. I'm really looking forward to this because there's so much need for public education as we're making so much progress. So, I really appreciate the opportunity. Yeah, absolutely. I we just both got back from Horizons and we learned a lot a lot of cool developments that are going on with maps and some of the new funding mechanisms. So, I think we'll touch about touch on that just a little bit at the end. But, Rick, if you could take us all the way back for people who don't know what MDMA the landscape look like before prohibition because it was not prohibited at the same time as the other psychedelics that we usually talk about. So, if you could inform listeners a little bit about the history there. Yeah, so, you know, we had a lot of research in the '50s and '60s. We had this the counterculture and then the backlash. And so, the Controlled Substances Act of 1970 um was where all these psychedelics got criminalized on a federal level. And one of them that was criminalized was MDMA, methylenedioxyamphetamine. Which is kind of like um an LSD MDMA combination. It's it's more psychedelic than MDMA, but it has a lot of the same warmth and um openness. Um so, that was criminalized. So, but it was clear that that was coming along. So, there there had been um Sasha Shulgin who had had his first experience with mescaline and it was profound. And he was working for DuPont. And he developed these uh biodegradable um insecticides and uh they would rewarded him to uh have a lab to do whatever he wanted to do. And so, he increasingly started working on psychedelics and eventually they realized he didn't want to do that. He left. So, Sasha explored all sorts of phenethylamines. MDMA is of all the classic psychedelics it's most similar to mescaline. And that was also his his his first Aldous Huxley's first experience with with mescaline as well. So, Sasha developed hundreds of compounds, and one of them was MDMA. And he had um a small group of people. It was very interesting. He had a group of 12 people. So, first off, he would take it uh all these new things, and he'd do it in low doses and increasing amounts, and then he would share it with his wife Ann, and then if they liked it, they would share it with this group of 12 people. And then they would get different perspectives on the same substance. And then if they thought it had particular value, then they would turn it over to a fellow named Leo Zeff, who we had called the secret chief. He was the um leader of the underground psychedelic therapy movement. And so, um the effects of MDMA were so profound. Now, Leo was about to retire um in the '70s, in the middle '70s, and he was a clinical psych PhD. Well, MAPS has published a book called The Secret Chief Revealed, where we did get permission from his family to reveal who he was. Um and so, Ann and Sasha had him try MDMA, and he was uh impressed so much that he decided he's not going to retire, and he's going to start using MDMA and training other therapists and psychiatrists in MDMA. And so, that was like around the middle '70s. And they used the code name Adam for it. Now, it kind of gives you this sense of uh primal innocence, you could say, the Garden of Eden, you know, this So, but it also it's a good scramble of the actual name letters, so MDMA sort of has a lot of Adam in there. And they just didn't want to be clear about what the drug was, cuz the fear was that it would be criminalized. And interestingly enough, um a bunch of chemists at MIT at night, students, and others would uh manufacture it. So, a lot of the early MDMA that was used by therapists in the middle '70s to the early '80s came from MIT. So, it was very good quality. The Boston Group, they were known as a lot of made at MIT. So, what happened though was that MDMA escaped from these therapeutic circles and was then marketed by people calling it Ecstasy. So, what a lot of people don't know is that MDMA was a therapy drug before it was a party drug. And it was the party drug nature of it that really got it criminalized. And in April of 1985, Newsweek did the first big article about MDMA. And that was when we were suing the DEA to try to keep it legal for therapeutic use. And um Frank Sapienza, who was a pharmacologist for the DEA, said that um when they moved to criminalize it, they only knew about it as a party drug. That they were completely taken by surprise that there was all these psychiatrists and therapists working with it. So, there were roughly half a million doses used in these uh therapeutic contexts. You know, a lot of it was personal growth, too. It wasn't just, you know, psychiatrists or therapists in their offices. So, it was a lot of But, it was all indoors and didn't attract any attention. Now, I learned about MDMA in 1982. So, I wasn't in any way first on the scene. Um and when I first heard about it, it was um September of 1982, and I was at Esalen, and I was doing a in Big Sur, California, and I was doing a workshop with Stan and Christina Grof. And the workshop was called The Mystical Quest. And it was a month-long workshop. And this was also I had dropped out of college for 10 years from '72 when I decided to focus my life on psychedelics and realized that um I was unbalanced and that uh you know, I had the delusion the more psychedelics you take the faster you evolve. And you know, if if only that were true. Um but I had completely underplayed the importance of integration and I was all confused and stuff. So I I anyway built houses for 10 years, got grounded, went back to school now the first semester to figure out what my curriculum would be to become a psychedelic therapist. And so while I'm at Esalen, a woman named Debbie Harlow comes by. And she wasn't in this month-long workshop and she said there's this new drug called Adam and it's helps you feel love and helps you feel connected and helps you be a better listener and and I was like, well, you know, what difference is that? I'm already in love and I'm already, you know, really good listener, so I thought and um and then I saw a group of people sitting around in a circle doing and doing this Adam. And they were talking to each other. And I was immediately unimpressed because you take a bunch of LSD and you can't talk. Or you take ayahuasca, you're not in a position to talk. So I just thought if you know who you are, you're able to have these logical conversations, you know, what good is the drug? How strong can you know, it's it So I like to say that I was uh stupid enough to underestimate it but smart enough to buy some. Nice. So um so I bought some and um I took it home and um did it with my girlfriend. And uh when we did it together, I was just incredibly impressed how profound it was. And how it enabled us to speak from the heart, to be really open. It did make me a better listener. It did make me feel more love and connection. And I just knew immediately that this was a new kind of substance. It was different than MDA. And that it had incredible potential. Um I mean, one of the ways that I assessed it is that um when I was um at this workshop, there was a a young woman that um around my age that was um had never done an LSD therapy session. And so, she asked me to sit for her for an LSD session, which we do on the weekends and stuff. So, because the the workshop was not about that. It was all about the holotropic breathwork and all. So, anyway, I I I did this um sitting for her. And it's a pretty intimate situation. It wasn't sexual in any way, but but it's very intimate when people's ego is being dissolved and you're supporting them. And so, she gave me this um gold necklace as a present. And so, I was wearing that. So, you can imagine, I come home and this other woman gave me this necklace and um you know, and and so, just the way in which we were able to talk about that was so um the beyond jealousy. It was just so clear. It was just beautiful. So, those are some of the more fraught conversations. And the MDMA made it just super easy. And and very strong. And then I also remember feeling that um the love that we we kept saying, you know, this is not the drug speaking. This is the drug that is helping us to express what we really feel, what's already there. So, it it was just a magnificent experience. And from that, I really got the sense. And then, you know, I learned that there was a lot of therapeutic use of MDMA and it was used for couples therapy. It was used for PTSD. It was used for depression. It was used with people that had cancer, that had life-threatening illnesses. There was all sorts of incredible stories. Um there's actually a book on our MAPS website. We have a section for free books. It's called Through the Gateway of the Heart. And it was by Ralph Metzner. He edited all these different stories of people talking about their MDMA experiences. Um, and so then in '84, I went back to Esalen for another workshop with Stan and Christina on the Spiritual Emergence Network. So, this is about people that have breakdowns. It could be like a midlife crisis or could be considered like a psychotic break or something where there's their normal patterns from the past don't work anymore. And you could see it as a pathology and you got to tranquilize people and give them drugs and do all this or you can see it as something new emerging. And so that's where this approach, um, R.D. Laing did a lot of this kind of work. And so there was this sense that, um, training for, um, spiritual emergence and and people where they could call. So, I did this training for a month. And a lot of it is dealing with people's difficult emotions. And then I get home and I'm home home for a couple days and a friend of mine calls me and he says that, um, I'd given him some MDMA, which he'd done with his girlfriend, who I'd never met. And during this MDMA experience, memories of past sexual assault and rape and almost murder, um, you know, very difficult, um, came back to her. And she had kind of dealt with it. She'd been medicated before. She'd been hospitalized before. She'd been suicidal before, but this now she'd had this balance, but the MDMA upset this balance. It came to the surface. And it was so painful for her that she checked herself into a hospital to avoid self-harm. And she was there for 4 or 5 days and then she got out with the same pills and the same stuff that she knew had never worked before. And so she was even more in despair. So, my friend said, um, would you work with her with, um, MDMA? You know, is there anything that you can do to help her? So, I felt like this was one of the key turning points of my life. When I just had this training in how to do this, I didn't feel qualified to do it. I was not fully trained as a therapist or anything, but I agreed to talk to her and I said, you know, if you promise not to commit suicide while we're working together, I will work with you. And I'll get my women friends and we'll come and we'll try to create this safe environment around you and so, she agreed. And anyway, I talked about this in my TED Talk if people want to see more of the story and this woman now So, that So, in '84, when it's still legal, that's when I knew, I saw that it really helped her with her PTSD. So, that was the first kind of direct experience of me working with somebody that was in such pain and suffering. And so, then there had been a series of meetings at Esalen with Dick Price, the co-founder of Esalen, Stan Grof, and Andy Weil, and a lot of um people that were still involved, some in the underground and some above ground researchers. Because now that MDMA was ecstasy and it was being used in the public, it was clear that it was doomed. That this was Nancy Reagan, just say no, escalation of the drug war, and so it was it was clear that it was doomed. And so, I was um I felt like I woke up to LSD in 1972 after the backlash. I had previously believed the propaganda, but I I realized the value of LSD after the backlash. And so, now I said, I know about MDMA before the backlash. We can predict that it's going to happen, but I know about it now. And I said, maybe now I can get involved in trying to organize and protect it. And so, these meetings that were taking place at Esalen, which Laura Huxley actually had gotten me invited to, because she'd seen a letter I'd written to the Assistant Secretary General of the UN, who wrote this incredible book, Genesis, Shaping a Global Spirituality, about how we need um people to understand that we're all part of one system, we're all connected more than we're different. The astronauts say the same thing, a lot of them, looking back at Earth from space, and but this was his theory that we have the um United Nations to mediate conflicts between countries, but we also have um religious conflicts that are underneath a lot of that, and that we need to kind of have this sense of global spirituality. So, New Genesis, Shaping a Global Spirituality. And I'd written him a letter, and I said, "Your book says nothing about psychedelics." I totally agree, and here's the story on psychedelics. Anyway, Laura Huxley saw that letter, invited me, and I started going to these meetings at Esalen. And so, we needed a a structure to raise funds to pay for the expenses of this eventual lawsuit, and we also wanted to do a little safety experiment. So, I started A friend of mine had a nonprofit in Sarasota, Florida, where I was going to school at New College, and it was a nonprofit that he wasn't using. It was called Earth Metabolic Design Laboratory, and it was connected to Buckminster Fuller, and it was about alternative energy. And this nonprofit structure was there. My friend wasn't using it, and I figured um psychedelics are alternative energy. Mental energy, you know, I can fit it into this mission of this nonprofit. And so, he let me take on the nonprofit, and and um and then Debbie Harlow, who was the one that gave me the MDMA, and Alice Sagar, who was close part of this community out there in California, were close with Ann Shulgin, the three of us started this nonprofit. And so, we prepared, we did a safety study, and then in the summer of '84, the DEA finally moved to criminalize MDMA, but there was a 30-day public comment period, and I went to DC, and um filed for these hearings, and we had great lawyers, a fellow named Richard Cotton who had gone to school with Andy Weil. And we had a Lester Grinspoon, and all these other Harvard Medical School professors, and stuff. So, we got a hearing. And we eventually won the hearing. The judge said MDMA should be schedule three, but the DEA rejected the recommendation. And even before that, it was clear the DEA was going to do whatever they could to block it. So, in '86 is when I started MAPS as a nonprofit psychedelic pharmaceutical company with the primary focus on MDMA. And that was now 35 years ago. So, I'll just say that seeing what it was like when it was legal, and experiencing that, and experiencing the situations where people would take it in, the kind of experiences and healings and learnings that people would have, was amazing. Now, there was other things that were happening, too, which are these, you know, party settings. And so, even then, though, if you can have appropriate harm reduction methods, that these um psychedelics, you could say, are tools. They can be used in many different ways. And if you look at the Native American Church, those are ceremonies, but they're group ceremonies. And they involve dancing, so. Well, the the peyote ceremony doesn't, but the the ayahuasca churches, the Santo Daime, it's sort of a dancing a lot, moving and dancing. The União do Vegetal, it's kind of also ayahuasca, and it's also more singing, and but they're group experiences. So, I just want to say that what I saw when MDMA was legal, when it didn't have all this baggage of uh how bad it was, supposedly, according to what the governments are saying, is that it was being used in multiple different contexts and there were just incredible stories of healings and of joyous um celebrations and and all of that. So, that that's kind of actually inspired me. To this day, MAPS has a two-pronged strategy towards mass mental health. One prong is drug development to make MDMA in particular medicine for PTSD and other things, but the other is drug policy reform so that these things would be legal in pure form, you know, just this um news came out recently that there was 100,000 people died in America from opiate overdoses, more than in any year ever before and that a lot of that it was due to contaminated drugs contaminated with fentanyl. So, you know, what we need is, I believe, legal access to medicinal MDMA covered by insurance, by trained professionals in psychedelic clinics, and we also need a whole different kind of um drug policy for non-medical use that involves honest drug education, pure access to pure substances, harm reduction, peer support, and also treatment on demand. For free, paid for by all the taxes that people are getting. So, that's what I learned from when MDMA was before it was criminalized to see how it worked in all these different contexts. And I believe that what we've done is a tragedy. When I think of the number of people that have died and committed suicide from different emotional issues since the time that MDMA was first criminalized in 1985 by the DEA and now that we're getting it back is just an enormous tragedy of the lost opportunities for helping so many people. And hopefully we will get back to that. And there's one irony here I'll just share and then we can get to some of the other questions. And forever, Rick. You can Well, okay. Well, the irony is that we were involved in this litigation with DEA and we were winning in the court of public opinion in the media. Through Robert Mueller, the author the Assistant Secretary General of the UN, he referred me to a bunch of mystics and I had sent them MDMA. So, Brother David Steindl-Rast, Rabbi Zalman Schachter, Bonnie Palmers from Zen, all these different traditions. So, that there was this kind of you know, spiritual aspect of that. But But, a lot of them were willing to speak to the media. So, we're winning in the court of public opinions. Um a Rabbi Zalman anonymously compared MDMA to the Sabbath. Wow. Yeah. And um And Brother David said that MDMA was like a monk could spend his whole life trying to meditate and experience that that you can get from MDMA. Wow. And that So, So, that's sort of we're winning in the court of public opinion. We're also winning in the court with all these testimonies and as I said, we took DEA completely by surprise. And So, the DEA freaked out and uh in 1985, they emergency scheduled MDMA while the hearings were still still going on. They declared an imminent emergency. And the irony here is that the first legal move against MDMA was illegal. The DEA did not have the authority to emergency schedule drugs. Really? What had happened is Congress had given the emergency scheduling power to the Attorney General. But, the Attorney General had never subdelegated it down to the DEA. All that would have taken is a couple paragraphs in the Federal Register and that would would been done. None of us realized this. It was only a bunch of people busted after '85 and their lawyers figured this out and then um they all had to get they all got off. Wow. So later what happened is the Attorney General did sub delegate delegate the power to emergency scheduling to the DEA. But but it's just keep people should keep in mind that the first move to criminalize MDMA was a crime. Was illegal. And so and a tragedy with all of the healings that could have happened that didn't. And so it took um from 1986 when I started MAPS um to 1992 before we got the first permission to do a study with MDMA. We had five different protocols submitted to the FDA, all rejected. From Harvard Medical School, from UC San Francisco, from very esteemed researchers. All were rejected. And on a personal note, and it's a big motivating factor for me. Um I was always really close with my grandmother. On my mother's side and um she'd had depression earlier in her life and had gotten electroconvulsive therapy in her um late '50s and it actually helped her for about 20 plus years. But then in the '80s the uh depression came back. And she got two more courses of uh ECT and it didn't help her. There was significant memory loss. She hated it. It was just a horrible thing. And so I said to my family, let's see if we can give her MDMA. You know, maybe that would help her. And my parents had a little bit of a different view of the law than I did. And so they said, "Okay, you know, if you can get legal permission, then you can do this with your grandmother." And so I spent a bunch of time with the protocol, with psychiatrists, with early LSD researchers, and the protocol was rejected by the FDA. And it was just really sad. And so, um I actually did um the next best thing, which is um I spent a day with my grandmother, and I worked on the contact high. So, I took MDMA. I couldn't give it to her, but I took it, and I tried to use my mood to influence her. I didn't tell her that I'd taken it, cuz I didn't want to distract her or anything. Um and in the middle of the day, she started saying um there's no reason for me to live. I really want to die. Every moment is painful. I don't want to leave my room. I don't want to see my old friends. I've accomplished everything I want to accomplish. It's really time for me to end it. I'm I'm really done. It's too painful to keep alive. And the MDMA gave me this ability to hear her in a slightly different way. And among all the things that she said, what I kind of focused on was you said you've accomplished everything you want to accomplish in your life. I said, "That's fantastic. You know, I've not accomplished everything I want to accomplish. Let's celebrate. You were married with my grandfather for 49 years before he died of a heart attack. You had children and grandchildren, and you're surrounded by people that love you. You have so much you could do." So, I said, "That's terrific. Let's celebrate that." And so, we it's kind of changed her mood for a bit, but then she said, "There is one thing." And she went back to um her room, and she came out with this book that had uh a note in it and a rose. And she said that it was a wedding present from this guy that she had a romance with before my grandfather that her parents didn't like this guy. They were actually pioneer settlers in Palestine, and he built this house in 1923, my great-grandfather. Um and they built this house in uh Tel Aviv. It's a historic site now on Rothschild Boulevard with a skyscraper in the backyard, skyscraper across the street. The family doesn't own it and hasn't owned it for a long time, but I always wondered, why do I have all these Israeli relatives? And I'm here in America. And so, under the influence of MDMA, my grandmother said, "Here's why. Because I was there in Tel Aviv, and to break up the romance and stuff, um I got shipped back to America." And the book, for those people that know the Bible, was the Song of Songs by Solomon, which is the most erotic part of the Bible. And it's been kind of reinterpreted to be um the love of God and the Jewish people, but it's extremely sensual. It's um When you read it, you would not immediately think, "Oh God, the Jewish people." You'd think, "This is like romance." Um So, anyway, out comes this story and it explained family history, but then, out of frustration, we still couldn't get permission to give MDMA to my grandmother. And what finally happened, then she stopped eating and died cuz she didn't want to live anymore. Um I did actually inherit that book. So, I I have that book and the note and the rose. Um But, 1990, what happened is that the um people at the FDA who regulated psychedelics shifted from one group to another. And this new group really wanted to move forward with um psychedelic research. Not because they were pro-psychedelics, they were just pro-science, and they wanted to evaluate new drugs. Um Now, that was 1990. Now, the irony here is in 1987, right after this situation with my grandmother, that's where I graduated college, and I had this focus on psychology, and I wanted to get a clinical psych PhD and nobody would let me in because I said I want to do MDMA research. You know, and I'd studied and I did really well on the GREs and I had great recommendations and all this stuff, but nobody would let me in. So, I had decided that um I was you know, I'd been since 1972 when I decided to focus my life on psychedelics and now this was 1987 and I graduated and I'm starting all these applications 15 years later and people are now paying saying no. And so I I didn't want to do with my life and so I said, all right, what I'm going to do is I'll just get stoned and think about it. So, I find that the marijuana is really good for strategizing. You know, very good for strategizing. So, I realized under marijuana I'm I want too much I see a pattern here. I want too much too soon. And I want to do the research, but the politics is standing in the way. So, therefore I need to study the politics. And I thought, okay, and I'd read an interview in Harper's Magazine with a fellow that was a drug policy expert and he'd mentioned our lawsuit to against the DEA. And turned out he was at the school I never heard of which was um the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard. And I said, okay, you know, if I'm going to study politics, I might as well see if I can go there. So, I called him up, Mark Kleiman is his name. And I said, would you be willing to be my mentor if I could get in? And we had a really good talk and he said, yes, he would. So, I did manage to get in. He did become my mentor. I learned an enormous amount from him. And then in 1990, when I was going to graduate for 2 years, I was sort of seeing how legit I could be. Um I applied for what's called the Presidential Management Internship, which is now the Presidential Management Fellowship. It's for people that want career in the federal government. And it's a two-year program where they It's a leadership development program. So, you get involved, you meet people from all across the federal government, you build these cross-departmental connections, and every couple months or whatever they bring you out for weekends together or different things. And so, I applied for that and I managed to get it. And then I said, "I want a job at the FDA." So, I got And then it landed at this new group at the FDA called the Pilot Drug Evaluation Staff that is going to approve um a new It's going to test a new way to evaluate drugs, but they were the group that was going to work on psychedelics. So, my application lands with them. And I went through like 6 months of vetting and I almost got this job. And at the end of it, um the very last step, um the DEA said that they would refuse to work with me because it was with schedule one drugs. So, I was willing to wear a suit and tie to work. I was willing to give up drugs. And I am was saved from that horrible fate by the DEA. So, I am so grateful that I could keep doing drugs. Thank you, DEA. And then I met a bunch of the people there and they kind of advised me on how to work with FDA informally. And then in 1992 is when they had these formal hearings. 1990 is when Rick Strassman got permission for a study with DMT. But it was this negatively framed thing. DMT is the only endogenous psychedelic that appears in your brain. Maybe it leads to schizophrenia. You get too much of it or something. So, he even got funding from the Schizophrenia Society. And um And so, in 1992, Charlie Grob and I, a psychiatrist from California, know, had a protocol for MDMA for cancer patients with anxiety. And we feel cuz there was all this growing concern about supposed MDMA neurotoxicity. And it was funded by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. It was this big scare stories. One dose, permanent brain damage, major functional consequences. All of this exaggerated in the service of the drug war to demonize the drug so that we could justify throwing people in jail and having, you know, long periods of time in jail and criminalizing it. And so, um it was this situation where um the FDA was willing to say, um "Yes, we will let you do the research." So, that was really good. They wanted to open the door to psychedelic research and they said, "You need to do a safety study to check out this neurotoxicity but the safety study." Um Anyway, the um we got permission to do this phase one dose response safety study. And that took us through the '90s. Near the end of the '90s, um you know, we still were thinking, we're still battling this neurotoxicity. And and why we initially went for end of life rather than PTSD was because we thought that, um it was clear to us that there was no significant neurotoxicity or, you know, people were fine and people have been doing MDMA, as we said before, since the middle '70s. And this is now 20 years later and people are still fine. But we figured that if we talk about end of life with people that have 12 months or less to live, the DEA couldn't say or the FDA wouldn't say, "Oh, it's too dangerous. You know, maybe 20 years from now they'll show problems." So, but through the end of the '90s then the rave movement grew and there was more controversy about ecstasy. So Charlie decided that it was too much too controversial and he switched to psilocybin for end of life in cancer patients. So that's what began the whole psilocybin projects. It was Charlie moving in that way away from MDMA. So that sort of freed me up and what I knew from 1984 that MDMA was great for PTSD. Plus I felt that we were really now able to make the story that this neurotoxicity doesn't seem to be a problem. You We're only talking about giving it to people a few times. So in 1999-2000 we started MDMA PTSD research in Spain. And that was women survivors of sexual abuse, childhood sexual abuse and adult rape and assault. And the results it was again dose-response safety study but in PTSD patients. The results were good and early on we got some really good media in Spain and that alerted the Madrid anti-drug authority and so they decided to shut the study down for political reasons. So that was heartbreaking. And then the the world's first ayahuasca conference organized by Ralph Metzner who was with Ram Dass and Leary at Harvard took place in California in 2000 in San Francisco and I attended it and this fellow came up to me and he said that he had also been trained by Stan Grof in the holotropic breathwork. So I also was in the early first group ever of people getting certified in in holotropic breathwork. And his name was Michael Mithoefer and he came to me and he said that um he was a member of MAPS but we had never met and I wasn't aware of him. And he said that he wanted to work with me on setting up an offshore clinic where people could go do psychedelics and then we could show the value to different people and he thought that would be great. And he had had a patient of his that had problems with opiates and had gone down to Saint Kitts where a woman Deborah Mash had set up a clinic for ibogaine for opiate addiction and addiction and he said that he would sort of encourage his patient to go as long as he could go along, too, to observe. So, and it looked good. So, Michael came to me and said, "Let's set up an offshore clinic in 2000." And I said, "I am zero interest in that at all." That because we need to make the change from the inside out. We need to go to heart of the system, you know, the belly of the beast, the FDA, the DEA, and make change there. And I said, "Things are changing at the FDA. They are open to this." So, Michael within uh very short time said, "Okay." He was an expert in PTSD. And we said, "All right, great. Let's work on PTSD. Let's go through the FDA." So, that started the efforts in the US in starting in 2000. And then it took us 16 years till November 29th, 2016 to do a whole series of international phase two studies, pilot studies with MDMA for PTSD. And we did them in um the United States, Switzerland, Israel, and Canada. And the thing in phase two, phase one is basically safety studies. Phase two is studies in patients, but you're trying to figure out who does it work with, who to include, who to exclude, what are the doses you use, what are your therapeutic methods, what measures do you use, all these different things to to figure out how to really do rigorous scientific research. And because we didn't have that much funding and we had to just go step by step, it took us 16 years to do that. So, 30 years after I started MAPS, from 1986 to 2016, we had the end of phase two meeting. And that's where you present all your data to FDA and it they gave us permission to move to phase three. It It was tremendous, but I knew that we shouldn't go directly to phase three. The FDA has another program called special protocol assessment. And it's an option. Most pharmaceutical companies don't take it because it delays things um up to a year, you know, 6 to 12 months. For us it took us about eight eight and a half months. But it delays things. But what you do is you negotiate with FDA every aspect of the phase three design and all the other studies and data that they want to see and you come up with this package that would generate all the data for review to make it into a prescription drug. And if you get an agreement with FDA, if it Not all these negotiations, not all these special protocol assessments end up with an agreement. But we got an agreement letter. And what that means is FDA is legally bound to approve MDMA for PTSD if these studies generate statistically significant evidence of efficacy and there's no new safety problems arise. The thing for us, because MDMA is such a popular drug under the name ecstasy, tens and tens and tens of millions of people have taken it. We have, you know, 30 plus more 40 years, you know, more than 40 years now of experience with it. And so we know the safety profile. So we feel pretty confident about that. So we got this um breakthrough therapy designation from FDA in August of 2017. In July 2017 we got the um agreement letter and then in 2018 is when we started phase three. And we have to do two 100 person phase three studies. And you know, there's a what's called a um pivotal and then a confirmatory study. So, it took us from 2018 to um 2020 to um finish the first um phase three study and we published the results this year um May 10th in Nature Medicine. And we're also now by the way, we've negotiated with the European Medicines Agency as well. And we're starting to train therapists throughout Europe to do phase three in Europe. The EMA will accept our US data and our phase three studies are in Israel, Canada, and the US. So, we will, if we get permission, get permission in all three of those countries. And then now we're bringing that to Europe as well and also Australia, Brazil, and and other places. We're trying to globalize. So, the results of our first phase three study um were just better than we could have hoped. And there's multiple different ways that you evaluate it, but the first and most you could say the lowest level is is it statistically significant. And so, statistical significance is of the P values, the probability values and is 0.05. So, what that means is like a a nickel on a dollar. If if if there's a one in 20 chance or less that what you found is due to random factors instead of your intervention, then it's called statistically significant. And you need two of those. And so, one in 20 for the first one and one in 20 for the second one, that's really one in 400 chance that if you have two statistically significant studies that it's due to some random factor rather than your intervention. All right. So, our first study was statistically significant. But, it wasn't .05. The FDA has a special program under certain circumstances, you can get approval on the basis of one phase three study. And to do that, you need .001, which means one in a thousand chance that it's random factors rather than your intervention. So, that's even higher than two independent studies, one in 20, one in 20, one in 400 chance. So, if you have a one in a thousand chance that it's random, you can then proceed to talk about getting approval on the basis of one phase three study. What we actually got was .0001. One in 10,000 chance that it's random factors. Now, statistical significance isn't enough because if you have large numbers of subjects in the study, you can get statistical significance for effects that are very small. The more people that you add, the more you you sort of even out random factors. And so, if your effect is kind of small, you can still get statistical significance if you have large numbers of subjects. So, you can have statistical significance, but clinically not very significant. All right. So, there's another measure called effect size, which has been used more and more to kind of equalize across studies, what's the magnitude of the effect. And so, an effect size of one is one standard deviation away from the norm. And so, that's a that's considered a very a large effect size. The drugs that FDA has approved for PTSD, Zoloft and Paxil, had small or barely intermediate effect size. You know, .3, .4, .56 was the effect sizes of and you can also have failed studies. You only need two successful phase three studies, but you can try four or five times. You just need to get two of them. And so, Paxil, I think, had tried three times, and one of them completely failed. Woah. Yeah. So, what we got is an effect and there's two ways to look at the effect size. And it's the more normal way is called placebo subtracted. So, in in traditional research, you know, you give people a drug and you give them a capsule that has no drug in it. And then you compare that. So, you you sort of subtract the placebo effect from your main effect. That's placebo subtracted. The way our phase three studies are designed, um there's no real um placebo in the sense. It's therapy with an inactive placebo versus therapy with active MDMA. So, the placebo condition is therapy and a lot of it. It's 42 hours of therapy with a male-female co-therapy team with two therapists. So, there's a So, the placebo condition is significant in terms of uh the intervention. So, our placebo subtracted effect size, which means that we're subtracting therapy plus MDMA from therapy without MDMA. So, it leaves just the MDMA. was 0.91, a large effect size. But, within the subjects, because it's never going to be just here's the MDMA, it's always going to be therapy plus MDMA, the effect size was 2.1. It's astounding, two standard deviations from the norm. It's just astounding. Now, none of that would matter if you had a terrible safety profile. So, we had a situation where we had one woman try to kill herself twice during the study. And we had another woman that had such severe suicidal ideation that she checked herself into a hospital to avoid killing herself. And as it turned out, both of them were in the placebo group, not the MDMA group. We had nobody in the MDMA group try to hurt themselves. And so we had an excellent safety record from that way. We had a lot There are some safety issues, you could say side effects, that are acute from the the MDA. So muscle tightness is one, sweating is another. Um you know, but the side effects that we did notice were all short-lived, acute from the MDMA. They were fine the next day and they were not serious. So we had a great safety record. And then there's one other thing, which is back to the efficacy. The FDA We had 15 sites. Two sites in Israel, two in Canada, 11 throughout the United States. And so you have to do a statistical analysis about site-to-site variations. So what the FDA doesn't want to see is that most of your phase three subjects come from one or two sites, and these are highly trained, motivated people, and they get great results, but at all the other sites, doesn't work so well, and then that suggests you can't really scale it. So we had no site-to-site variability. Wow. And we think that's in part because of our training of therapists, but we think it's more due to MDMA. So we had every kind of um condition to get approved on the basis of one phase three study. And so we applied to the FDA, and they said no. They said that um we want more safety data, we want to see the second phase three study. But then the irony was a couple after a a months, what happened is the FDA approved a drug for Alzheimer's. People may have heard about that. On the basis of no phase three studies. They had failed phase three studies, but then they did a reanalysis about a subpopulation, and they had a lot of safety problems. So, that has turned into a big scandal for FDA, and it's being evaluated, and and not only that, but it was for um early um you know, Alzheimer's, um but then they approved it for people anywhere on the spectrum, and it was be super expensive, and so, any case, what we're having to do is um finish the second phase three study. And the big reality check for us is going to come in May of 2022. And that's when we have what's called the interim analysis of the second phase three study. A data monitoring committee looks at the unblinded data, and their goal is to only tell me a number. The number is either zero or whatever. And it's about how many people you need to add to get statistical significance. So, it's 60% of the data. So, if you if the number is zero, that means you're fine to get statistical significance, you don't need to add anybody. If you get a number, you need to add the As I said before, that the more people that you get into your study, the easier it is to find smaller and smaller differences. Or they will say, "Give it up. It's futile. You're never going to get statistical significance." So, there's only one other drug that got breakthrough for PTSD by the FDA. A drug called Tonix Pharmaceutical. By a pharmaceutical company, Tonix Pharmaceutical. And as it turned out, um they failed in phase three for futility. They were never going to make it. Um they failed several times in phase three. So, we're the only breakthrough therapy drug left for PTSD. And the study will be done in October of 2022. And then if the results are good, then we apply to the FDA for approval, and it'll take us a couple months to analyze the data, and then it takes the FDA around 6 months to review it. And so we think by the third quarter of 2023, we will have FDA approval assuming the second phase three study goes well. And then by the fourth quarter, DEA has to reschedule. So, normally if it's a drug that's not a illegal schedule drug, FDA says yes, automatically it's available as a medicine by prescription. But because MDMA is a controlled substance in schedule one, the DEA must approve it with must reschedule within 90 days. And so we're trying to work with various experts in abuse liability. So, we think by the end of 2023, we will hopefully have approval in the US for prescription use of MDMA for PTSD. We think Europe and England will be a year or more behind, but they're likely to do that. And then if we have approval from FDA and European Medicines Agency, then almost all the other countries of the world will end up approving it without new data. We just have to train local therapists. So, that's kind of where we're at right now. We're at this um really important moment. We've enrolled 65 of the 100 people in the second phase three study. And I just want to add one other point. So, in phase three in phase two, what we showed, we do the two-month follow-up. So, it's three MDMA sessions one month apart with 12 90-minute non-drug psychotherapy sessions. Three before the first for preparation and to get building what's called the therapeutic alliance for for patients and therapists get to know each other, get to trust each other so that the patient feels safe. And then we have three 90-minute non-drug um psychotherapy sessions for integration after each MDMA session. And then we do the 2-month follow-up, and that's what it's called the primary outcome measure. And that's where FDA looks to compare the groups, but then we've also done a 12-month follow-up. And that's more for the insurance companies to show that it if is it durable or not. Because if you could have great results, but if it fades very quickly, the insurance companies aren't going to pay it for it. So, and also this is labor intensive, and it's more expensive than just giving somebody a pill. So, if we end up doing that um you know, that this idea that we um can show that it's durable, then we're likely to not just get it approved, but get it covered by insurance. So, that that's the key factor there. So, in phase two, we summarized all these different studies. And what we showed is that in the people that were in the control group there was uh 21% no longer had PTSD. Now, that's actually pretty good for on average severe PTSD that's been more than a decade on the average. And all and everybody was treatment resistant in phase two. They'd all had either SSRIs or psychotherapy, and they still had moderate to severe, but on the average severe PTSD. So, 21% was really pretty good. But, when you add MDMA, it was 56%. More than twice as good. And those are people that no longer qualified for a diagnosis of PTSD. But, many of the others had what's called a clinically significant reduction of PTSD symptoms. So, that if we could have given them another fourth MDMA session, maybe they would also be down below the cutoff for being diagnosed with PTSD. All right, all that's great, but what's even greater is the 12-month follow-up data was 67% no longer had PTSD. So, people kept getting better. Not only was it durable, but they kept getting it better. And the key there is because we're training people to heal themselves. That's the the concept here is that there's this inner wisdom of what emerges when you alter this barrier between the conscious and the unconscious mind, stuff comes up. We encourage people to experience it and express it. We don't use the word guide. We're not people's guides. We don't know what's We don't know as much about them as they do. And we need to help them as they try to encounter diff- difficult memories, difficult emotions. But we kind of teach them not to be overwhelmed and how to let it out and how to get to the bottom of it. And So it's different than SSRIs and other things that are traditional for PTSD where it controls symptoms, but it never gets at the root of the problem. And if you start uh to say you're ready to stop taking the medicine, then a lot of times your problems come back. So that's perfect for the pharma companies, right? You got a daily medicine you got to take forever and if you stop taking it your problems come back. Ours is a completely different approach. Different approach. We only give MDMA to you three times. Sometimes it'll be four or so, but what we want to do is get to the root of the problem and then make it so that you've learned how to heal yourselves and you don't need MDMA anymore. And then you can start this process where you can continue to get better on on your own. And so now for the phase three results that we got from our first phase two. I've just shared with you the phase two results. So um the phase three results turned out to be um even better than we had anticipated and even better than um phase two. So, what we showed is in the control group um 32% Now, these are severe PTSD patients, average 14 years. And I should add that we felt that because of the stigma of psychedelics that we needed to work with the hardest cases. And what that means is for PTSD that the hardest cases are people that have attempted to kill themselves already. And so we enroll them. We That's not an exclusion criteria. For a lot of PTSD studies, they exclude people who've tried to kill themselves. There's another group that's called that's very difficult to treat called um dissociative subtype. So, what that means is when you're traumatized a lot of times the strategy if you're being physically hurt or something is you just dissociate. You're not there. You kind of move away in your mind. But that's a good coping strategy sometimes for being in moments of trauma, but then you tend to not be able to get past it because whenever you you know, stop the dissociation, then you're encountering all these painful emotions and then they're overwhelming and so the dissociative subtype is considered very difficult to treat and also people with complex PTSD from childhood who have poor attachment. So, actually we we've worked with Bessel van der Kolk who wrote The Body Keeps the Score. He's a world expert in PTSD, New York Times excellent book. He's the principal investigator of our Boston site. And he said initially don't work with these people with attachment disorders. MDMA is not going to help them because they just need so much more. It's so difficult. And we said, "No, look at our phase two data. We're going to include them." And as it turned out um the people on the dissociative subtype actually did better on average than the people who are not on the dissociative subtype. I think they're so hungry for that kind of connection that once you provide it, they just make so much more progress. All right, so again, this is um, severe PTSD people averaged um, 14 years of PTSD. 1/3 of the people had PTSD over 20 years. We had um, a 1/3 of the people had their primary PTSD was from childhood. So, you know, the the reason it was only 14 years is cuz we're enrolling a lot of veterans and others who have more recent combat trauma and other things like that. So, 32% was in the control group no longer had PTSD, but in the MDMA group, it was 67%. So, again, more than twice as good, better than our phase two, and we don't yet have the 12-month follow-up data. So, we are we're working to see, but if it follows the same pattern as phase two, we hope we'll see that it's even better than 67% that no longer have PTSD. So, we'll have that data in a couple months. So, that's basically where we're at with the research and you know, we are starting a um, group therapy study. We're waiting to hear from the FDA um, about that. Uh, in a couple weeks we'll hear from the FDA. That would be at the Portland VA. We've been trying to do work inside the VA system since 1990. Uh, the first person was treated um, October 12th inside the VA. So, we're making progress there. We're working with Rachel Yehuda at the Bronx VA to try to do research there. They're screening and they're almost ready to, um, administer it. Um, we've done work with what's called cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy. Conjoint means couples or dyads. So, it's where one person has PTSD, but it affects the relationship. And both people are brought into this therapy, cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy, the person with PTSD and their partner. Or significant other in some way. And so, um, we did a small pilot study with six dyads where both get MDMA. And the results were better than anything ever done before with cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy without MDMA, both in the reduction of PTSD symptoms and in the strength of the relationship. And so, MDMA is great for couples therapy. Um, and this is kind of a a better way to look at couples therapy. We're also trying to blend MDMA with prolonged exposure, cognitive processing therapy, cognitive behavioral therapy. Um, various of the key therapies used by the VA. So, I think the thing to emphasize here is that MDMA is not the treatment. The treatment is therapy. And the MDMA makes the therapy more effective. And there can be different kinds of therapy that are used with it. We have our own treatment manual that people can see on the MAPS website. Um, I do I guess this is a good point for me to say that we're trying to, um, increase our membership and trying to get more monthly members. So, if anybody wants to become a member of MAPS, um, we've greatly appreciated it to support our work. We've raised $130 million in the history of in the history of, uh, MAPS in, uh, donations or grants. And so, we want to build up our monthly donor campaign. Um, but where we're at right now is, um, really thinking about the key factor with to scaling, which is the training of therapists. Because as I said, it's therapy, not the drug. So, we're going to need thousands and thousands and thousands of trained therapists. We're We're planning to try to train 25,000 therapists in this decade. And if we can do that, we'll treat a million We'll have a million MDMA sessions. And we think it'll be sort of on the average of about half a million people. That That maybe some people will have one session or two, some people have three or four, but we're just assuming in the range of the two session model on the average. So, that's our goal is to train 25,000 therapists, have a million MDMA sessions, and then have um have roughly half a million people treated. And that doesn't count group therapy. Um or um you know, so potentially those numbers could be higher. Wow. Well, well, Rick, first off, thank you so much for sharing your entire story. I really appreciate cuz I I heard little bits and pieces, but it was a real honor to get to hear everything that went into your struggle because that is I mean, struggle is a weird way to put it. Everything that you went through to get to where you are now, it's incredible. Okay, so um So, here's a story that um using using the word struggle. So, you really helped me. And so, this I think is So, I don't get to know the patients, right? Cuz all the privacy. The only kind time I know is when they reach out. And so, there is somebody who I don't know who it is, but he reached out to his therapist with a couple paragraphs about what his therapy was like. This was a veteran. He was a pilot uh in the Marines. And so, I I was shared these these paragraphs. And what the person said is that um he was like a walking skeleton. And that he'd had PTSD for many, many years. And that he would just be overwhelmed by all the struggles that he had and he would always be talking about his struggles. So, he said in his first MDMA experience, and again it's three, but in the first MDMA experience, he started talking about his struggles. And this was around the 1-hour mark, around the time where MDMA really starts to to come on. It takes a while. You take it, it doesn't happen right away. So, he said when he started his usual story about all his struggles, the MDMA he could feel it and he burst out crying. And he said he hadn't cried in over 15 years. Wow. And then he said, "And then I knew I would live." Aw. "And then I knew I would live." So, he got that sense that this process was going to be healing. But this was before he'd done all this hard work, but he knew he would live. That this process was great and so that was Thank you for bringing the word struggle into this. I love it. I love that synchronicity. That's beautiful. And and before I forget, as you mentioned training enough therapists, we had Shannon Carlin on. So, if anybody listening is interested in becoming a therapist, go back to a few months ago and listen to the episode with Shannon. She talks all about your your therapist training program. Anyone interested because yes, we need we need people to become MAPS members. We need people to become a therapist. Lots of of pieces to this puzzle. Um just a few questions left for you, Rick. What's in phase four cuz I know that I've heard this question come up in in some of the uh uh conferences, but I I think there's a requirement for younger populations, correct? Yes. Yes. Yes. So, um Yeah, people are often really surprised by this, but the FDA has required us, if we succeed in adults, which are defined as 18 years or older. We must do pediatric studies, 12 to 17 year olds. And the FDA even provides incentives for doing it. And the reason is a lot of drugs are approved in adults but never studied in kids. And so they're prescribed off label in kids. But kids may react differently. And so we are going to have to do studies in 12 to 17 year olds. If that works, we have to do 7 to 11 year olds. And I think one of the things that we realize is that we want to help people closer to the trauma. And so we do a lot of work with veterans, but we want to move into the Department of Defense to help people closer to the trauma. Or in the police and fire and first responders, we want to treat them after traumatic experiences. But the same is true with kids. We want to move from people who do have childhood And I said in our our phase three study, 1/3 of the people primary trauma was from childhood. And so we have good anecdotal evidence suggestions that it'll probably work really well in kids. So that's what we have to do for phase four. Now, what FDA also wants us to do is to do more studies with people who relapse. Not everybody that gets um treated is going to stay PTSD free. You know, life keeps trauma- traumatizing people. And there's there's there's difficulty with life. It's very stressful. So we have to track relapse. And then what happens? Can we give somebody one session after they've been through the treatment? Maybe that's enough to get them back. And then the other that thing that the FDA wants us to do, and this is also for the insurance companies, is to try to figure out how to predict ahead of time who's going to respond and who's not going to respond. Because this is a labor-intensive expensive process. And if we can predict who's going to respond, then it goes to those people. But, I should say that right now we have no idea. We don't know how to predict, and I don't know if we ever figure it out. There's kind of this um element of choice that the patients The thing about MDMA that's different from LSD is when you take LSD or psilocybin or these other kind of things, and your ego is dissolved and stuff comes up, you know, you kind of have to surrender to it. The key to LSD is surrender. But, with MDMA, you can negotiate with it a little bit. And so, there's this way in which there's a choice people need to make about are they going to open up to the difficult parts? And that's the relationship with the therapist. Do they feel safe? Are they ready? You know, how much strong is the MDMA effect? So, I don't know that we will ever be able to predict ahead of time who's going to respond and who's not going to respond. But, we might be. So, that's another phase worth thing. That's what we have to do. Oh, very interesting. I I hadn't thought about that, studies on relapse and kind of the prediction element. So, very cool. Um you had mentioned something at Insight that I loved, and I would love to kind of sum this up by you shared your vision of what you see a few decades down the road with this. Uh if you could if you could describe what you had uh Yeah. had portrayed us. Okay, so let's go back to the very beginning, which is that what's the goal? The goal is mass mental health. You know, humanity is at a crisis. We're having um destruction of the environment, you know, rise of authoritarianism, incredible destructive weaponry. So, we need mass mental health. And there's a lot of people that have PTSD, depression, addiction, all these things. And that's the drug development route. Uh but, there's a lot of us that uh don't necessarily have a diagnosis, but we're still struggling. Life is a struggle. As we said. and also, you know, you read the newspaper and you see what's going on. It's It's very scary times. So, we need drug policy reform on one hand to provide legal access to the way it was before MDMA was criminalized that I described where we have, you know, honest education and pure drugs and harm reduction and treatment on demand and peer support. So, what I think is going to happen going forward is at the end of 2023, MDMA becomes medicine by prescription. Um end of 2024-25, we do that in Europe. Psilocybin is going to be coming along for depression and other things, uh addiction, eating so We'll see what that's going to happen. Also, we have uh marijuana uh medical marijuana and marijuana legalization. So, I think in 2025, we're likely to have the federal government say that they're ending federal prohibition of marijuana. The same way we did with alcohol where it's now up to the states. So, I think that's going to happen in 2025. Now, right now, we do have ketamine. Yes, ketamine has been approved and for depression. And there are about 700 or so ketamine clinics in the United States. So, those are going to be the base, at least the fraction of those that combine ketamine with therapy cuz those therapists then want to be cross-trained with MDMA, with LSD, with psilocybin, all these things as they get approved. So, I think what we're going to have from 2025 to 2035 is the rollout um you know, 5,000 psychedelic clinics in the United States alone. There'll be more in Canada, more in Mexico, more in Europe, but we'll have like 10,000 clinic I mean, 6,000 or so clinics in this decade. And they will then tell stories to people that they know about the healings that they experienced. And we've had surveys that have looked at why is somebody in favor of legalizing marijuana? Number one factor, they know a medical marijuana patient. There's so much propaganda, they don't know what to believe, but they know somebody, they hear that it's worked, it's not this demon drug. That changes their attitudes. Why should it be illegal? So, I think we're going to have the same thing. Medicalization of psychedelics will lead towards um legal access. We're already seeing decrim efforts happening all over the country with different cities and states to decriminalize plant psychedelics, sometimes all drugs. So, I think by 2035, we're going to move into a situation that um I've been calling licensed legalization. It'll be legalization, but it's different than the way we normally think of it in that um there's going to be a mechanism that if you misbehave under a drug, then it we also make it harder for you to get the drug. And this is what we should be doing for alcohol. We have all these people that have drunk drivers, they lose their driver's license, but they can still go into a liquor store or bar and get drunk. Yeah. So, we should make it harder for those people to go ahead and actually um get alcohol. So, it should be like that, I think, for drugs. So, I think 2035, we have um licensed legalization, and then I think over the next uh generation and a half, you could say by 2070, I think we will have a more um enough people have spiritualized humanity, enough to sort of steer the ocean liner away from the iceberg, and so we don't go down like the Titanic. Now, that's the long-term plan. Uh beautiful. Thank I love that. I love finishing on that. I remember seeing you tell us that at Insight, and I think that just the entire crowd got so hopeful with you. Cuz we love that vision. We share that with you. So, um Rick, thank you for 35 plus plus years of dedicating your life to this. Thank you for all the healing you've brought to people. Thank you for the on behalf of the entire psychedelics industry that owes so much to you for giving us jobs. And and I love to wrap up by anything that you would like the listeners to go check out to become members. Please the floor is yours. Yeah, well, there's the most um patient-centered documentary ever made about MDMA therapy for PTSD is called the Trip of Compassion. And so I would encourage people if you're really interested to go look at it's on Vimeo, but you costs a couple bucks, but you look at Trip of Compassion. It's about three of our Israeli patients, but where it's in Hebrew it's with English subtitles. A lot of it's in English. So I think Trip of Compassion would be really good for people to um to watch. Then also Stanislav who's sort of the pioneer of all of all this really the world's foremost psychedelics. He just turned 90. Um one of the founders of transpersonal psychology, you know, the developer of holotropic breathwork and my mentor and Michael Mithoefer's mentor. Um he's written a book called the Way of the Psychonaut which is a two volume book and it's because it is sort of it's like an encyclopedia for the new generation. And it's the summary of his life's work. So I would encourage people to to go to the MAPS website and if you wanted to to order um the Way of the Psychonaut. And it's a really good summary of you know, earlier his books were Realms of the Human Unconscious, Observations from LSD Research and he's written a lot. Um so I think those are the two main ways that people can um get more information. And then the other thing I'd like to mention that there are now psychedelics societies in many cities all over America all over the world. And so, if you're interested in this, I would say um connect up to the psychedelic societies in your community, host lectures. We need a lot of public education. It looks like we might actually succeed getting these drugs uh approved by the FDA for prescription medicines, but what we really need is public education, word of mouth. So, I'd say people get involved in local psychedelic societies. And the last thing I'll say is that we are now planning for the world's largest conference on psychedelics ever, which is going to be in June 2023 in Denver. And we're calling it psychedelic science, psychedelic city. We we've had a psychedelic science conference in 2010, then one in 2013, and then the 2017 one was 3,000 people, the world's largest psychedelic science conference, the world's largest psychedelic conference ever. So, now we're planning for 10,000 people. We've got the Denver Convention Center. We've got thousands of hotel rooms we've already reserved. We're going to have music at all these different venues, and it's going to be uh over about 6 days. We're going to try to have ceremonies of different kinds, because we think there's a good chance November 2022 there'll be a drug decrim bill on the uh ballot in um Colorado, also something similar to the Oregon psilocybin initiative. So, we think we can legally have kind of an experiential component to this conference. So, we'd like to just encourage people to think about that in their calendars. More information on the MAPS website about that. And we'll all gather and celebrate what we're calling the doorway to the new world, being the new world of prescription access and rolling out psychedelic clinics. Wow, I'm very much looking forward to that. I just thought it was a conference. I had no idea about the other component. So, this is Oh my god, it's going to be way more than a conference. Oh my gosh, it's it's been on my calendar since you guys first mentioned it. So now I'm I'm extra excited. Rick, I cannot thank you enough. Um everybody listening, please go to maps.org, check out the movies. We'll put everything in the show notes, Trip of Compassion and all of all of Stan Grof's books. We'll put everything there. The we'll put a link to the training episode with Shannon Carlin. Great. Yeah, absolutely. Thank you again so much for your work and thank you for sharing all of your time and and your story with us today. Yeah, thank you for having me. It's been a pleasure. Absolutely. All right, for everybody else out there, until next time.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 1iKwP7Nxu6w (https://youtu.be/1iKwP7Nxu6w) ===

What could I possibly tell you about Rick Dublin that you don't already know? In some parallel dimension where Rick and Maps don't exist, we're all still sitting in gloomy faculty sellers, drinking coffee from crack mugs and dreaming of funding. Rick founded MAPS almost 50 years ago and since then has led the charge in establishing legal frameworks for the therapeutic use of psychedelics and marijuana as prescription medicines and tools for personal growth. With MDMA, MAPS is on the brink of being the first ever organization to crowdfund a drug through the entire clinical testing and approval process, requiring something like $2 billion worth of community support. In the wake of last year's shock ruling, Rick is here to talk to us today about the future of MDMA and the FDA. Please welcome to the stage Rick Doblin. >> Wow, thank you. Um um before I begin my um slide presentation, I I would just like to say several things. Um the the first is that I want to echo something that Ethan Nadleman said about how Iceland could be a model for the world. And because of its small size and because of kind of the mystical nature of a lot of people in Iceland, but also because a lot of the challenges that they have with alcoholism, substance abuse, depression, that Iceland has the opportunity to be a country that has fully integrated psychedelics throughout its entire system. And I think this might take 10 years or so, but it could be a leading example for what I've been talking about as net zero trauma by 2070. that Iceland, if it can introduce this into the national health insurance, that into the education system, honest drug education, into working with uh recently released people from prison to reduce recidivism, that Iceland has this model opportunity because of its scale and size to be an example for the rest of the world. Um the the other thing that I'd like to say is it um doesn't actually cost $2 billion to make a drug into a medicine. And the reason that they use these numbers is that a lot of that is what's called opportunity cost, which means the pharmaceutical companies are for-profit companies. And the money that they would have invested in other things at a pretty high rate of return is counted as part of the costs of doing drug development. And they also am advertise all the failures into the few successes. So that actually if you have something that you know works and you do a direct line, it can be done for several hundred million dollars. So the $2 billion is used as an example to try to justify the high prices that pharma companies want to charge for their drugs, but it's not actually that cost. And and we have not actually been able to um raise all the money from donors, which I had hoped. I'll explain that a bit more. But this um concept here is that after the FDA rejection, it was really heartbreaking to see what had happened. But over time, and it didn't take me that much time, and this conference has really reinforced that, that maps could completely cease to exist. LOS could completely cease to exist, but the movement, the culture, the the whole community is going to move forward. And you see from all the talks at this conference how vibrant the ecosystem has been that has been created and it's that's what's going to move forward. And the number of people that have talked to me at these at this particular conference about healings that they've gotten from psychedelics is just so inspirational that it's really going to continue regardless of whatever happens to maps and loss. But I'm going to tell you what I think is kind of a hopeful story for how maps and loss will continue to go forward. So keeping that in mind um what I want to start with uh just a little bit is that I started maps in ' 86 um I really at 18 when I was 1972 when I was just doing a bunch of LSD and masculine I realized that um this is what I wanted to devote my life towards and I felt that myself as humans and us as a human species are way overdeveloped in our intellect. and are underdeveloped in our emotional and spiritual development. Um Io Wilson has said the real problem with humanity is that we have paleolithic emotions with medieval institutions with godlike technologies. And so we really need to accelerate, I think, our emotional and spiritual development in order to handle the technologies that that we're developing. And so as part of my movement towards um becoming a a psychedelic therapist that I wanted to do when I was 18, um by the time that I was ready to try to get into a clinical psych program, I was rejected at all these places because it had been just a few years after MDMA was criminalized. And so what I do when I'm stuck in a box, I often decide to smoke marijuana. And then I get creative ideas about how to get. So this particular idea was one of the best ideas that I've had in my whole life. I might have had it when I wasn't stoned, but I did happen to have it. And this was this idea that I want too much too fast. That this is a pattern of my life. I want too much too soon. And in this case, I wanted to do the science, but the politics was in the way. And so I had this thought, okay, I have to switch my whole life and study the politics. And so that's what led me to the Kennedy School to get my masters in PhD in public policy. And what I had thought initially was that when I started MAPS in ' 86 that MDMMA would become a generic drug that it was invented by Merc in 1912. It was in the public domain. That I learned about MDMA in 1982 and it had already been used for quite a few years as a therapy drug. and it was a therapy drug before it became um a party drug. And so the use of MDMA as a tool to help psychotherapy was also in the public domain. And I didn't really understand enough about patents, but I assumed that there was no patents and that MDMA would become a generic. I even did my dissertation on FDA regulation of psychedelics and marijuana in 2001. But it wasn't until 2014, 28 years after I started maps, that I realized that even though I thought I knew everything I needed to know, I had missed something fundamental. Whenever you think you know everything you need to know about something, it's a danger sign. But in this case, what I missed was that there was this obscure um policy that actually had been signed into law in 1984 by Ronald Reagan to provide incentives for developing drugs that are off patent. And these incentives are called data exclusivity. So the the FDA regulatory agencies won't give you patents if you don't actually have original inventions, but they will say that as a pharmaceutical company, you have exclusive use of your data for a certain period of time. The difference is if a patent somebody else does that you can block them but here other companies can develop their own data. You just have exclusive use of your own data. So once I realized that and I realized how much money we were had raised and would continue to need to raise, I thought let's start a public benefit pharmaceutical company that is forprofit but it would be 100% owned by the nonprofit and it would be public benefit but then we could use data exclusivity to charge a higher price than a generic price and with that resources use them for additional research and additional training of therapists and that I thought would be sort of this virtuous circle and that was something that I was able to tell donors if you help us make MDMMA into medicine then we will be self-funding for a period of time. So that's where in 2014 we started the maps public benefit corporation. So I'm speaking to you today not as a representative of LICOS but as the president of MAPS. Now it was so fortunate for us that the universe decided to celebrate our uh 38th anniversary with a full solar eclipse through much of the United States. And so that was on our 38th April 8th. So April 8th coming up will be our 39th year at MAPS. And this was a picture taken at the U eclipse that that we were at. Now this is the logo of MAPS by Alex Gray. And what is so important about this is that you can see that the hands are before the psychedelics. And what that means is that it's really the therapy that makes the difference. What we're trying to do is bring out therapeutic processes that are facilitated by psychedelics. And I think a lot of the current companies, the for-profit companies in the psychedelic field have gotten the wrong message that we need to move away from the therapy, that the FDA doesn't regulate therapy, that we need to focus just on the pharmarmacological effects of the drug. And we see that with Spravado, which from a pharmaceutical perspective is a massive success because they've just hit over a billion dollars annual sales. So it's a blockbuster and they've done that without any therapy. But it doesn't work as well when you don't use it with the Loen talked about that as well earlier today. So this concept of putting the therapist first is really the message that we're trying to communicate by this logo. Now as a nonprofit maps we have three major objectives advancing research. There will be a lot of research that will be advanced out of the pharmaceutical company but we tend to do research for global humanitarian projects things that are non-monetizable in different ways. we want to change policy. It's kind of a parallel track. It's a little bit different um and difficult to explain sometimes. But on the one hand, we believe and we are working towards psychedelics to be administered under direct supervision of trained therapists in a highly regulated context covered by insurance. And at the same time we believe that they should be legally available to people as Ethan was talking about with any kind of without any kind of requirement for training for screening that people should have this access as a fundamental human right to change and alter your consciousness as a fundamental aspect of freedom of thought. So that's on a parallel track and maps and the Beckley Foundation have been about the only organizations that have really said that these are the two different goals. One is highly medicalized, the other is sort of drug policy reform and and access where you get um punished or rewarded based on your behavior and not on your state of consciousness. And in order to do these things, in order to do the research and to change the policy, we really need to shape the culture. Culture is u has been said is that politics is downstream of culture. That it's the cultural change, the cultural fears that have been so persuasive and pervasive about psychedelics that block psychedelic research for decades throughout the world. So, one of the main ways that we change culture is through conferences, through speaking out. But I I just want to say to to everybody that there is something that you can all do that is uh Kasha talked earlier today about the um what she's learned from the AIDS community and the progress that the AIDS community has and gay rights and gay marriage. But the key thing that they did was coming out and that's a big part of what this conference is about. But I think all of us have this opportunity to come out about our psychedelic experiences for those of you that have them, whether positive or negative, and just to share them with with people, with your family members, with your parents or your children or or friends. It's this coming out that for me is this main lesson that I draw from the AIDS community. And that's I think how we change culture. And I think one of the things that we're looking forward to is we've had a fair amount of people, but we need a lot more coming out about their own personal experiences and how psychedelics help them. But the next step is really about families. Is how do people bring these healings to their families or I've had stories here of even people that have introduced their parents to psychedelics and how helpful that was for the family. So, we need more of these family stories to come out and we're um organizing uh this big psychedelic science conference in Denver um June 16th to 20th. I'd like to invite u all of you to it. Um the last one we had in 2023 was 12,400 people. It was just incredible. One of the things I really like about this conference is that it's a single track and so everybody's kind of getting the same kind of uh input and information but we're going to have eight or nine simultaneous tracks at this conference. So it's uh impossible to digest it all but it's to get a feeling of what the entire field is doing around the world. So, MAPS was funded. We've raised about more than $150 million in donations and in addition to that, we've gotten a lot of donated labor and donated expertise and people working um below market and that we've been able to really build on this and at the same time what our mission now is mostly about uh drug policy reform, legalization and globalization. And by globalization, I mean spreading um psychedelic therapy research and access all over the world, particularly to high trauma, low resource areas of the world. And I'll talk more about that later today. Lose um when I was um 21 to 23, I raised an Alaskan timberwolf. Um I got it from the Humane Society and I learned a lot. But I was a really shy person at the time and insecure and so uh but I was looking for a dog and a friend of mine said, "Hey, the Humane Society is putting out this ad for wolves. Does anybody want to take care of these wolves?" So, and this was in Florida, a fullbred Alaskan timberwolf. So, um I thought, "Oh, this is great. I can go running with the wolf in the woods. I can, you know, do all this." And so I asked for the most dominant of the litter which was a litter of eight so that I could learn confidence. So I spent a lot of time with this wolf loss um means wolf. Um there was a period of time where I felt that the maps public benefit corp which we had created in 2014 by this time we had taken um resources from investors and that was changing the priorities in ways that I didn't feel comfortable with. And so I finally felt yes if you want to change the name go change the name and they changed it to LOS sort of about their uh the earlier history. Now LIOS has raised about 150 million in investor money and they rebranded. MAPS is the largest single shareholder in the company and we have appointed the majority of the board but we enforced more of a separation so that the LCOS would move more independently. um this is what a lot of the investors want and that's where I lost control and that's where I felt the priorities uh shifted and changed to um result in a company that really acted in a traditional way for something that is not traditional. When you are doing something innovative, you need to be proactive in your communications. You need to be constantly educating the regulatory agencies. And what I felt was not happening was that this company was trying to act in more traditional ways and not feeling confident about the therapy, about the need for therapy, wanting to do things in a more traditional way. Um, and so I was searching u for the last year, year and a half for new investors. I knew that um additional money would be necessary that would end up changing the direction and putting more focus on public benefit. And so the Financial Times published this article this. So uh Antonio Graciios happens to be um leading this effort to invest and to um assume operational control over LICOS. And I feel that um the way that we we've known each other for about four years, but the way that we met to discuss this situation about LICOS was this incredible serendipity and it was at Burning Man. So, this is one of those, this happened to me at Burning Man stories. Um, and there was a um an exhibit called We Will Dance Again, and it was for the survivors of the Nova Rave that was attacked by Hamas on October 7th. And the idea, we will dance again. We have survived. Um, and so at sunrise on the Saturday morning, they had um a ceremony from 6:00 am till 6:29 a.m. to um memorialize the people that had been murdered or kidnapped. And at 6:29, they started the dance party. And they had a a DJ that was there. They knew the set list. They knew where the music had stopped. And so they decided to start the dance party at the note that was the next note that would have been played if the attack hadn't stopped. the party and there was thousands of people dancing, celebrating after this sunrise ceremony. And who should be dancing right next to me but Antonio Gracias. And so that's where we started having this discussion about what's going on with Lyos. And so there's still negotiations. I think it's going to be resolved uh fairly soon. So I'm very hopeful that there will be a new public benefit spirit at at LCOS. Now, one of the things that I I've said before about the hands, it's about the training of therapists. And so, MAPS has this program to train therapists around the world. We've already done two trainings here in Iceland, and we've done uh two in Sievo. Um, and so we've done others um in Australia, in in Israel. We're talking about more around the world. uh we have a training coming up in Ukraine at the end of April to train Ukrainian therapists. And so there's three basic steps to how we approach the training of therapists. Now, usually we want to work with therapists that have been licensed, have have had experience as therapists. And we know from the traditional um use, indigenous use of Iawaska, of mushrooms, of peyote, that it can take years and years and years to really become a proficient shaman or a proficient um sufficiently skilled person to really help others through psychedelic experiences. So we're not able I think to say because of the scale of the need that we're going to require people to go through years and years of training before they do that. But the first part is they were already trained as therapists. Then the second sort of as a prerequisite or they want to become therapists. Then the next part is that they do the six-day residential program where there's no drugs involved but it's watching videotapes of therapy sessions. It's uh role play. It's understanding our therapeutic method. It's understanding our adherence criteria, our core competencies, and how we have developed the therapeutic approach based on a lot of the work that was originally done for LSD and psilocybin by Stan Grath and others in a transpersonal psychology format. But we want to train people in this approach. And a lot of it is undoing what people have been trained. this idea that you are trying to help people heal themselves and you don't need to intervene as much but you do need to support and support whatever is emerging. The second part of the training is experiential and this is where we get into some challenges with kind of current understanding and regulatory agencies. But the FDA gave us permission for 125 people to go through a protocol to receive MDMA as part of their training in a therapeutic setting. And most of the people that worked on phase two and phase three had their own MDMMA experiences. But it's very important that this be seen as optional. It will never be required that people must have this experience. We want to welcome skeptics. We want to welcome therapists who have either religious or medical reasons why they don't want to do psychedelics and don't want to do MDMA. So we want to strongly encourage but not require. And that's I think a key thing. And then the third part is supervision where once people start working on a PTSD study, we have we do videotape it and then we have adherence raers who watch the videotapes who give notes to supervisors who then speak to the therapist and then we see if they've incorporated that and then they're off on their own. And then post approval, the idea is that the FDA doesn't regulate therapy. The FDA doesn't regulate medicine. So therapists are free to do whatever they want once they've got the basic training. We're not trying to say that therapists must use this method that we've developed. We just want them to know it and then they're free to incorporate it with whatever else that they know. And so we've had trainings in Australia, as I said, Sievo, Iceland, uh coming up in in Ukraine. This is just a an example. Usually they're for 50 or 55 people. Uh this was our joyous northern lights when we did the training here. Um and uh in Israel also we've had a series of trainings and we've got um the program in Israel is for Israelis and Palestinians as well. It's not just for Israelis. And um one of the things that's most um meaningful to me is I've just been invited uh to Beirut by a YPO young president, a business organization to speak in Beirut about MDMMA therapy in Lebanon. And we finally have a opportunity in East Jerusalem with a hospital there that works in uh in the Palestinian areas that is interested in MDMA. So really what we're about is healing for all all sides of the conflict. And it took us now all these years from um 1986 to finally in uh 2022 to complete two phase three studies and then December 11th 2023 we submitted the data to the FDA. The FDA has two months to review the file and decide is all the information in the file that they need to review and they said yes. And so then they said you have a priority review which is 6 months and then things uh were optimistic. Then things started turning around. The pharma company instituted what they called a quiet period which meant that they didn't communicate anything that they should be quiet and not only that but they blocked maps media and me from communicating. And what that did is it left u a vacuum in public communications and then as you get closer and closer to your goals a lot of times those people that are not sympathetic will start objecting when it doesn't seem like you're very close to success they don't really care that much but when you get further so then we had a fair amount of critics and I'm going to go through that in a little bit more detail but the pharma company in a way disarmed themselves from not responding and I think that they also had a fundamental misunderstanding understanding of what science is because what science is is about criticism. You want critics. You welcome critics. They are your allies in trying to understand how solid is your data or what else do you need to do or what did you miss. So instead of saying we welcome these critics and we're going to engage in dialogue, they said we don't want to respond because that brings more attention to the critics. And I think that was one of the things that led to this disaster of the FDA. So the FDA June 4th had this advisory committee meeting and they rejected MDMA and said we we're not convinced of safety. We're not convinced of efficacy. We don't know that we can trust your data. We've all these accusations. You guys are zealots. You used MDMA. Um maybe you've told people not to report adverse events or you've told people to exaggerate their benefits because you're on a world-saving mission. All these critics that were then not addressed. Now, LICOS did something else that I thought was um strategic mistake, which was that we they we had started research in multiple countries in Europe. You'd heard from Loen the the projects that he worked on with MDMA in Norway and we had in the Czech Republic, in Germany, in in England, in the Netherlands. And so, LOS in the beginning of 2023 decided we don't want to fund any of this stuff anymore in Europe. We're concerned about our resources. we want to focus money on developing our commercialization infrastructure for the US. So they shut down Europe which was really um strategically not wise because regulatory agencies are reluctant to be pioneers. They don't want to be the only one out on a limb doing something. So the more you have regulatory agencies from around the world saying yes, we've approved research, the more um the easier it makes for other regulatory agencies like the FDA to go forward. So the Dutch government saw the shutdown of research in Europe and they had seen the unmet medical need being addressed in ways that had never been addressed before. The lead psychiatrist um in the uh Dutch studies, Dr. Eric Vermaten, was the chief psychiatrist for the Dutch Ministry of Defense, and he's a world expert in PTSD. And so what happened was that the Dutch government said, "We need a state committee that we're going to set up and we're going to look at this situation and decide what are we going to do in the Netherlands." Now, the Dutch state committee in a sense was the FDA advisory committee version in the Netherlands except for a couple main differences. They had real subject matter experts who knew what they were doing as compared if you watch the FDA advisory committee a lot of them like I don't really know anything about psychedelics or I don't really know even about therapy and one woman said why do we even need MDMA because our treatments are great they they work for everybody you know what do we need anything new for so the Dutch state committee issued their report two days after the FDA advisory committee if they had issued their report two days before it might have been a whole different story. So, not only did they have subject matter experts, but they had a year to study all the same data the FDA people looked at for a couple weeks and they had to publish a report justifying their findings. And what the report said is that we believe that safety was proven, efficacy was proven and therefore because of the unmet medical need, we need to move forward with naturalist studies, sort of uh compassionate use studies, but where you gather data, real world evidence. And for reasons that are um not good, the um LOS also decided not to tell people about the Dutch state committee. So there were people that just the other day investors in LOS even that talked to me about the they didn't even know about the Dutch state committee. So then with this being unknown with the negative from the Dutch from the FDA advisory committee FDA rejected it and they said that uh they want to see another phase three study now. Okay. So then October 3rd is when the the Dutch uh mental health the parliament and the mental health committee met endorsed the recommendations and you heard from Tadouch earlier today maybe that what he said is the Dutch government is is not so much going to do naturalist studies but they want to fund actual clinical trials which is really really good. All right. So, here is the kind of series of issues that were of concern to the FDA advisory committee. The and functional unblinding, criticizing the therapeutic method, the FDA doesn't regulate therapy, adverse events under reportported, uh participants aren't necessarily safe from therapist misconduct, uh lack of diversity in participants, and bias from prior MDMA experience. These were the sort of accusations the concerns that were raised and I'll I'll sort of go through them one by one. So functional unblinding one of the big things that I did in my dissertation which was in 2001 was to look at the double blind problem. And I know it's very difficult if not impossible. How do you do double blind with drugs that are so strong that they have such an impact that you know you've taken them? And so I did a whole long series of studies uh and and looked at and I thought aha I've got the solution. The solution will be therapy with lowd dose MDMA versus therapy with full dose MDMA. Everybody knows they're going to get MDMA. Everybody has the same expectations. And the challenge is what is the low dose that you use? We know that micro doing doesn't work because it's too low. You're not going to confuse micro doing with a full dose. And if you use doses that are too high that have a lot of therapeutic potential, then you won't tell a difference much of a difference between the two groups. So where is this sweet spot of a drug dose of MDMA that is enough to cause confusion but isn't so strongly therapeutic that it makes it very difficult if not impossible to find a difference between the two groups. So over 16 years of phase two studies what we did is we looked at therapy with inactive placebo with 25 milligrams, 30 milligrams, 40 milligrams, 50, 75, 100, 125 and 150. So we looked at all these and what we discovered to our surprise we did one study with um veterans, firefighters and police officers and one group had 30 milligrams, one had 75 milligrams and one had 125. So what I first want to say is that that we do science but science with a political mindset as well. So in this particular study we added police officers not because we thought we'd get any police officers actually volunteering but we just wanted to send a message. It's for veterans, firefighters, and police officers. And sometimes when you do stuff like that, you're surprised. We actually did have police officers volunteer for the study. But what we discovered to our surprise was that the 75 mgram dose group in this particular study did better than the 125. Now when you randomize it doesn't always make things equal. So the people that had 125 had more depression than the group that had uh 75 milligrams. But what we learned from this study is that this 75 milligram dose group is very effective. I personally, you know, prefer higher doses, but but we we found that it was in a therapeutic context, it was really really effective. So what we also discovered again this was where I was initially wrong in my um dissertation solution was that the lower doses did cause amount of confusion with the fuller doses but they made people uncomfortable and they actually reduced the efficacy of the therapy as compared to therapy with no MDMA at all. So the people that got therapy with no MDMA did better than the people that got these lower doses 25 30 40 50 milligrams and then the 75 milligrams was very effective. So we didn't find a sweet spot of what would be the right dose. Now I'm not saying that this would be the same for psilocybin but this is what we found for MDMA. And so we went to the FDA when we were designing our phase three study. We we spent eight months extra after we were given permission to go to phase three in what's called special protocol assessment process and we negotiated everything and we said here we'll be happy to give you blinding with these lower doses but you're going to make our job easier to find a difference between the two groups because we know that therapy with inactive placebo works even better than therapy with lowd dose and so the FDA themselves decided we would use therapy with inactive placebo versus therapy with full dose MDMA and the first session was going to be uh 70 80 milligrams and then the second and third would be option to go from 80 to 120 and roughly 90% went up to 120 and around 90% kept on the third session for 120 but the FDA itself chose the design that we used but to our disappointment the people that we negotiated with at the FDA left the agency this was in 19 is 200 2017. And so by the time we get around to uh 2024, the people that were running the division of psychiatry were more conservative than the the previous people that we'd negotiated with. And we were already filing formal disputes with lawyer scientists against this division for arguments that we thought that were not um were not being based on science, their their responses. And we've won two formal disputes with this division of psychiatry. So even still, it's amazing when you look at actually the results from the blinding is that there is still some blinding even when you give inactive placebo because people are now in an 8-hour session. They're supported to do really difficult work. They've had a lot of preparation. Everybody gets the same preparation. And so some of them did deep work and there was sometimes confusion between whether they actually got the placebo or the MDMA. So you can see from this that the people that had therapy with placebo um 4.5% were positive they had MDMA but 15.9% thought it might have been MDMA. So you got roughly 20% of these people that think that the inactive placebo was actually or could have been MDMA. And then when you look at it the other way around though, the people that got MDMA, you know, this was uh 78% were sure they had MDMA, 15% thought they had. So roughly 90% thought, but there's still some small percentages of people that were convinced that it was um um they were positive it was placebo, one person. So any case, the idea is there's still a bit of confusion. So we negotiated with functional unblinding. We knew it was a factor and so we felt it was completely unfair for FDA to say, "You told us to do this and now you're telling us that's a big problem." Um now the therapeutic method critiques the therapeutic method was something that we developed. We call it interdirected therapy and it based on a lot of the work that was done as I said with LSD. And some of the critiques were um in JAMA psychiatry. This was March 29, 2023. These factors include overly flexible therapy protocols, use of unevaluated and controversial practices. That means occasional touch, increased suggestability, vulnerability to abuse, failures and oversight and regulatory mechanisms. So again, we need to welcome the critics. The critics are important, but this was one of the early examples of where LICOS, the pharmaceutical company, decided not to respond. And not only did they decide not to respond, but they blocked MAPS and me from responding. So when you get criticism in a scientific journal and you don't respond the assumption is that the critics have there is no response. So by not responding again they created this vacuum and it was filled by negativity and there are responses to all of this. Um there was another critique in JAMA psychiatry uh October. This is after the FDA rejection. Uh theoretical background of the treatment relies on the concept of inner healing intelligence to help put the participant in touch with their innate ability to heal and grow. These concerns lack empirical evidence are not even operationalized to allow measuring. They're not derived from any tested or testable theory and not recommended by clinical practice guidelines. Now we have responded to this. We meaning myself, Michael Midhover, our therapists, not Lyos. They didn't even respond to this. And so the concept of inner healing intelligence is basically just trust what's emerging. We know that the unconscious mind that that it's it's somehow deeper and more connected. We don't always know consciously what people need to do that a lot of times they don't even share their deeper traumas and so you don't always know. So we did um have some really good responses. The concept of inner healing intelligence trans theoretical concept that asserts the innate capacity of each person to engage in self-directed healing and growth. There's going to be a new paper on it. So it's the same as a neuroscience explanation. The FDA to approve a drug, you approve safety and efficacy, but you don't have to have a mechanism of action. You don't have to explain what's going on with all the neurons. They're just looking is it safe? Is it helpful? So this idea of this inner healing intelligence is like a theory about how um how we trust the process. So to critique it as not being scientific is really off the mark. Um this was another one by Michael Mito and myself. In fact what eight clinical trials over 20 years has demonstrated is when MDMAS therapy is administered using the self-directed model imaginal exposure that means you're recapitulating your trauma does occur without the direction of therapists. robust results can be obtained with less repetition than in prolonged exposure without restriction to a few trauma associated situations. So we feel that the critique of the therapy was not really um valid either. The therapeutic approach was highly standardized. We have um adherence ratings. We we have um a enough to demonstrate. The the other part of it is that if you look at the results in our control group, they were incredible. The people that got therapy without MDMA in the second phase three study, 47.6% no longer had PTSD, without any MDMA at all, and these are people with moderate to severe PTSD. Threearters were severe PTSD. They'd been through a lot of therapy and drugs before, most of them, and they still got better. So, if there was any evidence of bias in therapists, it would be, oh, we're going to do great with the people that got MDMA, but the people that got the placebo were going to not do so great. But we've got tremendous results, better than any other therapy that's ever been studied for PTSD and with a lower dropout rate. All right. Then FDA doesn't regulate therapy. So that's true. Um what this is talking about is off label prescription. FDA doesn't regulate the practice of medicine. And we heard earlier today about 30% of prescriptions are off label in psychiatry or psychotherapy. But they don't regulate therapy either. And so that's why we don't need the FDA to regulate therapy. We need the FDA to say, "Look, you have been able to get these results. You're going to train people. That's we don't need to watch afterwards to make sure that people do exactly that therapy." Um, and so Javier Munz was um at the division of psychiatry. He retired in December. He did an interview with psychedelic alpha, which is a newsletter for investors in psyched psychedelics. and he said there's a common misconception that the psychotherapy framing was all was the reason it wasn't approved but I don't believe that's the case the challenges were far more nuanced I don't believe functional unblinding was a deal breakaker in this case and he also said from my perspective the main issue wasn't efficacy but a lack of critical safety data for instance there was a lack of data on positive adverse events related to abuse liability so what he means by that and this was a mistake that the company made was that when you think adverse events somebody is um frightened or somebody's suicidal ideation increases or something like that but what the FDA said they wanted is when somebody says oh I feel great I feel like you know I've never felt so relaxed I can deal with my fears that they said is a positive adverse event and that should have been tracked because that leads to the thought okay are you creating a whole bunch of addicts to MDMA because they really like the experience these positive adverse events or potentially dangerous and that's what they wanted to be tracked. So that is a valid criticism of the company. They did not do this but there will be a way to gather this through um review of all these uh videotapes which is and review of the study data which is going to be happening. So this is just a main say it doesn't really uh I think the field is getting the wrong message as I said that you got to minimize the therapy. Um then adverse events under reportported. They're like this ice here. We heard concerns that therapists encourage favorable reports by patients, discouraged negative reports by patients, including discouraging reports of substantial harms. Um if there are any subjects that were in our study that have not reported any um adverse events, please do so now. Um and the company should be receiving that. And that's what we've been wanting to send as a message for quite a long time. Um, but I don't believe this is the case. I don't believe that the therapists actually were saying to people, we're going to change the world with psychedelics, so we don't want to hear about your adverse events because no drug works for everybody. All drugs have side effects. And you just balance them with the benefits. So when you have a sense that there's a lot of benefits, you're not like, "Oh, we don't want to hear about the harms." So these were accusations again that I don't think were were accurate. Um but again what the ice here this is the institute for clinical effectiveness research. This is a group funded by the insurance companies to try to figure out what is an appropriate price for a drug post approval. And they said to date has received relatively little input from LICOS therapeutics the sponsor of the trials. After publication of the draft report, LICO submitted public comments on these concerns. What was their public comment? We'll refrain from discussing details of the application in public comments on the IC report. So this is about this defensive reactive not proactive and positive approach to critics and part of this quiet period. All right. Then participant safety from therapist misconduct. So there is um a sad truth that happened which is that one of the uh patients that was involved in phase two not phase three was working with a therapist who began after the MDMA was over an unethical sexual boundary violation with this patient. And as soon as we found out about it we um let the therapist go. We fired the therapist. We reported to all of our therapists, don't do this. We made it public. And so that was eight years ago. As far as we know, nothing like that happened in the first 16 years and nothing has happened in the eight years since then. But there was this situation that should never have happened. But when you look at what happens in psychiatry and therapy and other kind of close situations, it's not an unknown situation like this. One of the things that was really frustrating to me is that early on a group of researchers had said in early 20 um 22 actually um that they wanted to study the role of touch in uh MDMA assisted therapy and the licos management at the time said no we don't want this study done we don't want to know about touch again that's not moving from a position of the first principle should be what is best for patients And when you move from that principle, you're in danger areas. When you stick to that principle, things will go well, I believe. And so what's best for patients is for us to understand the role of touch and MDMA assisted therapy. But this study was basically blocked from taking place from reviewing the videotapes again from this kind of reactive defensive part. Um lack of diversity in participants. So this was something that um in the first study this was true. I had this assumption that that I was wrong about that um because we work with therapists uh with patients from the military, the military has 40% of color. I thought we would have a lot of therapists uh patients of color, but we had none. I didn't really realize the extent to which there was distrust by people of color in the medical establishment. And that led us to realize that what we need to do is train therapists of color. And so we did that uh aggressively moved forward to try to change therapists of color. We've given about a million dollars in scholarships for u bipok therapists. And in the second study we had uh more than half the people were um not identifying as white. So we did have good diversity in in that. And then the participants bias from prior MDMA experience. So this was something that I thought was again a very um it tells a different two different kinds of stories. So 40% of the people in our study had prior experience with MDMA or ecstasy outside of therapy and 60% had never had any experience with MDMA. And so what the criticism was is these 40% of people like MDMA and so they're going to have fewer side effects because they like MDMA and they're going to have a better response. Well, as it turns out, that's a valid question to raise. Again, you need these critics. But the response was, "Let's look at the data." And when you look at the data, the 60% of the people that had done uh no MDMA ever before were very were not statistically different from those that had done MDMA before either on safety or efficacy. Um so this was the hypothesis that it was going to be a problem, but it wasn't actually a problem. But the important thing to say that's often missed is that 40% of the people had done MDMA before and they still had PTSD. It's not the drug that is what is really effective. It's the therapy. It's the context. Now, this is not to say that people can't heal themselves from PTSD doing it on their own or with friends in a safe way. They can. But in this particular group of people, 40% had done MDMMA, some of them multiple times, and they still had PTSD. So this bias um really was a valid question to ask, but it didn't really um happen in this case. There was no real practical implications of that. And there's just been a recent article in the New York Times talking about bias about how the group that was um trying to raise all these issues at the advisory committee, how they were themselves biased in incredible ways. So this is so now what there are is ongoing negotiations between uh FDA and LICOS and that um they look to an independent third-party review of prior phase three clinical data. So what's going to be happening now is there's two opport two possible scenarios. So the videotapes are going to be reviewed, the study data is going to be reviewed by FDA and that's going to take uh five or six months or something like that. So the possibility is that after these data have all been reviewed and the videotapes have been reviewed to see if there's any more incidents of abuse or therapist saying don't report your adverse events or exaggerate your benefits. Um which I don't think is going to happen. I think this review will be positive. Then there's the possibility with the new people that are coming in to the administration that are in some cases pro- psychedelic that there may be potentially approval for MDMA assisted therapy for PTSD in six or seven months, something like that. That is one possibility. The other possibility is that the FDA will say, well, whatever we saw from this review, somehow we still want another phase three study. And if that's the case, then we're delayed three years or more to plan and conduct the next three studies. So that's really what to be watching out for is what does this independent review demonstrate and how does that influence the FDA? Now, we do have uh Robert RFK Jr. and um this is what he says. FDA's war on public health is about to end. This includes its aggressive suppression of psychedelics. And he goes on to all these other things. Notice he put psychedelics first. Now, this is um Michael Pollen, and this is a really important point, criticizing RFK for his approach to vaccines and other things. And he's saying psychedelics should be approved because the science is good, not because they have a fan in the White House. And I and I I completely agree with that. So how do we deal with the fact that we have a massive amount of distrust to anything that is said by the US government? Um tragically so the solution in my mind is transparency. What LICOS needs to do, which is what other pharma companies don't do, is to make all of our communications with FDA public and to make our data public so that people can see for themselves. This is the data on which any future decision may be made. So whether that will happen or not, I'm not sure, but this is my suggestion for transparency. Now, there's been some really good things that have deepened our connection with uh the administration, and this is uh Erin Wolf Gang. Been working with him for five years or so. And it's really important to try to treat people closer to the trauma. That applies both to the veterans. we we need to move from the veterans into the department of defense and also move eventually from treating adults as well but also to treating adolescence and younger who are traumatized and I think that's going to be the future direction and so but also from a social acceptance point of view when you work in active duty soldiers we get finally over the idea oh it was all these hippies in the 60s who were against the Vietnam war and took psychedelics and that was how psychedelics got identified with the counterculture and Now we have $10 million that has been allocated from the Department of Defense for MDMA work. This will be done at Walter Reed with Aaron and then another is going to Barbara Rothbomb to compare combine MDMA with prolonged exposure at Emory and Strongstar. So this is I think a tremendous thing that I've been working on for about 20 years to try to get this work into the Department of Defense. We have uh lots of work at the Bronx VA and Rachel Yehuda is sort of the champion of MDMMA research and she's now doing a study that's going to look for customizing the therapy one to five sessions. Some people need one session, some people need more and this is going to be to try to customize the treatment. But from a point of view of how do we make this affordable? How do we make this accessible? we've got a a you got a tremendous situation here in Iceland and much of Europe where you have national health insurance but in the US we have around a third of the people don't have insurance or underinsured and the Republicans are trying to do their best to uh make that number larger. Um the the solution is going to be I think or one of the solutions is going to be group therapy. How do and Pam talked a lot about group therapy and how do we do that? So there's now the FDA and regulatory agencies want the original research, the phase three research to be in individuals. Once you've do done that, then you can expand into group therapy. And so we do have a project at the Portland, Oregon VA that is um groups of six people with four therapists and they get an individual session first and then they get um a group session and they've done a couple cohorts already and what they've learned is that the people want a third session in a group. So now this is individual and two group therapy sessions. Um in Israel um they had this meeting on January 29th. This is about a study that's going to we'll hear finally from the Israeli Ministry of Health in the next week or two, but this is about direct comparison of individual versus group. So people will be randomized either to three MDMA sessions and 12 prep and integration sessions or three group sessions and 12 uh uh prep and integration sessions. So in this particular project, they don't have an individual session first in the group therapy model, but this was now for a certain kind of soldiers that were undercover combat veterans. This is also in Israel. Also four therapists for six participants, two facilitators, new helpers. But this is where it's three sessions again, but the first two are individual and the third is in a group. Now, in um Jill Norton at King's College, she's going to be doing group therapy, but it's going to be just three veterans with two therapists. And um they're not quite sure yet, but I think it's going to be individual and then um two groups. And then in Australia, this is the first project now for PTSD from climate related trauma from people that had floods. And the government of Australia has put in 3.3 million, two and a half million US dollars to fund this project. And it will be again six therapists and four people. So group therapy is really going to be um the sort of leading edge of the research going forward. Also I mentioned um pediatric studies. It turns out that in the military a lot of the people in the military have had prior traumas before they enter the military. And so we also believe that again this idea of um treating people who are younger. The FDA has said that they will refuse to pro to permit us to study people under the age of 18. But if they approve for adults, then we must study adolescence. And there's some projects with 16 and 17 year olds. It could go down much younger. And I think here's one that's uh for some of our political leaders that's coming up. This is an approved study, psychoanalytically informed MDMMA assisted therapy for pathological narcissism. I I don't know quite how we'll get people to volunteer for this study. Um but uh this is actually an approved study underway right now. Um and then these are the psychotherapy um clinics of the future. And what what I'm trying to communicate by this is that we're studying MDMA for PTSD. Other people are studying ketamine. Other people are studying psilocybin, ibeine. These drugs all have similar activities. They're they're subtly different. It's like think about them as colors of a rainbow, you know? It's they all have different aspects to them, but they're all fundamentally bringing things to the surface. And the therapists of the future should be cross-trained in ketamine, MDMAs, psilocybin, ibane, 5, DMT, iawasa, other things. And then you go to a clinic and they will customize the treatment just for each individual patient. Now, that's going to be uh years ahead, but I think this is the direction of the field. So right now we have loads of ketamine clinics that only do ketamine but they're sort of building the ground for future adding other substances as they come together. So this is now I believe that we are moving forward in the best possible way to get FDA approval whether it's six months whether it's three years it's going to happen. So what I am focusing my attention now and maps is sort of this globalization toward a world of net zero trauma by 2070. What that means is that net zero trauma doesn't mean no trauma. There's two kinds of traumas. There's one that happens to you and then there's epigenetic multi-generational trauma of set points for anxiety and depression. So we want to reach a world where we're not adding to the burden of trauma on humanity as a whole. And I think things are going to get worse before they get better. There's uh estimates of billion plus climate refugees by 2050. So the stresses on countries I think is going to get worse. Now Bhutan has done a gross national happiness measure and they use it for different countries. So what we need to do is develop a gross national trauma measure. It'll take a couple million dollars to do that. Um this is uh the potential domains of the kind of gross national trauma. Um, and I think that this could be a way to track progress over the next several generations. People have said, and I believe this is true, if you're um, if your goals are something that you can accomplish in your own lifetime, they're too small. So that we need to be thinking multi multigenerational. And I think this idea of a target of 2070 of really hitting this point of net zero trauma then you go to net negative trauma sort of an idealistic vision as I said there's 122 million people forcibly displaced right now 1.2 two billion potentially by 2050. And so what we want to do is do group therapy with refugees, migrants, and others. I think because families are traumatized together, we could do um treat families together, parents and children. I think they'll do support in a community setting. That's I think the future. Um and um so um you know one of the trainings that we actually did in Iceland had people from Denmark from Oasis uh treatment center and they do work with refugees. So now they're talking about a project with Syrian refugees in Denmark. Um in Somali land we've got a project where we've actually um shipped 2 grams of MDMA from Canada um from Syen which I like to call out Syen um and this was for the training of therapists. So that I think is as I said this you get this six-day training then ideally you get this opportunity to see what MDMA actually does. What we learned in Somali land was really interesting is that those people tend not to go by diagnosis so much. A lot of it is somaticized. They have physical problems. They're not used to saying this is depression, anxiety, PTSD. And even the therapist has got MDMA, a lot of them had the resolution of physical symptoms went away. So it was really important to do this training of the therapists, get them in their home country to receive MDMA and then say, one of them said, "I wish my mother would do this. I want my sister to do this. They really understand through their own direct experience. Uh in Rwanda, we've been approached multiple times to bring MDMMA um to Rwanda and Rwanda is a a terrible situation and that they have hardly any psychiatrists and therapists and they have massive trauma. So this is again about trying to do um training in Africa and then try to raise money for these pilot studies but finding who are local healers. How do we deliver this in in other ways in Bosnia and Herzuggavina? This is going to be survivors of the Shrebna massacre 10,000 uh well loads of um Muslim men around 10,400 Muslim men and boys were killed. The women were survived raped and but weren't killed. And so these are people that are traumatized from that. Um and then I said we've got an opportunity in the Palestinian West Bank to try to um finally do work with Palestinians and in Ukraine. And we've got a training um April 27th to May 4th in the western part of Ukraine that um will be training Ukrainian therapists. There has to be a changing of the law right now in Ukraine. You can't do research with schedule one substances, but that's going to change. And we think the training will help contribute to that. And so basically where we're at now from the MAPS and LICOS, LICOS is going to forward do whatever they can with FDA will eventually succeed. And MAPS is going to prioritize global communities with the largest burden of trauma and the fewest resources for treatment in a nonprofit humanitarian context. Yeah. Um and so um and so I would just like to uh remind you all about the conference in Denver. You're all welcome to come to that. And um I like to be the last to leave a party. So I will be at the party tonight and look forward to talking to you all. and just saying that it's been so inspiring for me to see this conference and to be here in Iceland and to see the diversity of the speakers from drug policy to indigenous to science to mechanisms of action to clinical therapy. I think this has just been a tremendous success. Um it's a pleasure to be here and I hope that one day Iceland can become a model for the world in net zero trauma. THANK YOU. THANK YOU VERY MUCH. NOW, thank you. Um um so I I um I I I would just like to um add one thing that all the benefits that I've gotten personally from psychedelics, I haven't even come close to paying them back. So thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 6eCx5wILDks (https://youtu.be/6eCx5wILDks) ===

Was there a time in psychology where psychedelics were used more frequently? >> Only when it started to be 1943 is when Albert Hofmann had contaminated himself as he was re-synthesizing LSD. And then the first study in the US was 1949. But in the 50s and 60s there was an enormous amount of work on psychedelics for a whole range of conditions, including alcohol use disorder. Probably one of the more famous incidents is Bill W who started Alcoholics Anonymous actually in the 30s he took um belladonna which is a disorienting psychedelic, but that helped him get over his alcoholism. And then it was in the 50s when he heard about LSD that after he was already sober and had started AA then he took LSD and he thought that this has to play a major role in AA because what he said was is that this whole concept of people hitting bottom. You know, but once you've hit bottom that's when you're ready to to look at things, but you've destroyed your family, you've destroyed your work situation, you've destroyed your health a lot. And he thought with LSD you can precipitate the emotions of hitting bottom when you still have a little bit of an intact family system and job. >> [music] >> Rick, thank you so much for doing this with me. Yeah, no, I'm so glad because you know, one of the sayings that I've learned a lot from recently is that >> [music] >> politics is downstream from culture. But so is science. >> [music] >> And so I think trying to educate the culture, educate people is really critical particularly for controversial research like psychedelics have been. Right. And it's it's so incredible the work you've been doing for so many years in this field that I just you know, I met you in Dubai. I don't know if you remember but I immediately ran up to you after I said please come on my podcast because it's such an important topic. And you know, for years we I went to medical school 30 years ago and in medical school and even after medical school I was told that psychedelics no go. You know, this is not something that we should consider. Closest you're going to get to it is ketamine for anesthesia and that otherwise they're just drugs. You know, they got thrown into the bucket of the war on drugs for many years. >> Well, and the word hallucinogen is a pejorative negative term. Because it's unreal. It's fake. It's hallucination. It's distortion. It's intoxication. Yeah, but it was really political. The suppression was not based on the science. It was based on the politics. What do you mean by that? I would love to dive into kind of the history of psychedelics and specifically psychedelics in medicine, but let's talk about that. >> Okay. Well, well, from the more recent history with the psychedelics really flowering the during the 1960s in the United States there's a fellow named John Haldeman who was Nixon's domestic policy advisor. He's got this famous quote from I think it was 1979 to Dan Rather a reporter and he said that the two main enemies of the Nixon White House were the hippies and the civil rights movement. He said since he couldn't stop them from protesting he could criminalize the drugs that they were using and then use that to arrest the leaders, bust up the meetings, demonize them. And then John Ehrlichman says did we know we are exaggerating the risks of these drugs? Of course we did. So it was psychedelics connected to the anti-war, anti-Vietnam war protests, to the counterculture that caused the backlash. It wasn't because the science was showing that these were so dangerous or that they couldn't and then there was all these myths about how psychedelics will hurt your chromosomes. It's an incredible how powerful these myths are. So I went to the my my wife, we've been married now since um 1993, but our first date sort of was in 1989 and she wanted to talk to me about a mushroom trip she had in college. And so we went out to lunch and we had I helped her she says I helped her think about this mushroom trip, but then she said I just want to let you know that I'd never want to have a real relationship with anybody like you. I'm like yeah, what's wrong with me? She said well, your chromosomes must be so screwed up from all the LSD you took. And like this was a smart woman at the Kennedy School of Government. And I'm like you believe this? But it's just incredible the myths. And then I was raised in the 60s and told that if you take LSD five or six times that's enough to be certifiably insane. You could commit any crime you wanted because you're certifiably insane from doing five or six times of LSD. So these were the kind of propaganda. So it was really politics not based on the science. >> Yeah, I was going to say these are myths, but these sounds like more like propaganda to achieve the political goal of the Nixon era of the Nixon presidency really. That's that's when everything kind of unraveled. >> Yeah, but if we go back in history so the Western culture that we think of as Western civilization really goes back to the Greeks. And that's where democracy and philosophy and all these things were created. And one of the things that the Greeks had the longest running mystery ceremony that we know of in the history of the world was the Eleusinian Mysteries for roughly 2000 years. From 1600 BC to 396 AD. And everybody that we know of in terms of the Greek culture Socrates, Plato, Pythagoras, Aristotle, all these people participated in the Eleusinian Mysteries that had a psychedelic component. They drank a potion called kykeon. And then they would walk a certain distance to Eleusis and then they would have this ceremony that they could not talk about under pain of death. You couldn't say what it was in it. And they were so in their minds enlightened that they permitted women and slaves to participate in this, not just the men in these ceremonies. And they were this core of their culture in a way. It's like the secret of life and death sort of the death rebirth story that we're both our individual lives from birth to death, but we're part of something much larger and something is continuing in some ways. And so for the first couple of a hundred years of Christianity the sort of pagan ceremonies with psychedelics at Eleusis coexisted with the development of the Christian Church. But eventually the Christian Church was like we don't want you to have these direct experiences. We are the intermediary between [snorts] you and spirit and God. The priests are the intermediaries and therefore they crushed the Eleusinian Mysteries in 396 is when they destroyed Eleusis. So that's really the first prohibition against psychedelics. Psychedelics have been used for thousands of years. >> Once again it sounds political. Completely political. >> [laughter] >> And then what happened was over the Middle Ages over time we know about the burning of the witches. These were also people that were very much connected to plant medicines and psychedelics. And then the conquistadors when they started coming into the New World the first people that they wanted to kill were the shamans because they were the core of the kings or the shamans. And so they said oh, if you're under the influence of peyote that's like the devil. And the mushrooms. So the sort of peyote and mushrooms went underground. So it's just this continual pattern where psychedelics can help you have a direct experience and different authoritarian kind of religious groups and others want to be the intermediary. And so it's been continuing and then we have this re-emergence in the 1960s in a big way in America and again the politics. It's crazy how history just keeps repeating itself over and over again. It does. Well, and one of the things that was you know, we're here right in Cambridge where Timothy Leary was, but one of the main things that Timothy Timothy Leary said was think for yourself and question authority. Right. And that was the motto in a way of the counterculture. And that's not good from the power systems. They don't want you. So there was this whole kind of conflict. And so the challenge now here we are in 2026. How do we bring forth psychedelics in a way that doesn't sort of trigger an immune response from the culture? Yes. And so that's been a lot of the work that I've been trying to do. And that's where I went from deciding in 1972 when I was 18 that I would focus my life in psychedelics and then deciding in 1988 that when I was unable to get into a clinical psych PhD program because I wanted to study psychotherapy outcome research. And demonstrate that psychedelics would have potential there, but MDMA had been criminalized in 1985 so nobody would let me in to get a clinical psych PhD on psychedelic psychotherapy outcome research. And that's where I realized I should add under the influence of marijuana. When I'm stuck marijuana's really good for thinking out of the box. You know, for being creative. So I had this moment where I'm sitting I remember exactly where I was. I had just gotten these rejections from all the clinical psych PhD programs and I'm sitting in Florida in my house and I'm smoking marijuana. I'm thinking I'm going to figure out what what can I do? And I realized that the pattern I had was I want too much too soon. And in this case I want to do the science, but the politics is blocking the science. So therefore I have to switch to study the politics. And that's what led me to the Kennedy School to get my masters and PhD from there. So what I felt that I've been doing is moving from individual therapy to cultural therapy. Right. Absolutely. And that's why talking to you on the podcast that's so important. It's so important, right. Because we are at a good moment now, I think again. Hopefully it should doesn't repeat itself again. But, you know, you've been a huge proponent about pushing the science and then bringing [snorts] this to clinical psychology as well. And I think once we cross that bridge where these are actually looked at as therapeutic interventions and you know, they'll start off as prescriptions as well for those interventions. I think at that point hopefully it's a train that can't be stopped in the right direction. I think so. I think that. But but I would add that my work has been a little bit more controversial because I've had two parallel paths. And I'll say what that what is the real goal? The real goal for me is a more spiritualized humanity, a more mentally healthy humanity, a way where we celebrate differences rather than use them to persecute people or to go after immigrants or anything like that. It's so it's it requires a shift in consciousness on a large level. And so what that means is we both have to do the science and medicalize, but we also have to work on drug policy reform. And it shouldn't be just for treating illness. It should also be preventative medicine. It should also be for wellness. So, one of the really exciting things that MAPS is going to be doing and it's basically I started MAPS in '86. So, now we're 40 years 40 years into it. It's it's taken 40 years to reach this point where we're starting to do final design and fundraising for study of MDMA for couples therapy. Right. That's going to be huge. It's one of the best uses of it, but it's not a disorder. Right. And so it's about wellness. It's about flourishing. It's about looking at the positive side of things. And so the FDA has never approved a drug in psychiatry for something that wasn't a DSM diagnosis. Sure. But there's nothing in the law that blocks them from doing that. So, not only are we going to do So, the sweet spot of MAPS is where the science politics connection. That's such a that's great to realize that because you are kind of playing both I guess one's more like a means to an end as well. Once you get it into psychiatric intervention, then you can then take a step towards more global usage of it for other you know, things like marriage therapy or just even just you know, expanding your mindset, becoming more creative, all those other uses of it that we all know could be extremely beneficial for humans. Yeah, I mean the medicine route, it has to make sense in its own right. We have to demonstrate safety and efficacy, but that's not the end goal. Right. Right. >> and I'll say one of the things that's been really surprising is the rise of the psychedelic churches. Yeah, let's talk about that a little bit. Yeah, because um what we've have this is sort of the the um other side of the rise of the religious right. So, now um in America you can discriminate against people based on your religion. So, if you're a the classic case was a baker who didn't want to bake a cake for a gay wedding. Right. Right. All right. So, now you don't have to do that. The law says you can discriminate against people based on your religion. Right. So, you can do all sorts of things now in the name of religion. You don't have to go to public schools. You can even get public money now in some places for religious schools. So, the concern now has been that the the support for religious freedom has grown in such a way that now people can say, I have a new religion with psychedelics as the part center of it. Yeah. And so there's hundreds of psychedelic churches throughout the United States. And there's no real persecution of it. Okay. Because of the fear that in courts because of this rise of protection of your religious freedom that it would be demonstrated that you do have the right to do it. So, the Native American Church use of peyote has gone to the US Supreme Court. This was quite a while ago and they won the use of peyote, but it was limited to this one religion. Then a little bit more of about 12 years ago the ayahuasca, the União do Vegetal went also to the US Supreme Court and they won again that they could practice their religion. And then Santo Daime, which is another ayahuasca church, went up to the ninth circuit and then the government didn't appeal. And then there's a new psychedelic church, the Eagle and the Condor, Okay. that just was newly created, but my favorite and again, favorite because of access, it's called the Church of Ambrosia. Oh, okay. It's a mushroom church. But it has other sacraments, too. It has 130,000 members. It's in Oakland, California. They sell 90 lb of mushrooms per month, which is a very lot, and they don't have services. You go to the church, which is a storefront, to buy the mushrooms and then they give you a little booklet about how to have a spiritual experience and then you take it home and you do it at home. So, there's kind of both the medical route, the psychedelic churches route, and then there's the state level reforms. So, Oregon has passed the Oregon psilocybin initiative and 18,000 people have now received MDM I mean psilocybin in Oregon in the last three or four years and it's more than all of the people that have received psilocybin in clinical research in the last 25 years. Colorado has just approved natural plant medicines. We've got other states that are starting to do it. New Jersey's putting $5 into psilocybin research. New Mexico is approving psilocybin research. So, there's state level reforms and then there's drug decriminalization in different ways. So, there's a lot of ways to provide access, but what I think is really important for people to know is that it's the context that matters more than the substance. So, we're not saying that psychedelics are automatically healing. Psychedelics can be disorienting. They can take you and make you worse off. Or they can make you better off, but it's the safe and supportive context that really matters. So, really when we're trying to bring this forward, we're saying it's the psychotherapy as a medicine that makes the major difference. Now, there's also interesting work trying to develop non-psychedelic psychedelics. And so what I mean by that is that psychedelics promote a neuroplasticity. One of the ways that they work is they Well, there's Gül Dölen, a researcher at She was at Hopkins, now she's at UC Berkeley. And she's done work with octopuses, giving octopuses MDMA and then they're more prosocial. She's done work with mice and you give MDMA to a mouse and it releases oxytocin and that promotes new neural connections in prosocial areas of the brain. So, there's this whole um neuroplasticity and people are thinking maybe if you've got a stroke or if you've had some kind of brain cancer or something like that, maybe you can have a pill that helps you route around the damaged parts of your brain without you getting psychedelic. Which I think is perfectly legitimate to try to Yeah, I mean I think what we need is clinicians need to have all the tools to to help people in all different ways. And some people will want the subjective experience and some people won't. I'll say how my first understanding of non-psychedelic psychedelics happened, which was there's a disorder called cluster headaches. I guess I know cluster headaches. Yeah. Okay. And it's ter it's worse than migraines sometimes. They call it suicide headaches. So, this was in 2003 and there's a group called Clusterbusters that is of cluster headache sufferers and they had discovered inadvertently that if you take psilocybin or LSD, it can get you out of a cycle of cluster headaches and delay the return of the the next cycle. And so they contacted me and said, "We don't want to be criminals anymore. Can you do research?" And I was doing a lot of work at McLean Hospital with looking at the risks of MDMA and other things and they were interested in doing this work with cluster headaches. So, the first thing that they did was get a bunch of people with their medical records and verified they had cluster headaches and then where did they take LSD or psilocybin? Usually it was going to a party or something. And then how did that impact their um their cluster headaches. So, the next step was going to be to do an actual study with LSD or psilocybin. And the people at McLean were like, "Oh, no. Timothy Leary's been here. It's too controversial. We'll only do the research with LSD or psilocybin if it's the last resort. Okay. Only if nothing else works." So, the two researchers, John Halpern here and Torsten Passie at the University of Hanover, were working together on this. And they said there's bromo LSD, which is a non-psychedelic version of LSD. Really? >> this bromo molecule to LSD and it knocks out the psychedelic component. Oh, interesting. Okay. And so they said, "Here's what our plan is. We're going to do a study of bromo LSD for cluster headaches. Yeah. And then it won't work and because we have no idea why it works, but why should LSD or psilocybin work? It must have something to do with the part that gives you the psychedelic experience. I said, we'll do this project with bromo LSD. It won't work, and then we'll come back and we'll do LSD or psilocybin. I said, great idea. So, they did this project, and I kept waiting. What's the results? What's the results? They weren't telling me. I'm like, what's going on? Finally, they said they didn't want to tell me because they thought I would be terribly disappointed because it worked. Not only did it work, it works better than LSD or psilocybin. >> Really? Yeah, because you can give it in grams. >> Yeah. Whereas LSD is micrograms. >> of the of the effects, right? You can't overdrive in his milligrams. So, whatever it does, it floods the brain and Yeah. And it works. So, that was the first example I'd ever seen of a non-psychedelic psychedelic being helpful. So, I [snorts] mean, it just reinforces the point that these are molecules that have an effect on the brain way beyond the psychedelic experience. So, maybe the psychedelic experience is a side effect of if you're using it for a treatment like this. Well, in certain cases, I think that's right. On the other hand, I would say, and this is the this is also why it's so good that we're talking and and doing this um public education part is what we like to say is that the regulators need data, but people need stories. >> Yes, for sure. And so, this idea that um when you have a psychedelic experience, you're sort of telling yourself a new version of the story of your life. You're seeing different parts of it. You're seeing different kinds of emotions. You're able to feel deeply. You're often able to see yourself through the eyes of other people even if it perpetrators or things like that. So, that there is this um storytelling aspect to it that I think is what really matters to us. Where where is our place in the universe? People have all sorts of incredible imagery and metaphors that that help in their healing process. So, I think there will be a role for non-psychedelic psychedelics. >> Yeah. But, I do think that this the psychedelic component of it is going to continue for you know, it's been thousands of years. It will continue because it helps us to reframe what is the story of our life. >> Right. Right. It's it's a very important component of it, but it just to me this aspect of the non-psychedelic psychedelics being used for something like treatment headache for cluster headaches treatment. Maybe there's a role for non-psychedelic versions of like, for example, uh you know, ketamine or psilocybin for depression. Or it's not I think I think that's another way to look at these molecules a little bit differently and apply more science to to it rather than just discounting them as a weird experience, you know. >> Yeah, and I think why they have such long-term effect is because of this neuroplasticity. Absolutely. >> I mean, cuz we can go to a movie and see a story or have a dream sometimes and see a story, but it's this neuroplasticity combined with the story that makes it have long-term impact. >> So, let's talk about that a little bit more. I'd like to dive a little bit deeper because when my patients ask me about recreational use of psychedelics, right? And I say, you really want to be careful because of what you were mentioning earlier, the context. If you do it in a situation where you don't feel safe, where you're stressed, where there's something else going on that could be negative, the neuroplasticity, it doesn't discriminate between good and bad connections. Just forms more connections between neurons, right? And so, um a bad trip can be something that follows you for many years. Decades and decades. I mean, we we In fact, there's a fair number of people that say that they don't like smoking marijuana because it brings them back to difficult trips that they had before. >> Sure. So, it doesn't just go away. >> Yeah. Um and so, I think that this um the long-term impact of it is really important. One of the the first ever research that I did was um when I was a college student at New College in Sarasota, Florida, and you had to do a senior thesis, and I did a 25-year follow-up to the Good Friday experiment. And that took place here in Boston in 1962. >> Yeah. And that was the first study ever to see if psychedelics could produce a religious experience in religiously inclined people in a religious setting. So, it was in um Marsh Chapel at Boston University. Um interestingly enough, um Howard Thurman was the minister. He was a African-American minister, and he had studied with Gandhi. Right. >> And he learned about non-violent resistance. And then Martin Luther King got his PhD at Boston University, and Howard Thurman was his mentor. And so, Howard Thurman understood the political implications of this mystical sense of connection. And so, he was open to do this um Good Friday experiment in his church on Good Good Friday when he was leading the ceremony. But, I did a 25-year follow-up. And I would say that the most important finding in a way was the strength of the memories that people had for this experience that had happened 25 years before. Which one did they use? They used psilocybin. Yeah, the the placebo people mostly remembered it as this was an unusual experiment, and I saw things I uh some of them said, I saw what was happening to others, and it so scared me I never wanted to do psychedelics again. Others said, I wanted to do psychedelics as quickly as I could afterwards. These are all the placebo people. But, they didn't remember that much. But, something about the psychedelics imprints in your memory in a really profound way. Got it. So, that's the cautionary tale there is make sure you're doing it in a in an environment in a context where whatever you're trying to lock in, you want to make sure it's you understand that you're locking in whatever experience you're having. >> Yeah, exactly. Yeah, and and and and it's too simple to think, oh, just take this pill. Yeah. It's not about the pill, it's about the context. And so, to to highlight this even more, this is now about 20 years ago, and um within um 1 week, we got two reports, two women with a very similar report. Both of them had taken MDMA at a rave at a party, and had remembered sexual assault in the past. One of them was with a bunch of friends who were just out to have a party, and she felt that they didn't want to hear about something that would be that quote serious. And so, she stuffed her feelings down, and then months later, she's still feeling worse. So, she contacted us to say, yeah, I had MDMA in the wrong context, and now months later, I'm still feeling worse. Right. The other woman said, I similar story, but I was with a girlfriend. I started remembering the sexual abuse. We went off into the corner. I talked about it with her for a for an hour or so, worked through a lot of it, and felt better, and then went back to the party. And then I realized that MDMA could be great for PTSD, and I thought I figured it out cuz everybody thinks it's just a party drug. >> Yeah. People don't know it was a therapy drug before it became ecstasy as a party drug. So, she did a Google search on MDMA for PTSD, and discovered we were studying it. >> Yeah. And then so, I I think it just really highlights the fact that the context is important. >> Yeah. And more important than the drug. And so, I think it is wise to um advise people to be very careful about the context. And usually, that means like the designated driver to have somebody that's not high Yeah. that can kind of watch over. Watch what's happening, and yeah. >> Just in case. I mean, not always, but that that is a good cautionary tale. But, but I also um tend not to use the word recreational the way I use it because that's also a little bit pejorative. It's like it's frivolous. It's even though recreation is key. So, I like to use the word celebratory. Celebratory. It's a little bit more positive. >> Yeah. Um but, there's And does it make it less sacred if somebody uses it in for a deep spiritual purpose? Does it make it less sacred if somebody uses it at a party? And I don't think so. I think because the the the sacredness or the respect or the therapy, it's in the the context of what you bring it to. It's not in the molecule. >> Yeah. No, that that makes that makes a lot of sense. So, um let me ask you then, you know, for the people that are using it as an alcohol replacement, right? And that's very common now. >> Yeah. What are your what are your thoughts around that? >> enough, so um I just uh last week was at uh Brown University um in Providence, Rhode Island. It's like an hour from here. And they're >> went to medical school there. Oh. >> [laughter] >> Oh. Oh, it's a good one. >> I ended up in Kansas City, but I I did interview at Brown, yeah. They have a $2 million grant from the Veterans Administration to do a study a dual diagnosis study of veterans with PTSD with alcohol use disorder. >> Okay. So, up till now, um in the work that MAPS did in the phase three studies that we did, we were excluded by the FDA from working with people that had alcohol use disorder or any drug abuse disorder. We could only work with people that had PTSD. Okay. They could have coexisting depression, but not substance use disorders. So, now um people are um realizing that many people have this dual diagnosis. Those are the even the harder cases, and those are the ones that we want to work with. >> Hm. Well, we we do work with people that have attempted suicide. So, we want to work with the hardest cases. So, I think if you're using something as a alcohol substitute, Mhm. um if it's just another way to escape, so I would say ketamine of all the psychedelics is the most addictive because it's the most reliable escape. I think that's where people really need to um be very careful because it's a dissociative anesthetic. Um if you're using it as another form of escape, it's probably not going to do you any good. No. Um, if you're using psychedelics as a substitute for alcohol to get into the issues and work through them in a therapy way, >> Mhm. with the goal that you're not trying to do the psychedelics every day. In fact, you're trying that that I'd say the fundamental difference between pharma drugs, SSRIs, and >> Sure. um, antipsychotics, all these, that they're meant to correct some sort of biochemical deficit and the theory is you need to take them every day for forever. >> very long time, forever. And and, you know, and it's baked in that if you start trying to taper off of these, sometimes you have more problems, too. Yeah, for sure. >> So, it's perfect for the pharma company. The difference that with psychedelics is psychedelics, first off, combined with therapy and only used a few times embedded in a psychotherapy process to get to the root cause to make it so that you can do um, memory reconsolidation, you can work through these traumas. It's not like they go away or they didn't happen, but they're not the foreground, they become part of the background. >> Yes. And then you can move forward. Right. And so, I think that's really what people need to be thinking about is that, um, just a substitute one dependence or addiction for another is is no good. But if you use the psychedelics to get into the issues, that could be helpful. Yeah, I mean, I think there's some major studies out there. So, ketamine assisted therapy versus just therapy alone is extremely powerful and more long-lasting, much better result rate. Yeah, and and I think this is my big I'm glad you brought this up because this is my big fear of and worry, I would say, of the way the whole psychedelic field is going in that the for-profit companies are looking at Johnson & Johnson, which is marketed Spravato for ketamine. They just published something a couple weeks ago saying that they're, um, I think it was the fourth quarter of uh, 2025, they sold over $500 million. Of ketamine? >> Of ketamine. So, they're on track to being a $2 billion annual sales of Spravato. Jeez. Meanwhile, Spravato at 4 500 or whatever they charge per dose is an isomer of ketamine, >> Uh-huh. but ketamine itself maybe we should explain isomer. Every molecule is like like our body, we're right-handed and left and we're bilaterally symmetrical. Yes. And molecules break like that, like mirror images. >> Mirror images, right. >> Yeah. And so, a molecule is called racemic when it has both the right hand and left hand. So, all the all the molecules we know, MDMA, they're all racemic. >> Racemic. And they're known to be useful for therapy. So, what Johnson & Johnson did is they decided that they would work with one of the isomers of ketamine so they could patent it. Yeah. And then developed a new delivery system, nasal spray. >> But ketamine itself is one of the world's essential medicines and it only costs a dollar or so. Yes. And when you inject it IM, uh, intramuscular, it's better than Spravato. Yeah. But the problem is the incentives so that Johnson & Johnson is not incentivized by what's best for patients. >> No. They're incentivized by what's best for their shareholders. >> Right. And what you see when you provide ketamine or Spravato without therapy is that it only lasts a short time and you keep needing to get more and more of the Spravato. And that's what they want. You keep coming more and more back to it. But when you do it with therapy, again, you're integrating the lessons. You're the goal of doing ketamine-assisted therapy is to make it so you don't need the ketamine or the therapy. >> There's an end to this. You're done. Yeah, you worked through it. You've >> [clears throat] >> you've kind of processed this this Yeah. terrible things that have happened to you that you feel are overwhelming if you approach them. Yeah. But then you learn you can approach them and then you don't need to run away for alcohol or numb the feelings. You've learned you can process them and then you can do that on your own without the therapy and without the ketamine. Sure. >> So, the the general concern I have is that the for-profit psychedelic field is looking at Johnson & Johnson and saying, "Wow, that's great, you know, $2 billion annual sales." And so, they're separating drug from therapy. And these companies just want to be drug companies. >> Right. In this case, the drug is psilocybin or even potentially MDMA or LSD and it's it's a race to the bottom. Yeah. You know, they don't call it therapy, they call it uh, psychological support or monitoring or they they they prohibit people from doing therapy in these studies. Wow. And then they think, "Oh, we'll just sell this psilocybin." So, Compass Pathways just put out, um, their latest results, uh, just yesterday, um, from their, um, phase three study. But they're saying they understand that they've got this bare-bones treatment and people will figure out how to embellish it so the results are better. Mhm. But that should be their responsibility. >> Right. Right. >> company is going to be making all this money charging off this drug, they should be the ones to try to optimize outcomes for patients. >> Right, but they don't. >> don't make money on the therapy. Well, there's, you know, there's so many stories of of pharmaceutical companies, um, you know, CEOs that have retired and then come and come clean and say, "Oh, we had a drug to cure this issue, but we squashed it because there's no money in curing disease, right?" So. [snorts and laughter] Although that's not so much true anymore cuz look at the cure for hep C. Yeah, that is true, yeah. You know, that's like $70,000, but it's so the the company can make a lot of money off that. So, Yeah. it's just easier to sell something that just controls symptoms over and over and over, but >> but I think this, um, and and look at all the orphan companies that have orphan drugs. So, an orphan drug is is defined as a drug for a disease that has 200,000 people or less per year. And these are rare drugs. So, in general, pharma companies have not developed drugs for these rare diseases. But now, you have 7-year patent protection, even if it's, um, not patentable if you're treating an orphan disease, you get the 7 years uh, right to have a monopoly to sell your drug. And you can charge enormous amounts of money. So, a lot of the big money makers are now these orphan drugs. >> Yeah. Charging. So, I think it's just, um, it's just a laziness or it's just people in pharma companies are just trained to think about the bottom line, >> Yeah. not about what's best for patients. And they even ignore the fact that you can still make a lot of money if you cure something. Yeah. But that must be so incredibly frustrating for you because you've been for 40 years, you know, you've been running MAPS and you've been fighting for the use of responsible use of psychedelics for the treatment and, you know, full stop, treatment of of these psychological issues, but then a pharma company comes along and makes billions of dollars by patenting one isomer, but it's not a treatment, it's just like a another prescription Yeah, subscription. It's enormously frustrating. And, um, and I think it's, um, to to say what I think our biggest mistake was in in all these years. And it relates to the pharma company, um, that we launched and then had to take in investors and then eventually lost control over. >> Yeah. What we the the original vision was that, um, in 1986 when I started MAPS, I thought that it would be a generic drug. Mhm. Because MDMA was invented by Merck in 1912, the molecule is in the public domain. >> Right. And I learned about MDMA in 1982, but it was already a therapy drug for about 6 years. >> Sure. So, the therapeutic use was also in the public domain. Mhm. So, I assumed that MDMA would be generic and therefore it could only be developed through the FDA by donations. And then it would become a generic, which is great. 28 years later, after I got my PhD in 2001, I thought I knew everything about what I needed to know about drug development, which is kind of a dangerous moment when you think you you know everything. But I learned because of bromo-LSD. So, actually, what happened is once bromo-LSD was determined to be better than LSD or psilocybin, the Harvard patented bromo-LSD. Mhm. Got it. Right. And so, it was 28 years later when I, um, chanced into a meeting with the patent attorney >> Mhm. for Harvard who did the bromo-LSD and I said, "You know, there's nothing like that for MDMA." And he said, "Well, there is something you don't maybe know about this, but it's called data exclusivity." Mhm. What's that? Data exclusivity was actually signed into law by Ronald Reagan in 1984 Mhm. in the Hatch-Waxman Okay. um, laws about FDA. What it means is that it's incentives for developing drugs that are off patent. Okay. So, you have exclusive use of your data, but another company can develop its own data. So, you don't have a patent, you can't block other people, but if you get a head start, then you can have a monopoly position for a period of time. >> Got it. So, in in uh, 2014 when I realized this, we created the MAPS Public Benefit Corporation, which is cuz I didn't want to do a normal pharma company >> Sure. where you maximize profits. Public Benefit Corporations are a modification of capitalism where you where you prioritize public benefit. And minority shareholders cannot sue the management if you're not maximizing profits because you've got public benefit objectives. >> Yes. And so, the idea was now MAPS people make donations to MAPS, MAPS invests in this public benefit company and we're the 100% owner of it. And once MDMA becomes a medicine, then we're going to be able to have an income stream during this period of data exclusivity, so we won't have to constantly go back to donors and say, "Keep giving us more money and more money." Yeah. So, that was the plan. And then by 2018 and 19, we'd raised all the money for all phase one and phase two and phase three research. But the mistake that that we made is we believed the experts saying that um we needed to prepare for commercialization. Mhm. And I didn't know anything about commercialization. And so they said you need to raise 60 or 70 million dollars right away. You should have started last year and public benefit means not just getting it approved but getting it to people and you need this commercialization infrastructure. Mhm. So that's where we started to take in investors cuz we couldn't raise that much money that quickly. >> Yeah. Okay, but the mistake that we made is we did not quantify what we meant by public benefit Mhm. and then link that to bonuses, stock options, and salaries of the management >> Mhm. so that they would be incentivized by public benefit. Yeah. And once we started doing that >> Yeah. there had been too much separation and so the company was now more independent and they refused to participate in these developing these public benefit metrics. Mhm. Got it. So now they're incentivized the same way. Now now the good thing I'll say is that the I did bring in several new investors to take over from these investors who didn't want to do public benefit. So uh these two new investors are investing from their foundations not from their funds. >> Okay. And they're not doing it primarily to make money. >> Mhm. And what they've indicated is that MDMA should be generic once it's approved, let's say by the FDA, it should be generic in all of India, in all of Africa, and in other countries, too. So now Lebanon has been added to that. >> Oh, that's congratulations. That's great. Yeah. And and they've also said that once this data exclusivity period is over which is in the US, it's 5 years, then for pediatric studies, you get 6 months and it's really important to treat people closer to the trauma. So then you get 5 and 1/2 years of data exclusivity and then it takes the FDA 6 months or more to evaluate the um data package from the generic competitor. So it's around 6 years. >> 6 years, right? The company it's now 10 years in Europe, though. Um Europe did data exclusivity after and they realized that they wanted to provide a longer period of time. So it's 10 years in Europe. Mhm. Um but they've said that they will not try the traditional pharma company patent tricks of patenting stuff so you can sue generics to block generics. >> Mhm. Mhm. So I'm I'm somewhat hopeful in in that sense. >> Yeah. How How many years away are we from from MDMA completing its studies in this Well, I would say that um I don't really know because now the pharma company is independent >> Mhm. Yeah. and is negotiating with the FDA. Okay. But what I what my guess is is that um about a year uh well, in June of last year um RFK Jr., the head of HHS, said that he wanted to see some sort of approval for psychedelics within a year. Marty Makary, who's the doctor who's ahead of FDA, said that psychedelics are a priority of them. Yeah. What's just happened um that's just came public a week ago or so is that the FDA has developed what they call priority vouchers Mhm. which are for um national priorities and this priority voucher will mean that the FDA will do an accelerated review process in just several months instead of Wow. the normal 6 to 8 or 12 months. >> Okay. And so there was 10 companies that had been selected by the FDA and then approved by HHS as getting these priority vouchers. >> Mhm. And then it went to the White House. And one of these 10 companies, only one was psychedelic. It was Compass Pathways with psilocybin for treatment-resistant depression. >> Right. And so what had come out just last week is that somebody in the White House said no, we don't want to give this priority voucher to psilocybin, to Compass Pathways. So they were knocked out of it. >> Oh, darn. >> So there's a little bit of a resistance. >> Yeah. Okay, but to get back to your question, when will we have something with MDMA? >> Yeah. Um it was in August of 2024 that the FDA rejected the new drug application from um at the time it was called Lykos to um it was MAPS Public Benefit Corp, but then we had a disagreement on patent policy and I said um you don't deserve the MAPS name anymore. You should go ahead change the name and they changed it to Lykos. Lykos. And then now they changed it to Resilient. Mhm. But this idea was that there is um the rejection that happened and then a review of all the video tapes to see if there was any um sort of bias that was there that was these accusations cuz we feel that the therapists are more effective if they've done the drug that they're giving to their patients. >> Mhm. And so traditional psychiatrists would say, I give electroshock to my patients, I don't need to take it. >> Yeah. Or I take antipsychotics or I don't need to take it. >> Right. And I'll say, you're totally right. Yeah. But when it's psychedelic therapy, the therapist is part of the treatment. >> Right. If they understand better what's going on, they'll be more more effective. So anyway, all these accusations about bias because they'd taken the drugs and they believe it worked and so there's been a review of the video tapes um and then I think within the next couple months, there will probably be some announcement from the FDA about here's the path forward. And I think that they will say there is more research that they want to gather, but I think now this again is just my guess that it'll be focused more on safety and that the they will accept the efficacy which we demonstrated. One of the big issues at the FDA rejection was that they didn't gather information on positive adverse events. >> Okay. Yeah. Now, the point of positive adverse events is that they think, oh, you might like the drug and therefore you're likely to abuse it after therapy. Mhm. We had a bunch of the people in our studies said, I don't know why they call this ecstasy because when you take MDMA to work on your traumas, it's painful. >> painful. But you can do it. >> Mhm. It's not party drugs. So So we don't see that much of people going to use but in any case, um I think there'll be some sort of discussion by the FDA in a couple months about what's next >> Mhm. to get full approval and there'll be some kind of partial approval. My my guess is. And and the reason I say that is that I believe that the efficacy has been determined and one reason to say that is that it's throughout >> [clears throat] >> there's MDMA research throughout the Veterans Administration. >> You know, I just mentioned the two million dollar grant to do MDMA with veterans with PTSD and alcohol use disorder. Um there's a 10 million dollar grant >> [clears throat] >> that the Department of Defense has given two 4.9 million dollar grants for MDMA-assisted therapy for active duty soldiers with PTSD. Oh, that's incredible. >> Yeah, that's incredible. >> Walter Reed which is combining MDMA with acceptance and commitment therapy. The other is um in Texas at a place called Strongstar in Emory um in Atlanta combining MDMA with prolonged exposure. Wow. I think that this idea that that people who have been stuck for decades sometimes can still get better. We We had somebody who had PTSD from Vietnam in our study. Wow. And they were still able to get better. So I I think that there's enough of a sense of unmet medical need Yes. and that this works. So I that So my guess is that there'll be some kind of provisional access in certain limited ways with additional research Right. and then but but again, these are just guesses. I don't know directly. Yeah. But but that's my thing. Now, meanwhile, though MAPS is doing work around the world. Right. And so I'd say that the in in some ways I think what is some of the most important work that's being done with psychedelics anywhere in the world is being done in Israel. Mhm. And so we have MAPS Israel which is a separate nonprofit in Israel. But it's the only study of which I'm aware of any psychedelic that's a direct comparison of individual therapy versus group therapy. Mhm. Okay. Cuz the theory is that individual therapy works really well. The FDA um insists that everything begin with individual therapy. But group therapy could potentially be close to as good, maybe even better or maybe similar but a lot less costly if you can use the group to support each other. >> Right. So this is going to be the first study ever and it started in screening and enrolling to do direct comparison of individual versus group. And from a statistical point of view um just to educate people a little bit is that when you have two effective therapies, individual versus group um to find a statistical difference between them requires large numbers of people. The the smaller a difference you're looking for, the the larger number of people that you need. Right. Um so what this study in Israel is designed is called a non-inferiority study. It's not looking for one to be superior to the other. It's looking to be that they're more or less in the same range. So it's called non-inferiority. Okay. And because it's not as powerful of a statement, you're not saying one is more Yeah. valuable than the other, more useful than the other, you need smaller numbers of people. So this is 168 people. Makes sense. >> about 3 years. So I think that um the globalization is what I'm working on now. So MAPS has left the development of MDMA um into a medicine through the FDA to Resilient, the pharma company, and we're we're no longer involved in that. >> Got it. But because we're a nonprofit, what we're focusing on is global humanitarian projects that are non-monetizable. Right. And so that's where I I mentioned before we started talking, we just got a $800,000 grant and it'll be in sequences to bring MDMA healing to Lebanon. >> Lebanon, right. And you know, we're doing a lot of work I mentioned in Israel. We were in Dubai. We're we're going to be inviting people from the Abu Dhabi Department of Health to send therapists to the training in Lebanon. Um we've got projects in Somaliland in Africa. We want to do work in Rwanda and South Africa and Kenya. So this is kind of the um the edge that I'm working on now is the global access. >> Got it. Yeah, it sounds like, you know, you there's a lot of I would say headwinds in the United States to getting anything done here with the FDA and the politics of everything. Well, I would say that we one of the key things that I realized looking at the history with that you know, we talked about how psychedelics were wrapped up with the counterculture in the '60s and the anti-Vietnam War. And so there was this political backlash. So in this new era of the psychedelic renaissance, I realized that it was absolutely essential that we get bipartisan support. And that's where the work with veterans came in, too. >> Yes. Because and we have managed to get bipartisan support. So I think that there are headwinds, but they're not as Not as bad as before. >> Not as bad as before in any way because we do have um some a lot of support in the Trump administration for moving now. I'm not sure who in the White House slowed down this Compass priority voucher. But it is still is moving forward. Yes. Yeah. But but there are headwinds, but I think they can be overcome. >> Yeah, and you're right. I mean, with the current administration, there's definitely a priority put on some of these methods that were not there before and also deprioritization of giving the pharma industry even more power than they already have, which is already which is also helpful, too. >> Yeah, yeah. One of the joke things that we've done is one of the things that the current administration is considering is stopping pharma ads on TV. >> Yes, I saw that. Mhm. Um I think they're mainly doing that not because they care about pharma, because they want to weaken media. They don't want independent media and they get a lot of money from pharma ads. But we we've done some fake pharma ads just for fun. >> [laughter] >> Like have you asked your doctor about MDMA yet? >> Right. Right. I love that. >> kind of like you know, do you want to fall in love again? MDMA for couples [laughter] therapy. Something like that. So it's been pretty fun to just play around with that. But but I agree probably that um it's not such a good idea to advertise drugs to in a public setting. We should focus on the doctors and you know, it's only America and New Zealand I think that permit direct ads to consumers. >> Right, exactly. It's it's not something that's not anywhere else in the world that I know of and it's is done here. Yeah, and I think also, you know, the the pharma industry is going to hit a major battle with Trump's new plan as well to you know, giving the United States most favored nation pricing for a lot of these drugs, too. That's also going to weaken that industry. Well, I would just say that a lot of what Trump says doesn't actually >> That's true, too. take place. [laughter] And so you know, there was going to be a 10% cap on credit card interest. That's gone. That's not happening. So I think he's throwing out a lot of things, but whether that will actually you know, come about because there there is um It's hard to say this, but but I mean, there is value in large prices to pharma companies to support innovation. That's true, too. Yeah. >> So one of the things that's um Well, here's another. Pharma companies will tell you that it costs around $2 billion to make a drug into a medicine. And so I could never raise $2 billion. So I looked at where did that number come from? >> Yeah. And it's done by the Tufts Center for the Study of Drug Development. And the most important thing to say is that they amortize all the failures Uh-huh. >> into the few successes. So if you're a pharma company and you've had, you know, a hundred a thousand drugs that you've manufactured and then a hundred that go into animal studies and you know, and by the time you get into the ones that are approved, you've had enormous amount of failures. And so they amortize all the cost of the failures into the So that's why it's the $2 billion. Well, that's one of the reasons. The other reason is that they permit the pharma companies to talk about the opportunity cost on the money. So it takes a long time to develop a drug. And they figured it out the last one I've seen and they may have changed this, but it was 12% per year. So let's say it's a 15-year period of time from you develop a new molecule or you figure out what it's for. So they're charging all the interest on that money if you would invested it in the stock market or got 12% wherever. And instead you put it into developing a drug. So the opportunity cost is enormous. Then there's opportunity cost is almost 50% of this. Then you add the cost of the failures. >> Right. And so it really if you start out with a drug that we know works like psychedelics >> [laughter] >> and you just go direct >> Yes. a couple hundred million dollars. Yeah, absolutely. It's a lot lower. It's $200 million to get something approved if you're not counting the opportunity cost and you're not counting the failures. >> Yeah, even less than $200 million. You know, particularly but the other part that really matters is how strong is the effect. >> Uh-huh. We talked about that before. The stronger the effect, the fewer people you need to show it from a statistical point of view. So our two phase three studies that were approved by the FDA were 100 people each. So the Compass Pathways has done two phase three studies. I think they've had well over a thousand people. You know, and so SSRI studies sometimes have thousands and thousands of people in them because the effect is so small. So I think it's um it's used by the pharma company this $2 billion number to justify charging high prices. But I do think that a lot of what pharma companies do is a gamble and it doesn't work. And so there is some justification for a reward for innovation. Yeah, and we do need to fund the innovation as well. And so they you know, if you go to any of these campuses for these drug companies, they're massive and um where I live, there's a few pharma companies have massive campuses. Most of them are science. Most of the space is used for science, actually. So something has to fund that. I get it. But I do, you know, to your point, you know, opportunity cost of money should not be factored into the drug development cost. That doesn't make sense. Yeah, it only makes sense because they think of themselves primarily as business, not as healers, not as trying to solve disease, but as trying to return shareholder value. That's true. Well, I mean, it's very hopeful that we can start using psychedelics for treatment of these psychological problems that we people have been struggling with for you know, since the beginning of psychology, right? And is was there a time in psychology where psychedelics were used more frequently? Well, I would say that so again, here we are in Cambridge. The psychology building is the William James building. So it was in the 1890s that William James started experimenting with nitrous oxide. And he talked about nitrous less in a therapeutic context, but more in a spiritual context. That nitrous would give him the sense of the multiple different kinds of consciousness. And he's got this famous statement saying that anybody who doesn't take into account the other states of consciousness that are separated by the filmiest screen from our normal consciousness is not really taking full consciousness into account. Um and I think it was 1896 is when Arthur Hefter did the first synthesis of masculine from peyote. So there was some research that was done in the '20s and '30s and it was often just for creativity. >> Right. And that there is a story that the book that reports it, the footnote basically goes nowhere. But they claimed that the chief visualist on Fantasia which is one of the most incredible Disney movies had participated in a masculine experience >> Interesting. >> in Germany in the '20s. >> Interesting. >> the visions that he got from masculine helped him to create Fantasia. So >> sense. It could very well be, but it wasn't really deeply integrated into um psychiatry or psychotherapy. It was only when it started to be 1943 is when Albert Hofmann had self-contaminated himself as he was resynthesizing LSD. And then the first study in the US was 1949. But in the '50s and '60s, there was an enormous amount of work on psychedelics for a whole range of conditions, including alcohol use disorder. Probably one of the more famous incidents is Bill W who started Alcoholics Anonymous actually in the '30s, he took um, belladonna, which is a disorienting psychedelic, but that helped him get over his alcoholism. And then it was in the 50s when he heard about LSD that, after he was already sober and had started AA, um, then he took LSD. And he thought that this has to play a major role in AA. Because, what what he said was is that this whole concept of people hitting bottom, you know, but once you've hit bottom, that's when you're ready to to look at things, but you've destroyed your family, you've destroyed your work situation, you've destroyed your health a lot. And he thought with LSD, you can precipitate the emotions of hitting bottom when you still have a little bit of an intact family system and job. And, um, he felt, you know, the surrendering to the higher power and all these things, but, um, he felt unable really to integrate this into AA. And eventually he left AA because he didn't want a cult of personality, but he also was frustrated. And so, it was really through the, uh, 50s and 60s that therapeutic uses of psychedelics started being developed. And then that was, um, squashed by the Controlled Substances Act of 1970. >> Yeah, exactly. And so now here we are picking it up again. And, uh, you know, I think most people out there have heard of many of the psychedelic options out there both in plant medicine and also, um, you know, the chemical compounds like, LSD and MDMA. And I'd love to kind of like go through all of them with you because I feel, you know, people are hearing a lot, they are asking a lot of questions, and people are suffering and they need options. And I think access is becoming easier now.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: MEk_4wwvSLE (https://youtu.be/MEk_4wwvSLE) ===

today's cool fact of the day is bulletproof radio hey everyone it's Dave aspey with bulletproof radio today's cool facts of the day is that LSD can relieve endof life anxiety after more than 40 Years of no studies of LSD the first clinical study of the therapeutic use of this stuff in humans was published in the p reviewed Journal Journal of nervous and mental disease and this happened last March and the results of the study showed that LSD when used medically can promote statistically significant reductions in anxiety for people who are facing the end of their lives this was a double blind Placebo controlled study and it was sponsored by the multi-disciplinary Association for psychedelic studies or Maps looking at 12 people who are nearing the end of their lives and today's guest is none other than Rick doblin PhD who is the founder of maps he's also the executive director since 1986 he's been working as a nonprofit group to look at what happens on the medical legal and cultural front when people use psychedelics and marijuana for non-recreational uses like like people who are using these to deal with deep trauma and things like that and Rick's actually been someone I wanted to interview since the very first bulletproof radio and like a couple years ago I sent a note out and I think we exchanged a couple things and it just never came together but it's coming together right now because I actually have him on the line I'm I'm up on Vancouver Island Rick you're in Berkeley if memory serves no I'm actually in Boston you're in Boston you live in Boston yeah yeah this is where I I had to move to uh convince my professors at the Kennedy School that I wasn't nuts so they actually give me a masters and a PhD well uh it's an honor to meet you cuz you've done some pretty amazing work and I'm I'm enjoying one of the the world's oldest smart drugs this would be a CH espresso oh great I uh um I I'm really a fan of of what you're doing because you're applying science to one of the areas that a lot of science is afraid to look and not and when I say afraid to look not just into Politically Incorrect substances um as a biohacker I I firmly believe that it's my biology it's my body and if I want to put any molecule that I can manufacture or find into my body it's no one else's business but mine but so that's that's my personal take on this sort of thing but if I'm going to put something on my body I'd like to know what it does and and what you've done for 20 years now more than 20 years is you look not just at Politically Incorrect substances that mean you have to deal with government regulation but you've also looked at death which is kind of a scary thing in and of itself and I want to understand and I want our audience to understand why are you doing this ah well let me um show you this uh stationary that I just picked up um it was the first stationary from maps in 1986 and it's got a quote from Albert Einstein on the bottom and the quote says um what shall be required if mankind is to survive is a whole new mode of thinking and the sentence that went before that was um the splitting of the has changed everything except our mode of thinking and hence we drift towards unparalleled catastrophe so my upbringing was um you know I was born in 53 I was initially um from a Jewish Family and was educated about the Holocaust and that was terrifying um and then I was involved you know as a young boy at school with all these U exercises about the Cuban Missile Crisis and what to do if nuclear arms race you know falls apart and we have nuclear explosions and we just go under our desk and we'll be fine you know but that was terrifying you I saw the lead lines desk you know yeah and and then um you know I was um the last year of the draft for Vietnam so encountering oops all of these um sort of lifethreatening terrifying kind of aspects of humanity um I also had the um Good Fortune of um I feel like a the multi-generational struggle so my great grandparents on one side grandparents on the other were immigrants to the US um my dad was they managed to survive then they did well my dad was a doctor and and all and then I had this um ability to really focus on deeper issues other than um food and shelter for survival and so I I was growing up in this way where I was just very much much um privileged in a way to have my food and shelter needs taken care of and so I was sort of responding to uh the deeper threats and including trying to figure out what to do about Vietnam I started trying to understand how to respond to that and I was you know growing up in the 60s and hearing the stuff about LSD and all but I was basically um believing the propaganda that one dose of LSD would make you somehow or other permanently crazy and that it would be destabilizing for the rest of your life but I was looking at psychological mechanisms of what was going on in the world and I felt like this dehumanization of the other of the projection of one's difficult Parts onto the other uh the scapegoating that that those were sort of core problems that could cause people to fear and then work against and kill other people and so it it started me thinking that this um mystical experience of unity and what I think Albert Einstein was talking about in terms of the whole new mode of thinking I think you know it made me think that there's some way if we can help people to experience their sense of connection with everybody that that is a ground for more peaceful discussions negotiations things like that and then when I first um read one floor with the Cuckoo's Nest by Ken key and was told that part of that was written while he was on LSD which I couldn't believe that made me question everything I taught was taught about LSD and so I started experimenting at it with it and my first year in college and when I did LSD I started getting these feelings that there was something fundamentally healthy about it and healing instead of sort of inherently brain damaging and I had these intimations of these feelings of connection and feelings of um going beyond my ego and so it felt like that experience would be something that had major political implications as well both therapeutic and political and I was um having a hard time though with my LSD experiences and also uh experiences with masculine you know somebody came by a campus with a half a pound of masculin this is in the 70s I'm guessing yeah this is 71 okay right before I was born got yeah yeah so you know I bought a half pound of masculine and my friends and I um you know um shared it and you know so all these different things I started getting this feeling that that these psychedelics were incredible tools and then I started realizing they' been used for thousands of years and then when I really woke up though in 7172 it was when the Crackdown had happened and the massive backlash against the 60s and these drugs were taken out of the research labs and people were heavily criminalized life sentences sometimes for people for selling the things and so I started feeling like there's a unhealthy social reaction against them and then because I decided to become a draft resistor for Vietnam um I started realizing that I was probably going to go to jail and that I wouldn't be able to have a normal career and all of this sort of came together as an 18-year-old where I decided I want to become a underground psychedelic therapist and of course I need my own psychedelic therapy and then I'll work towards bringing these things back up from the underground now you you just said psychedelic therapy now probably 80% of people listening to this driving their cars right now are going what the heck is psychedelic therapy and this guy is a little bit crazy now I I know what it is but talk about the history uh I know you studied with Stanis grav yeah and could you talk about what he did the number of patients what you learned from it and and just what is psychedelic therapy so that people who know what therapy is understand how psyched could possibly be related oh okay so um let's go back a little bit further to where we hear about Freud and the whole idea of you know psychoanalysis and so what Freud talked about was the dreams were the royal road to the unconscious and that in therapy if you work on people's um unconscious material you can help them make a lot of progress so it I think that psychedelic the word means mind manifesting and that would Encompass dreams dreams are psychedelic in the sense that your unconscious mind comes to the surface every night and many of us uh remember our dreams in the morning we all have them at night and that they can be a tool for our deeper feelings and urges and fears and anxieties and hopes and dreams um so LSD Stan gra has said that LSD is for the study of the Mind what the micro scope is for biology and the telescope is for astronomy so LSD is a um what he called also a non-specific amplifier of the unconscious so when we talk about psychedelic psychotherapy what we're really talking about is um the the primary thing is the Psychotherapy and the there's a lot of non-drug psychotherapy before and after a psychedelic experience to prepare people for it and then to help them integrate it but under the influence of a psychedelic drug which would include MDMA as not a classic psychedelic but still brings uh manifests the Mind manifest things uh that we've previously suppressed so MDMA LSD even marijuana would be called psychedelic um by this definition and material comes to the surface and then you can work with it and and in different ways so I think for people who have a hard time a little bit with understanding what psycho psychedelic Psychotherapy is really just think back to the origins of Freud and it's about working with your dreams it's about material that comes to the surface that these drugs facilitate but the drugs in themselves are not the treatment it's the drug plus the Psychedelic and we actually call it MDMA or LSD assisted Psychotherapy so that it's the human relationship that takes place between the therapist and the that is really the core and the Psychedelic just brings all sorts of material and different psychedelics do different things and I think what Stan gr was a Czech psychiatrist and in the 50s he he's 83 now uh we're actually going to Israel next week because he wants to uh talk about the common mystical roots of Islam Judaism and Christianity like like mithraism and baj and yeah so it's more the idea that mysticism is the antidote to fundamentalism and mysticism came from those little mushrooms that were red with white dots on top right yeah for a lot of people yeah so it's got thousands and thousands of years even in the history of Western Civilization the Greeks had the longest running mystery ceremony for 2,000 years the elosan Mysteries and that was a potion that they drank called kikon that had a psychedelic component to it and that was ended in 396 by the church the Catholic church so the so Stan was basically a psychiatrist in the 50s and Sandos pharmaceutical company which had developed LSD Albert Hoffman in 1938 he invented it in 43 uh accidentally took it and figured out what it was they sent it around to psychiatrists around the world to figure out what to do with it and they thought it would be helpful training psychiatrists to work with people that were psychotic or schizophrenic they they initially saw it in a way as a temporary uh Madness um but they later learned really that isn't what's a good way to describe it but Stan ended up working with thousands of people with LSD and into the 50s and then when the Russians came into Czech Czechoslovakia in ' 68 he escaped uh to the United States and worked at Johns Hopkins and actually I wrote him a letter in U 1971 uh actually 72 I wrote him a letter because um I was so disturbed by my psychedelic experiences I wasn't really capable emotionally of processing the material of opening up of surrendering to it that I went to the guidance counselor at new College in Sarasota Florida and said I'm having problems with my LSD trips and it was a time of uh America where you could say that to your guidance counselor and they wouldn't immediately kick you out of school it was great a very different world than today very different and he ended up giving me a manuscript copy of Stan gr's Realms of the human unconscious wow it was incredible and so when I read that that's where it all came together for me because this was a report by Stan about the LSD research that he had done both in the Czech Republic and at Johns Hopkins with heroin addicts alcoholics cancer patients all sorts of people and he felt that he was able to describe a new cartography of the mind like he could map the unconscious and that that's what he meant by LSD is for the study of the Mind what the microscope and Telescope are that it brings things to the surface and so when I read this book I was just really thrilled because he was coming at it from a rigorous scientific perspective but looking at religious spiritual things but he wasn't a philosopher he was looking at it from a therapist point of view like how do you actually help people get better from suffering of of any number of different kinds and yet at the same time he had this you know uh discussion about mystical states of experience how they were correlated with therapeutic benefits and I felt here was U my whole world sort of came together and I felt this is it this is what I want to do it's really bring science into spirituality and therapy coupled with psychedelics and that this would be a way in which um to sort of move forward because I think many of us kind of associate with the 60s The Beatles and you know Make Love Not War and um The Beatles were very much into psychedelics and so was the Ken keesy and the grateful Dad and and so this whole idea Steve Jobs and and you know sting and and many other greats magically somehow did a little bit of this right yeah yeah yeah it's it's like it's like when um with gay rights you know everybody um knew somebody was gay they just didn't know they knew somebody was gay cuz people were keeping if we could just have you know a day where everybody who had done psychedelics and it's influenced their lives uh could speak about it people would be shocked Who had who the the range of people that have been influenced by psychedelics and and so it it felt like since they were so demonized and the the the American system and President Nixon was so focused has done stopping all the research and throwing all these people in jail that it it felt like kind of a revolutionary U act to try to bring psychedelic therapy back and it also felt personally that I needed it and I I felt like a another way to say it is that we have and what Albert Einstein was talking about is that we have developed our technology our rational mind uh to a miraculous extent and we have incredible tools but we've not sufficiently developed our emotional spiritual capabilities so that we can handle the technologies that we have so so what did Stan do when LSD became illegal like he he shifted his methods a little bit um can you talk about that a bit I think listeners would love to hear about that that's sort of the the drug-free trip that that also has healing experiences yeah yeah well you know there was this General sense that when the control Substances Act uh was passed in 1970 and criminalized substances um most of the people that were involved with psychedelic research went into looking at non-drug Alternatives how do you anchor this and then we see the rise of the meditation and yoga and um all sorts of um biof feedback all all different ways to try to really anchor and ground these experiences and what Stan recognized is that the tool that's been used for thousands of years is breathing and that you know from his experience as a psychi psychiatrist a lot of times when people come to the um emergency room with a psychiatric condition um they're hyperventilating and people are you know therapists and doctors are instructed to sort of uh calm them down and so Stan recognized that if you could hyperventilate but not try to suppress what happens but try to bring to the surface what happens that that would be an alternative to psychedelics and what what he used to say was that um nobody could ever make breathing illegal but but he was actually wrong because it turned out that in France um they have these laws against Cults and they decided that the holotropic breath work that he was developing this hyperventilation was a cult and so they criminalized it so wow that's only in France I I guess yeah it was shocking so so many people have gone to this holotropic breath work and have felt that the experiences that they had were as deeper deeper than the experiences that they had with psychedelics i that was my experience I I've done holotropic breathing three times and two of those times were with Stan himself and you know stand's like like the inventor of this stuff and and really it's an ancient like ayurvedic yogic technique that he adopted and he's added some music and and there's a whole set in setting like you would have a psychedelics but I've also tried iasa with shamans uh you know shamans in South America and you know been in the jungle drinking stuff and throwing up and you know the whole experience I've had more healing from holotropic breath work than I have from using the few times I've used psychedelics always in a healing uh therapeutic context I think it's it's it's foolish and dangerous to take psychedelics and go to a party or go to go to Disneyland it it might be fun but there are there are things that can happen and I've witnessed people on holotropic breathing have deeper healing and awareness than people I've also seen on on other substances who suddenly realize oh my God I was molested for 10 years and I didn't know because our powers of self-deception is so high so it it's shocking but there are multiple gateways into the brain and I'm paraphrasing here and tell me if I'm wrong but my my perception of of your work with maps is that you're looking at ways to use these psychedelics as tools rather than as recreational substances and these are as tools for personal development for for healing trauma and I mean am I am I on the right vibe there because we got a lot a lot of parents right now who are going oh my God like you know how how could Dave have this guy on bulletproof radio like you know he's pushing drugs no like this isn't like an anti like don't walk into these psychedelics because they are they're big and you had problems with your own experiences and you had to go for it yeah yeah yeah I think the the um the the main point here is that if you think about Maps as a nonprofit pharmaceutical company trying to develop psychedelics and marijuana into FDA approved prescription medicines so we're trying to work within a very rigorous scientific context trying to make these drugs available as prescription medicines but not as take-home medicines like the current anti-depressants that we have where you're supposed to take them every day and take them for the rest of your life and make the pharmaceutical companies Al loone of money these are meant to be only given a few times and they're given under supervision and I think what you were describing before with the holotropic breath work is that it really is the feeling of safety and the feeling that you can be supported that people are know these states and that if you are going to any letting up new material things that you've been scared of or suppressed in the past if you feel safe and feel supported then you can let things come to the surface and the the kind of context that Stan creates in the holotropic breath work is very supportive and that people where they've done LSD in recreational settings um a lot of times they don't feel feel a safe and they're trying to navigate you know in the physical world so part of their mind has to be you know making sure that they find their way home or they don't run into traffic or or even different ways so that there's um a lot of individual support and the other thing with the breath work is that you can start and stop it on your own it's not like when you take a drug you're in for the ride and there's advantages and disadvantages to that other thing that Stan did that I thought was elegant and beautiful about the breath work is that there are all these breathing techniques that are very sophisticated that have been developed for thousands of years about breathe in this nostril certain number of times and breathe out that nostril and so what Stan has done is he's boiled it down and he's basically said breathe faster and deeper exactly that's it and find your own way so it's not it's not cluttered with a lot of Dogma there's a warning though that that would go with that um I don't recommend people practice holotropic breathing by themselves until you know what you're doing and even then having someone usually a therapist someone who's trained in this with you at a minimum is is a really good idea and and one of the things that that helps when you're doing something like this whether it's psychedelics or whether it's breathing that also induces these profound self-awareness Altered States it's that you're laying there and you want to be able to to leave your body like I've done during holotropic breathing and and it's kind of a scary experience but knowing that a friend or someone you trust is there to like take care of your physical needs makes it easier for you to like push the LI you know what you're hiding from yourself or whatever it is you're working on um and just kind of doing it yourself in in your dorm room it's going to just be a very different experience and you might not like the results yeah well just for an example so as I said um you know Stan is in some ways very idealistic so we're heading off to Israel next week and we're going to have a holotropic breath work workshop a two-day workshop as well as lectures and Tel Aviv in Jerusalem and the way that they're structured is that people divide up into Pairs and so everybody who's breathing has a sitter who is there with him just to protect his space to remind him when he stops breathing he or she stops breathing and then in addition to having somebody there sitting with you you know observe how you're doing and sort of helping you there's trained facilitators and so we're having one trained facilitate facilitator for every 10 people that are breathing to rotate around and then in addition their stamp so that this is a very heavily supervised and supported context and it's surprising but just through hyperventilation you could end up triggering incredible experiences that you would never have predicted ahead of time would come up is it's amazingly powerful technique so this shares a lot in common with uh with what happens when you have a therapeutic use of these different things these different substances that that in my experience of them in healing context they they sort of get in the way of all the stuff you think about all the time so you stop thinking about it a while and then when you go in and you look at what's left like that's where you can do amazing things for your ability to to change yourself um even something as simple as as a float tank I I mentioned before we started recording the new human hacking facility here on Vancouver Island I put a commercial grade float tank in there for that exact reason and I think you have some experience with floating as well yeah yeah oh yeah well at the same time that I was 1972 that I was uh doing LSD and reading Stan Gro I was also reading John Lily and John Lily was the inventor of the flotation tank and he had written this book uh programming and metaprogramming and the human body bi computer and that book was about research that he' done in the 50s and 60s that was funded by the US Navy where he developed this flotation tank partially they were thinking about what happens when people go into space and they tried to eliminate all the sensory input and he would eventually he started doing LSD inside the tank and started trying to think about the brain as a computer and which parts of his brain and experiences were being catalyzed some some elements of biohacking in that thinking for sure hecking the human body cool yeah so friends and I you know experimented with our own isolation environments and eventually built our own flotation tank and then I had a tank at my house that I uh had for years and I've done LSD in the tank and marijuana in the tank and nothing in the tank and I've spent a lot of time floating in the tank and um at the same time I I found it tremendously helpful absolutely very helpful because um you you know initially the flotation tank for me it looks like a coffin right totally like you're getting into this coffin and then when you're in it there's only like 10 in of water heavily uh salt water so you can float you can completely relax and you could even fall asleep in it and the water is um sort of above your ears but below your eyes nose and mouth and you can relax your neck muscles which is amazing you know to to realize how much tension we're constantly keeping in our neck but you're able to actually relax so much that it changes from like a coffin to Infinity you're just floating you know because you don't touch anything you don't feel anything the temperature of the water is similar to the temperature of your body and the air um it it's just remarkable of a of an environment and and then you get comfortable with yourself and with your thought process it's very deeply relaxing and so I was um experimenting both but I do think there's um looking back on my life there's kind of a cautionary tale about John Lily and the difference between John Lily and Stan grath so that I think Stan was focused on healing that was the primary thing he was using alter non-ordinary States Of Consciousness using LSD using uh holotropic breath work but his his mission in a sense was healing whereas John Lily had this more um intellectual will focus on understanding and I think he also once the Crackdown came whereas Stan was able to move from working with LSD to developing holotropic breath work John Lily I think felt like this is you know stupid people stupid world they're you know backlash and he kind of got uh arrogance about him and he ended up getting very involved with ketamine and ketamine is a psychedelic well it's a called a dissociative anesthetic and in lower doses it's like a psychedelic and you can remember it um and and he kind of I think escaped into this um what seemed to him like a more spiritual higher plane but was actually escape and he ended up so I had sort of these two Heroes you could say Stan and John Lily and LSD and the flotation tank and then I really learned a lot from both of them but I felt like um with John Lily that it was really tragic how his life ended and how he became more um you know running away and and I I do attribute that import to this um arrogance that he had and and impatience and and a a terrible disappointment when these incredible tools when the backlash squashes them all um it's just brilliant that Stan was able to go forward with the holotropic breath work uh I I think he he brought something of Great Value to me uh there were times in my life when I probably didn't realize that the world was as as emotional and spiritual as as it is because I didn't really like that but when I did holotropic breathing I'm like oh maybe I hadn't noticed that before but it it can cause some profound shifts in in your perception yeah what didn't you like about it you know I I grew up in a very science-based family you know we you read the skeptic Inquirer sort of look at everything as as a truth table I study computer science uh so the world should be logical and my perception now is that I have a logical part of my brain and I have a hugely irrational part of my meat operating system my body uh and that the irrational and the rational both exist inside my Consciousness at the same time depending on what level I'm at and that neither one is superior to the other but by having awareness of both I'm actually happier and I perform better and I can help other people more but it was that awareness that I had to at least acknowledge the existence of the irrational yeah that might be important uh and then the value of it so that was just you know my own ego but um holotropic breathing did paint a very different picture of reality for me um than what I thought was real so um W having that sort of Awakening experience whether it comes through a therapeutic use of these things whether it comes from a drumming ceremony with a shaman in South America where you're you know drinking uh from a you know the Twisted Vine all of those experiences they can lead to some sort of thing I need to pay attention to that and when I do pay attention to that my abilities in this world are different than they were before and that's um that's a great gift and however it comes to you it's it's it's a powerful awareness but it comes with responsibility and and that's one of the things I wanted to ask you about like uh you much of the history of the evolution of Consciousness is intertwined with our our plant and the ogens but um what do you say to people who say okay you know John ly was funded by the Navy you know did the CIA dose Russian operatives with LSD like like isn't there a bit of a uh you know these things can bring up things but don't they have a dark side as well well definitely and in fact I think the best way to think about these things is they're tools and some people want to make them into entheogen so the new word for psychedelic is entheogen you know to bring out the God within so I never use that word I don't like that word at all I think it's too positive the same way the word hallucinogen is too negative like it's a delusion and it's not real so you know the surgeon's knife can save your life and the same knife can kill you so it's it's why we say it's MDMA assisted Psychotherapy these drugs are dominated by therapy or by culture um they're not automatically Illuminating the truth that if you look at the iasa churches that you're talking about that work down in Brazil they're homophobic they're hierarchal they're patriarchal they're trapped in their own cultural sense and so we're all struggling to kind of get out of our own subjectivity you know out of our own cultural programming and these tools can be helpful for that but they're just tools and I think what we have the big problem of prohibition is that we've made drugs they're good drugs are bad drugs and the we've invested properties in the drugs whereas it's really about the relationship that we make with the drug and I think by criminalizing certain things we don't focus on the relationship and so LSD is either you know the demon drug or the tool to you know mystical awareness whereas it's really about how it's used how you prepare for it and then even more importantly what do you do with the experience once you've had it so when we go back to talk about psychedelic Psychotherapy just to give you an example our our approach with MDMA and we're working with veterans so that's another connection with the military is that we have a three and a half month treatment program and during those three and a half months people get MDMA only three times and once a month and they have weekly non-drug psycho therapy before about 3 weeks before they have the first MDMA experience we have our experiences during the day they start at 10: in the morning they go till around 6:00 at night people stay in the treatment facility they stay overnight and then they have hours of non-drug Integrative Psychotherapy the next day then they go home and we call them every day on the phone for a week for 5 minutes 10 minutes 15 minutes just to help them do the processing and the integration then they come back for once a week for about 3 to four weeks for non-drug Psychotherapy then they have the second session and then that repeats again for their third session and then there's weeks and weeks of integration afterwards so this is essentially a psychotherapeutic process that's punctuated occasionally by these powerful experiences with MDMA or with LSD or soloc cybin that bring experiences bring things to the surface and what you do with them is really the key and I think that's a major distinction between recreational use where people are going for the experience itself and they're looking for having just a narrow slice of the experience they only want to have a great experience they only want to be happy and with therapy we're looking at not so much what happens although it's crucial what happens but we're looking at what people bring back and how we can anchor and ground it so that there is therapeutic change and so we've talked to people that have taken MDMA ecstasy at a rave at a party women and they've said you know while I was there I remembered having uh been raped I remembered sexual abuse and I was with a bunch of friends and they all wanted to party and so I felt like I had to stuff my feelings down and then I ended up feeling worse off and Disturbed for months afterwards I I can tell you fully three4 of the times that I've used um hallucinogens in a group with with intent for healing not a party group but often times it's quasi Recreation like everyone there is there not not to have a good time and dance in bright lights but you know we're sitting in a quiet place and doing things just about every single time at least one person has an awareness like that and if there isn't a group of aware people to support them it is it's really traumatic as all hell and being able to sit there and walk someone through realizing that that the the story of their life the way they've played it isn't actually what happened right it's seriously ungrounding but it's also healing and it allows them to change their behavior in a very meaningful way but if you don't have the right friends there and they're not there to listen and you don't feel safe talking to them um really don't especially if you've never had any of this stuff don't go try it at a party like it's just a bad idea yeah and even the idea that you're going to take this drug for only one sort of slice if you're intention is I'm only going to take this for fun you're you're setting yourself up for a problem because a lot of times when difficult stuff comes up if you attend to it and work through it it's like um grief you know if you let out the tears a lot of times you'll feel better it doesn't even take that much time but it takes courage and a willingness to do it and if you're defending against it what we found actually with LSD and with other drugs is that the more open you are to it the shorter the experience the more it goes through you and the more resistance there is to what's emerging the longer it takes and so I think that if people have this narrow sense this is a fun drug and I'm only going to take it for fun and then something difficult happens they could really end up a lot worse off and so one of the things that we're doing is what we call our Zeno project and it's harm reduction psychedelic harm reduction and we do this at festivals all over the world at The Burning Man and boom Festival in Portugal and we're sending I've seen you guys at Burning Man and I I saw the people you were helping so that's valuable work so thank you for that yeah yeah we're we're just sending a whole team down to Costa uh for Invision Festival so basically the idea is a lot of people at these festivals will'll use these drugs for fun and then something deeper happens and they're not prepared for it and the normal response is that they get taken to a medical staff they get either tranquilized or if they're really disruptive they get arrested and then it becomes a long-term problem but if we can offer supportive Care by people who are trained and know that suppressing is not the thing letting it out is the approach then people can benefit from these experiences and then go back even to the party if they want but that we're trying to create a model for a post-prohibition world and we're also trying to just educate people about how there's more depth to these experiences than people might be uh anticipating or preparing for and that a lot of people will get in trouble so in a sense prohibition is a terrible counterproductive idea but legalization doesn't eliminate all the problems anyway either and so that's where this idea of providing supportive care for people and getting across and it's different in the United States the um the Rave act has criminalized harm reduction and it's made it so that it's a sign that you know drugs are being used if you're a promoter you could go to jail and you can have your assets seized if the police want to come after you for harm reduction efforts but it's perverse but in uh Europe it's different so at boom Festival they do on-site drug testing they end up um telling people what they are getting so everybody knows what dealers are on notice you mean you you can have your your drugs tested before you take them onside drug testing is I love it that's so different than the US oh my God it's thin layer chromatography it's not just like you know little chemical pill you know liquids to see the reaction they tell you exactly what's in it not only what you think is in it but what everything else is in it wow it's incredible I mean one time we were there actually and somebody um collapsed on the dance floor and it was shortly after he'd taken something and we were able to find out that what that was it was LSD and that he didn't wasn't poisoned and that we just needed to sit with him and eventually he came around and he was okay but it was psychological but having that ability to know what people take I mean one of the biggest problems of prohibition is that uh drugs are adulterated and people don't know what they're taking and there is this human urge to uh change your State of Consciousness to try to reach these other more profound emotional states I mean you talked about how you're irrational and logical both but a lot of us feel like we're trapped in the logical part and we're disconnected from our feelings and we're scared of them and once they come to the surface they're going to take over in a way and that's like keeping um you know a dog you know Chained and wrapped up you know in a cage in your basement when it comes out it's kind of wild but if a dog is treated with love and you know eventually you can make friends with the irrational parts of your brain and the emotional parts of ourselves so I think bringing to the surface these irrational energies is the healing aspect to it even though they're really powerful I I'm amused that you chose dog as the analogy in in the bulletproof diet book I just at the New York Times best selling list um I talk about you the three Labrador brain behaviors you have and these are the irrational parts of of the body but one of the things you do is you can train the dog if you can see it and then suddenly the rational Parts get easier and the irrational Parts make more sense um but it's just funny that that you chose that analogy because it's it's one that works yeah yeah well you know as part of my early time when I was experimenting with LSD and also with the flotation tank um I raised a a full bred Alaskan Timberwolf oh wow yeah that is some serious heavy duty training yeah yeah for 2 years and the the amazing part of it was that um wolves are born with their eyes closed for the first few days and so I was in Sarasota Florida at new college and that's the home the winter home of the wringling Brothers Circus and also carnivals are there and um there's people that breed wild animals for carnivals and this one person was breeding wolves and U lions and tigers and stuff and wasn't taking care of them and the Humane Society shut him down and the female wolf was pregnant and had a litter of eight and the zoos were full the sanctuaries were full their natural habitats were under attack and so they just put an ad in the paper like wolf cubs for sale and you had to be um you know interviewed by the humane society and then you had to build the six foot high fence and but the the point was that these wolves were taken away from their mother when they were born and bottle fed and so when they opened their eyes they bonded on people and so I got this wolf at 8 weeks and lived with him till he was 2 years old and then eventually found a sanctuary that opened up that had a female wolf that needed a mate so I I had him I howed with him I could run I I built my house in Florida at the edge of town and there was hundreds hundreds hundreds of Acres of empty land and I could run with him off the leash through the woods wow and it was just fantastic but this was people's in image of a wolf is you know this ravenous A Little Red Riding Hood killing kind of you know grandmother killing uh you know merciless Hunter and actually they're tremendous um Family animals they babysit for each other's Cubs they're very social they don't attack humans and I learned a lot from this wolf and um I mean just to say one of the things that that persists to me to this day is that when I would walk well walk with him through the woods and run with him through the woods he had so much energy that that he would just like run through things or over things and so I got this idea the Straight Ahead thing and if there's an obstacle it's just a opportunity for exercise rather than like let's go you know the easy way around so if if you notice and I think everybody who's listening if you can imagine wherever you live there's sidewalks there's all sorts of ways where we're channeled to go certain ways and that's not always the direct way and so I find myself whenever I walk across a lawn or step off the path trying to go the direct way that's my wolf that's what I've learned from the wolf and it's it's like the same for mental things we we're so channeled into habits and patterns that we don't notice a lot of the world going by what what was your wolf's name fadis um why did you name him that well there was a book called Zen In The Art of Motorcycle Maintenance did you read that yeah it's a famous book yeah yeah well I just actually I've got this uh young woman who's um let's see 23 that works for maps and I was just talking to her today about this and I asked her if she knew the book and she'd never heard of the book oh wow so um and uh hopefully she'll read it but it's a fantastic book and and so fedis is really a character in The Plato dialogues and it's a character who's from the country and the dialogue with fedis is about the taming power of love and I thought that that would be a really appropriate name for this wolf because the same way with our unconscious and with um you know these urges you know and the irrational that if we can approach them with love and acceptance uh they can be uh tamed they can become our friends rather than our enemies wow that is that's amazing what a what a fitting name yeah do you have enough time to go for about another 40 minutes if so we can okay let's do that and we'll doing a double episode so if you're listening to this this is one of those cool things I'm going to end up like flaking on a couple other people on supposed to call but this is way more fun and more interesting so this is the end of of the first half of the interview which is awesome with with Rick doblin from maps and what we're what we've just talked about here is some of the reasons you might consider legalizing and using psychedelics under settings for healing not just all willy-nilly here and what we're going to talk about is specific psychedelics and what they do and why you might want to use them so the first one is maybe a little bit more legal spiritual like like what why what's the reason behind this and our second conversation will be us talking about the specifics and the nitty-gritty um so this this is an amazing opportunity to talk with a guy who's spent many many years doing things like training wolves which is awesome or he trained me a lot of ways too there you go fair enough so would you share where people can find information about your work URLs and things like that yeah um people could go to maps.org Maps like mapsof thee world maps.org and the website has got enormous amount of information and they could learn about all that we're doing with all the different drugs and also about our uh harm reduction our psychedelic harm reduction projects if we're we're a nonprofit organization and we exist entirely based on donations so if people wanted to make a donation that would be particularly appreciated tax deductible donation and um Maps multi-disciplinary Association for psychedelic studies it actually came the name came from a book by Ralph metzner and Ralph was one of the people with Romos and Tim ly at Harvard that was sort of part of the original uh group at Harvard that brought in sbin and LSD and the book was uh maps of Consciousness and so I was trying to start a nonprofit um I was trying to I knew I wanted the word psychedelic in it and then when I I was looking at my bookshelf and there was this maps and I thought okay it's got a pee in it I can work with that so maps.org okay maps.org now and Stan gr's work he's written near the holotropic universe many many things and we've talked about that a lot I'll put links to his his stuff in here into the show notes when you come to the website you'll be able to see that now there is a cool fact of the day at the beginning of every show and I just asked Rick for a cool fact of the day so I didn't have to make one up because I didn't know we were going to do a double double header here so Rick go ahead tell us your cool fact of the day well the LSD study that we recently completed in Switzerland the first LSD study in 40 years the cool fact is that of the 12 subjects who are in that study 11 of them had never done LSD before it's not a bunch of Aging hippies that are facing life-threatening illnesses and now they are turning to things that they did when they were young we're trying to mainstream psychedelics and in that study we were able to reach out to a new generation of people and get 11 other 12 people who' never done LSD before to volunteer for the most highly demonized and feared of all the psychedelics that is uh that is an amazing piece of info that that people are more afraid of death than they are of Poli it makes sense yeah well well that was part of the political okay so I guess um I need to explain that um you know I I have my PhD from the Kennedy School of government at Harvard and my MERS also and focused on the regulation of the medical use of psychedelics but I learned a lot of political strategies and when you're dealing with something that's demonized as much as LSD and other psychedelics are when we try to bring it back from the underground from the suppression we have to Pi pick therapeutic purposes that the mainstream people will be willing to accept and so that's where death people are more scared of dying than they are of drugs so if we can show that psychedelics can help people who are anxious about dying to be less anxious and to appreciate more of their lives while they still have them that's one way a doorway into the culture you know the other is um people who are traumatized that we have great respect in our culture for soldiers for Veterans for people who have sacrificed for their country and now are suffering and so MDMA for post-traumatic stress disorder and Veterans or women who've been sexually abused as a child or raped as an adult or even people any of us who are caught in a natural disaster that we have to treat we have to get beyond the US and the them and so this is sort of the them so and everybody's going to be dying and so we're all worried about that to some extent we all could be traumatized and so those were the the key clinical indications that we've decided to use to bring psychedelics back into the mainstream cool yeah I uh I I love the way you put that and it it's so much better than the cool facts of the day that that I was I was thinking about here so so thank you for that in our last episode when when you were talking about training a full-blooded wolf you talked about Little Red Riding Hood and my cool fact of the day was was going to be that one interpretation of the Red Hood in Little Red Riding Hood is actually a reference to psychedelic mushrooms and when you look back at a lot of these fables there are obvious Clues to to the fact that psychedelics were a part of basically these attempts to tell a story of what's Happening inside your subconscious mind um which uh I was kind of Blown Away by when I read that I'm like well it doesn't make sense why why did you have this bizarre odd experience in the middle of the forest it clearly isn't real well maybe it's because she was talking about an inner experience versus an outer one yeah but yours rocked well you know I think people don't really understand that our culture is a historical aberration and that the whole idea of probation is is not something that's been widespread throughout human history I mean it's it's about power and domination but that most cultures of the world have found a way to integrate psychedelics and the non-ordinary states of Consciousness and the irrational into their understanding their religion their healing methods and that we're sort of struggling against this um unusual situation that I think in some ways by separating the rational from the irrational it's produced an enormous explosion in knowledge and in the the mind this massive development of our intellect and all of the technology that we've been able to do that and sort of has kept out of um religion we we've had that with Galileo and cernus where the scientists and religion started clashing and so then they were kind of separated but now we really need to bring them together and I think that's one of the really exciting things there there's actually an experiment that's being done in Switzerland with lifetime meditators who are given high-tech brain scans before and after a Meditation Retreat and during The Meditation Retreat they're given Sil cybin mushrooms and they're looking at how that might deepen their spiritual experiences deepen their meditation produce um altruism and um positive pro-social things does this sense of connection what are the political implications but it's it's a way where science and religion are coming together now in a way that they haven't for 4 500 years and I think that that's going to end up with the psychedelics um being welcomed back into our culture I I certainly hope so and it's funny that you brought that out because one of the first things I wanted to ask you about in this episode where we go through each each of the substances was about psilocybin or so-called magic mushrooms and we've always kind of thought that most of the huc or psychedelics are uh are stimulants but but it maybe isn't quite that simple what else did we learn from looking at brain scans of people who are using these medications or these medicines yeah well there there's a woman named Amanda Fielding who in England has started What's called the Beckley foundation and her interest has been in understanding what happens with psychedelics and blood flow in the brain and and her view was uh that for the last 40 50 years of her life that psychedelics stimulate the brain and that they will cause more blood flow in the brain and that will be somehow related to more awareness and one of the things that I respect tremendously about Amanda is that she sponsored a study using fmri with siloc cybin functional magnetic resonance and what she discovered what what was discovered directly re contradicted the theories that she'd been working with for the last 40 or 50 years but she was able to wrestle with it and accept that that's what happened so what she found this is Robin carart Harris of Imperial College uh David nut was involved with these studies and what they discovered is that psilocybin actually reduces blood flow in certain parts of the brain and these are the parts of the brain that are known as the default mode Network so what what that means is the default mode network is sort of your resting state your your sort of basic state and it's been ident identified in some ways with the ego with who we think we are wa watching and and looking for survival based things it's our sort of default that we refer back to is this sort of ego awareness and what psilocybin does is it reduces the activity in this default mode Network and so what the default mode network is doing is there there's so many perceptions that our senses are bringing in all the time through hearing through sight through smell all all sorts of stuff that's happening that we can cannot pay attention to all of it so we kind of narrow our focus and we pay attention to those things that relate to our our self our survival our enhancement our Pleasures we kind of have this narrowing of Consciousness to what's relevant to our individual ego and self and what psilocybin does by weakening the blood flow to these default mode networks is it permits a flood of Sensations to come to awareness and so that's why a lot of times people feel that time is um speeding up that there's so much happening in a in a moment because there is always that much happening in a moment but we're only focusing on a portion of it so in instead of psychedelics contributing to more blood flow in the brain they contribute to the weakening of the part that filters and we get this sort of unfiltered flood of material that helps us realize how much is going on helps us feel the connections between everything and it's um it's it's a tremendous insight and it's completely uh contradictory so that's where I think this idea of Science and religion and therapy coming together is what's going to be really the tool to massive healing and also to introduction of new approaches in our society for Spiritual experiences and a new understanding of what is this spiritual mystical experience well that's uh very well said and I've been studying the default mode and and the active mode in the brain and even working on some new technology to allow you to be more aware of what's happening in the default mode because creativity and intuition and all this the the Unseen stuff is in there and if you can fish stuff out of there often times that's the name for your new product that's that that intuition that's you know figuring out the structure of the IAL structure of DNA came from a dream and and making that bridge more accessible is is pretty interesting and if it turns out a substance can be used as a tool to help you have more or less default or active mode and those brain States produce better performance healing experiences whatever they are it it seems like those are technologies that we ought to know about given that we own these this Hardware in our heads and we could do something with it so yeah well I think it was actually the Benzene ring that came from a dream and the helical structure of DNA came from Francis Crick and in the 50s now this is um I love it you're totally right by the way keep going okay yeah so um in 1953 U Francis Crick now he never said this when he was alive but after he was dead a friend of his said this was that they were using LSD in low doses for creativity and in fact there's a lot of people doing that now today oh yeah I know a few so what what he claimed is that on one of these LSD days he had the Francis Crick had this idea of the helical structure of DNA and we know that polymerase Chain Reaction which is how we replicate DNA now it's the key to DNA analysis Carrie mullus was the fellow that developed that and he won a Nobel Prize for chemistry for that and he says that he was influenced by marijuana and LSD in coming up with it and that it was part of his creativity and in fact he um I reached out to him shortly after he got his dobell prize and we had a a communication and he sent me this quote that was absolutely fantastic that we've used a lot in the maps bulletins and what he said was um I think I would be stupid in some respects if it weren't for my psychedelic experiences so we we have this kind of unusual connection between psychedelics and DNA and the understanding of how we operate and and I think there's there's this intuition that um many people have that that is somehow or other that we have this incredible technological development we don't have the emotional Spiritual Development and that psychedelics can play a role in bringing things into balance and Albert Hoffman who invented LSD um had that sense that that there was a similarity in time between the uh First Chain Reaction and the development of Ls the discovery of LSD and in fact um some of the the major um dealers and chemists uh particularly Nicholas sand who developed orange sunshine and has created a quarter of a billion doses of LSD in his career his father worked on the Manhattan Project so did my grandfather and grandmother by the way really really yeah they actually met on the Manhattan Project in Chicago before they moved out to Los almus wow she was a nuclear she is a nuclear engineer and he a PhD chemist but yeah Manhattan Project had all sorts of strange stuff going on yeah what what do they say to you about this uh the irrational Parts when you talk about you know making friends what did you get from them I'm super curious you know Engineers are engineers and and the the prototypical engineer is driven by the logic part of the brain yeah so you know if I talk to my grandmother now it is very much uh almost Asperger like was like no this is you know it's the way it is and it's and it's cut and dried and and I I find that I'm sometimes two things like I can see it from this perspective but like my my body feels this way but my mind says this uh but it's not stressful because I recognize that they're just different phenomena I don't think that my grandparents experienced the world that way uh because they really worked hard to line up um the rational brain as being in charge and to sort of force the emotional stuff to fit even if it didn't always fit okay you know have great respect for them all right so when I was you know 10 years old and we have this you know around the Cuban Missile Crisis and the the whole nuclear arms race what did your grandparents you know think about that I mean did they feel like the world can handle this technology or you know you know one of the the and I'm sort of paraphrasing for my grandmother but um one of the great sort of frustrations that that I remember as a child probably sometime in the 80s was that she was asked to testify before some Congressional panel about the use of either Pebble bed or breeder reactor some kind of reactor that would eat up spent uh nuclear Fuel and recycle it and could create earthquake safe uh reactors wow and she was like like the science has changed so much since 30 years ago if we would just make safe ones like we could power everything and there wouldn't be any waste and when she went there to to talk about this basically what Congress or the panel or Senate I don't ask government body what they told her was well you have a vested interest because you come from the industry so we don't believe anything you're going to say and she's like I'm a scientist like who else are you going to ask about this there is no and and she was really frustrated by that because she saw this huge opportunity not for blowing stuff up but an opportunity for actually you know pumping water to deserts an opportunity for fixing climate change and ring Fuel and she's always been working for you know a world from those FRS and devotes huge amounts of her time and energy to that even now to a smaller extent she's getting quite old but you know she still has that that desire to help wow and it it's it's very interesting though to look at you know the creation of this which was also to help you win a war Etc yeah onto energy so it it's a fascinating question yeah cuz that's where I I was inspired by Albert Einstein that's what we started the first hour with the was this idea of um the technology that we have threatens the world and we need a new mode of thinking and I think that is this wrestling with the irrational and somehow or other taming the wild the Beast that causes us to fear and hate the other the people that are different than us and and how do we do that and and I think for me um you know we talked about how breath work is really helpful so I think non-ordinary States Of Consciousness psychedelics breath work meditation any number of different ways I think are really what's going to be needed to balance the um sort of logical parts of our our species yeah there there's definitely um a big difference emotionally between killing something in anger or fear and killing something with intent but Consciousness and when you talk with you know a very elite you know Navy SEAL special operation kind of guy it's a different vibe than you know that the sort of angry Soldier kind of movie perspective that that's that's portrayed there you know you you you can do it in anger or if if you're at that State you know you're you're doing it without the huge emotional stress that happens there and and it's this is all very hard to express in words because a lot of this is internal feelings and what I'm feeling is you're not feeling at the same time so we can't both say that's the color blue and and that's why half of spiritual literature makes no sense whatsoever cuz someone trying to explain something they felt that you don't have words for but um there is there is something to be said around our capacity for violence and those inner parts of our subconscious that are there around making sure the species survives even if that means eating and killing everything around you to do it but if you let that be in charge instead of letting you be in charge you're not going to like what happens and what's in my own life I found is that under understanding that that part of me when it's in charge I'm probably not going to know it unless I'm constantly Vigilant and well trained that's really important and that allows me to be in situations where normally I'd be like you know what like you know let's throw down like all right no like I'm going to adjust things because I can tell this is not what I'm choosing to have happen this is something that's happening in my body and and you can you can learn that but without something to make you pay attention whether it's holotropic breathing whether it's neuro feedback which has been a huge Improvement for me neuro feedback F Tech um without something to teach you that stuff even just heart rate variability training you're probably going to do things you regret and you're going to feel guilty about it and then like you spend a whole huge amount of time and energy doing all that stuff instead of doing something useful or at least fun yeah and I think people are also um we're all kind of into patterns and we've got when it comes to adjusting our patterns to accommodate new information that's often really difficult and I think that's where this openess to the new and openness to change that you kind of is the Hallmark of successfully taking a psychedelic is you have to surrender or even doing the breath work that you're voyaging into the unknown and you really have to let go of the known and open to uh whatever is going to emerge and if you can do that the discoveries can be remarkable well well let's talk a little bit more we mentioned psilocybon already psilocybin and smoking addiction does it work well I I I would first off say that it's the research that's been done with psilocybin and smoking addiction is um again let's not focus too much on the drugs it's psilocybin plus a cognitive behavioral approach towards reducing uh nicotine addiction and when you combine those approaches they have remarkable success and it it's just really remarkable how effective they are so it's it's but it's not just here you're a nicotine addict here takes a little side but and then you're not going to be you don't get a mushroom patch and then you're done with smoking yeah it's it's um well actually a um my my wife's um one of her closest girlfriends um married a fellow that worked for um fizer and he developed chanx which is the um anti-smoking drug and it works pretty well um to help people um get over those Cravings but even then it doesn't work as well as this combination of psilocybin and the cognitive behavioral therapy but again um that's more labor intensive that's people that are self- selected they they're open to the psilocybin experience um and so I I think that there's remarkable potential for psilocybin for LSD for masculine and peyote for iasa in the treatment of addiction and where I indicated that we're primarily focused on uh end of life anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder addicts tend to be the other and we demonize and and so that's where that's coming along really well I think it's very important the work that's being done with psychedelics and the treatment of addiction and because it it sort of helps people again see that it's not the drug these psychedelics are considered drugs of abuse it's how do you cure drug abuse with a drug of abuse it's how it's used and so I think that's very very important work and there was work in the 50s and 60s with LSD for alcoholism and in fact Bill W who started AA um had his first experience with belladon that got him to stop alcohol so he had a kind of psychedelic experience somewhat Disturbed but that sort of woke him up and then later once he was sober in the ' 50s he tried LSD and he felt that LSD would have a tremendous potential for the treatment of alcoholism and he even tried to introduce it into AA but it was it was in fact there's a book The Bible of AA called pass it on it's by Bill W about his life and there's even some chapters about his experiences with LSD and I met the people that gave him LSD and heard about his experiences and and read his own writings about it and so what what what we have with addiction in most cases is that people are running away from stuff and they're denying what's going on so they're they're not looking at what's going on and they also feel isolated and alone a lot this is more so for heroin cocaine other things than than nicotine but that there's this sort of two-phase aspect to the healing potential of psychedelics for addiction in that that same sense where the default mode Network where it's weakened things that you're not wanting to look come to the surface and in a supportive environment with holotropic breath work or psychedelics or bio feedback or at the flotation tank if you you sit with it people you can see and wrestle with the things that you've been not trying to see but the other part of it is that psychedelics can give you a sense of connection to yourself and to the world around you so it's an antidote to the isolation and loneliness that a lot of times drives people to drug addiction and William uh well um Carl was actually approached by Bill W um and talked about what to do for alcoholism and he said the cure for dipsomania which was alcoholism is religio Mania so that and a lot of times you see AA is a little bit like a religion uh in in many respects but we look at the Native American Church they are 500,000 people in the United States that went to the Supreme Court have uh won a major victory that says that they can legally practice their religion in the United States and one of the main uses of peyote with the Native Americans is in the treatment of alcoholism and Other Drug addictions and we also see that in uh South America with iasa that a lot of times iasa is used for helping people deal with addictions there's a center in Peru called takasi which is focused specifically on helping people with addictions so I think the soci nicotine addiction study that was done by Matt Johnson and others at Johns Hopkins with remarkable results there's now being worked with Sol cybin in the treatment of alcoholism and we're trying to get back to the leads that came from the research in the 50s and 60s and these drugs I mean to give you a sense of um that there's there's something different for each drug like psilocybin is a little bit different than uh LSD a little bit different than mesculin a little bit different than iasa uh but they all have a lot more in common than they have difference let's let's talk about say ecstasy or Molly or MDMA um I know there's a connection with anxiety that's even with autism PTSD and fets walk a little bit through about like what what the therapeutic uses of MDMA might be this is in in combination with therapy not just as a daily daily thing you take so what what what should we be researching that we're probably not researching enough well um you mentioned autism so we have a study at Harbor UCLA which is for autistic adults with social anxiety and what with MDMA and we have a this was not um a study that we came up with the idea on our own it turns out that there's a lot of young people who are on the uh autism spectrum on the Asbergers who've gone to Raves and parties taken MDMA ecstasy Molly whatever and said wow now they can understand body language more and they can understand their own emotions and they can understand other people's emotions and it had a lasting effect and a woman Alicia Danforth did a PhD dissertation gathering together all these stories contacting as many as the people she could and their families and doctors and verifying that that these stories were really true and we use that as the basis for trying to get permission which we did for a study with autistic adults with social anxiety and we're focusing on the social anxiety helping them to operate more in a social context we've got a study that we're about to start in San encelo California with uh people with life-threatening illnesses with MDMA and we're primarily doing research all over the world in Israel Switzerland Canada you know in Vancouver uh we're doing a study um in Boulder and Charleston and um with MDMA for post-traumatic stress disorder so basically though what MDMA does is different than the classic psychedelics so MDMA first off it does work on serotonin dopamine nor epinephrine but in different ways and what it does do is reduces activity in the amygdala the fear processing part of the brain and increases activity in the frontal cortex which is where people put things in context and at the same time it stimulates oxytocin and prolactin hormones of bonding love nurturing nursing mothers um have a lot more oxytocin and what it also does is that it helps um to think about MDMA it's basically halfway between chemically between masculine from peyote and methamphetamine so methamphetamine is a stimulant and it keeps you awake uh but it doesn't make you jittery masculine is a psychedelic which affects your perceptions it affects your um uh your logical train of thought but MDMA doesn't really uh do that in the same way so that it has the Psychedelic properties of masculine without a lot of the perceptual changes where people feel like they're still in control and it has the stimulant property of methamphetamine without being jittery and I should say that that Sasha shulan chemist and others have have developed hundreds and hundreds of molecules trying to find all these different properties and MDMA is the one he felt was the most therapeutic so what it does by um it's almost perfectly designed for the treatment of trauma or for the reduction of anxiety in any number of different ways what about the damage to the serotonin receptors like that's a drug that i' I've considered given that I've dealt with the trauma that everyone has but I've dealt with my own in lots of other modalities um I I'm concerned about serotonin sensitivity and all is there some risk with using mvma um well all drugs have risks and I think it would be um you know inappropriate and wrong for me to say that MDMA has no risks but I would also say that the risks of MDMA neurotoxicity have been vastly exaggerated okay and that right now if you go into Medline or Pub Med which is the repository of the world scientific literature in medicine since about 1965 and if you put in MDMA or ecstasy there's over 4,900 papers produced at a cost of roughly $350 billion we guess and these are mostly funded by uh governments of the world looking at the risks of MDMA and a lot of it was on the same question about neurotoxicity so we have an enormous body of information and just to go back a little bit when I started maps in 1986 um there was very early research that was done by Dr George ricardi at University of Chicago with MD a in rats and he felt that there was some evidence that it would reduce um serotonin and so that was on the basis of that the DEA emergency scheduled MDMA and so then I worked with George ardi as a major as my major relationship professionally and we switched to um I bought him the first monkeys to try to use species that were closer to us um and then we did a study that was called the no looking for the no effect level a no l no effect level so what we did was um MDMA was given um 5 milligram 2 and half milligrams a kilogram every um two weeks for eight weeks so um I mean every two weeks for four months eight times all right so at 2 and half milligrams a kilogram there was no effect on serotonin so once the doses get higher and higher then there is an effect on the serotonin system but the key thing is what are the functional consequences so we don't know brains are changing all the time so in our therapy study where people have get MDMA three times in a three and a half month process we've done neurocognitive tests before and after and showed no change from MDMA so there's no evidence in a therapeutic context of pure MDMA taken in roughly um 125 mg plus 2 hours later half of that 62 and a half so roughly 187 milligrams that taken during the day when people are not overheating they're not exercising they're lying down they're in those contexts then there is no evidence whatsoever that there is any neurotoxicity now we since have done studies in monkeys studies in humans and there's an enormous body of evidence that is um pretty clear that at the therapeutic doses that were talking about the risks are minimal compared to the potential benefits and so every single drug that you you know you see all these ads on TV for pharmaceutical drugs and you have this long list at the end of you know what are all the risks so I I think that the one the best evidence for MDMA neurotoxicity is the fact that for many people they report that over time MDMA loses its magic loses its Sparkle that there's something that is change and and I would say for marijuana that if you if you don't smoke it every day if you smoke marijuana once a week you can smoke marijuana for their whole life and every time you smoke it you're going to get high in a similar way so there is no sort of loss of magic or loss with marijuana and the same would be true we don't know that that really um happens for other drugs like LSD but with MDMA there is this um sort of loss of magic and it happens to different people at different times for me it happened after like 50 or 60 times and I still find that it's useful it's just not as profound and as deep and as peaceful as it was initially so that is I think the best evidence that there is some sort of brain change that makes it so people but it doesn't mean that I'm less happy it doesn't mean people are more depressed less happy anything it just has that highly specific thing and it's actually a safe a safety Factor because the drugs that people get addicted to are those drugs that once you develop a tolerance to then you just take higher and higher amounts to get to the same effect but with MDMA if you develop this sort of loss of magic you don't get the feelings back by taking higher and higher amounts you get more of the stimulant methamphet like properties so there's a built-in Safeguard so we know that there's loads of people that could be addicted to heroin addicted to cocaine for decades there are people that overuse MDMA but usually that's short-lived 6 months a year then they're uh a effect flattens and they give it up and then after 6 months or a year they're sort of back to normal so I think that there is a risk of MDMA but that in therapeutic contexts and even in most recreational context now there there really is no risk and now what happened with George ricardi is that this understanding was developing that that even though naida the national drug abuse was trying to say that one dose of MDMA caused permanent neurotoxicity with major functional consequences you should never do it even in research it was too dangerous that view was being eroded in all different ways by scientists all over the world and so George then did this study at Johns Hopkins with monkeys and he claimed that some somehow or other now he discovered that it really affected the dopamine system and he published a paper a famous paper in science the preeminent journal in the world in science that said that MDMA one single dose of MDMA could potentially cause Parkinsons like symptoms that you take MDMA you're going to reduce dopamine and it could cause Parkinson's the editor of science Dr Alan Lesner published an editorial about this article saying how important it was and that MDMA is like Russian Roulette and there was something about this research that didn't seem right and that was that there was a high number of animals that died in their study and we previously as I said I funded research with uh MDMA and monkeys I even have gotten spinal taps twice myself with George ardi and I've gotten Bunches of of my friends to get spinal taps because before brain cans came in to the best way to do uh understand about neurotrans transmitters was to take spinal fluid and look at neurotransmitter metabolites in the spinal fluid so that's horribly painful to I've had that done and man yeah you have to be dedicated to science to get a spinal taps put that way well I felt that there was a war on drugs and I was fighting on the part of drugs really on the part of MDMA and I could afford you know if if people can go to war for what they believe in I could get a spinal tap and point so um I did and it was to say I don't feel damage prove it but what happened with this study about Parkinson's is that we challenged it we wrote a letter to the editor of Science and said the doses that you're using aren't equivalent to human doses the route of administration isn't equivalent the animals are dying something about this doesn't make sense but they were losing faith that they could stop research by talking about serotonin damage and so now this was dopamine and then what happened about a year and a half later is that they retracted the study it was a tremendous Scandal because it turned out that they had switched the bottles and they were giving animals methamphetamine instead of MDMA oh man yeah I mean it's one of the biggest scandals in science you know over the last multiple decades human error right there something happened and they were so zealous to find problems with MDMA that they overlooked the fact that none of the previous research showed problems with dopamine our serot our spinal tap study showed no effect on dopamine and so they ended up actually they were quiet for like a year and a half cuz they kept trying to replicate the studies and they couldn't find dopaminergic dir toxicity and they kept trying to say okay we're going to give higher doses of MDMA we're going to give higher doses uh we're going to U increase the temperature of the animals because temperature is a co-actor for neurotoxicity we're going to crowd them together we're going to do all sorts of things and they couldn't find it and then they figured out okay maybe something went wrong and that's when they did an autopsy of one of the animals and said oh my God had methamphetamine not MDMA awesome so they they withdraw they had to retract that so that was around 2004 that was the high Watermark of the paranoia about the neurotoxicity of MDMA all right that's I I think listeners will be uh will be served by by learning that uh that stuff and there's things in there that I absolutely haven't known about I'm relatively careful with my brain despite what people who know my biohacking experiments with the electricity think and all right that that that's really that's really helpful we have a few more minutes and there's three different substances I want to ask you about okay so we won't dive as deep on those as we have um one of them is um um cannabis ah so let's talk about some of the potential medical or therapeutic uses of cannabis but we've got to go quick on this one okay well Maps I started in 1986 and so it's roughly 28 and a half years we've never had a government grant it's all been donations by individuals and family foundations we just recently received our first government grant from the state of Colorado 2.1 million yeah $2.1 million to study marijuana for post-traumatic stress disorder in US veterans with chronic treatment resistant PTSD so MDMA we've talked about we believe that MDMA helps people to um in a sense of cure I'm reluctant to use the word cure but often times it can cure PTSD and have a durable remission of symptoms marijuana for PTSD um helps people sleep through the night they don't have the nightmares it focuses them more on the present so the we have a system the endoc canabo system that responds to the cannabinoids to THC and CBD and others in a whole incredible variety of ways uh medical marijuana has enormous number of applications PTSD is just one of them pain um epilepsy we've seen this on sanj grp um he's actually working on Weeds 3 so the first two and weeds 3 is going to talk about our marijuana PTSD study in veterans because there's roughly 8,000 veterans every year that commit suicide and a fair number of them are from post- traumatic stress disorder and marijuana can help and yet we've had enormous problems getting this study started and there's a Government monopoly on the legal supply of marijuana that you can use in research and it's um held by the national inst on drug abuse they don't want to give it to you if you want to find out what's good with marijuana and we have to end that Monopoly so that's one of the things we're doing but marijuana is good for nausea control for cancer Cho therapy for appetite stimulation I mean everybody talks about the munchies well during the AIDS epidemic when people were dying of AIDS wasting they would use marijuana for appetite for cancer chemotherapy people lose their appetite so there's just an enormous amount and most importantly and then we'll go on to the other things is that we're now discovering that the cannabinoids have anti-tumor properties so marijuana does not cause lung cancer you talked about your lungs it's something that um tobacco clearly causes lung cancer marijuana does not cause lung cancer and there's epidemiological studies that show it there's been um naida funded research Dr Donald tashkin at the UCLA the world's expert you know marijuana can cause more colds more infections certain things in your lungs particularly for heavy smokers but there's anti-tumor properties that protect from lung cancer marijuana is it's just incredible what the canabo can do yeah I would add though that if you're if your cannabis is moldy it probably can cause lung cancer no well no it can cause other good stuff well no no I don't think so because if we would a lot of we would see that but but mold causes other kinds of infections but not cancer oh okay well we we have a much a much longer conversation a pub Med driven conversation about that one we're not going to do that now okay well I'd be interested that but but I I um I believe that um there's no epidemiological evidence or scientific evidence of marijuana but but certainly avoid molding marijuana there you go I I I hear you there um I'm I'm thinking more about apoxin being the most cancer-causing chemical we know of which is direct mold Toxin and if you have that kind of stuff in there which tobacco unfortunately does sometimes it does increase carcinogen carcinogenicity however if the anti uh anti-cancer effects of basically what's in the marijuana when it's vaporized and inhaled if they counteract that I have no idea I just know if you've got mold in there it's it's bad news and the more mold you have the more likely your cancer is so like anyway you shouldn't smoke moldy pot anyway it's bad right right okay so uh oh let me just add one thing which is that the um the concentrations that you need of the cannaboids to really kill tumors are greater than people normally get by smoking so that I'm not trying to say smoke pot you're not going to get cancer what I can say is that that certain kinds of brain cancers other cancers you need more direct um Administration is that like C CBD oil ah yes exactly exactly yes if you're listening in your car I just held up a little thing of CBD oil which is uh basically the the bioactive components of marijuana this this one is actually without at least reasonable amounts of THC so you don't feel it but it has those those anti-tumor properties yeah um so it's uh it it's awesome especially on that front just to see that there is real science being done it's not about these are good or these are bad it's just that these are tools exact and as a biohacker every tool on the planet is my right yeah and like to say oh don't use those tools we don't like those like sorry like like we're not in in high school with clicks anymore and the function of the internet and the cloud and all has been to let us have this conversation be let everyone else who uses these things share the science and end of the day I I I wouldn't recommend or not recommend you use these I would say if you are going to use any of these you uh you better do it with Consciousness and with some people to help you out or you probably aren't going to like what happens yeah well on this theory of on this theme of Rights uh one of our biggest donors is the Libra Foundation it's the Nick and Susan priter family and their Foundation is focused on human rights and they had a multi-year discussion about whether psychedelic research um is part of Human Rights and they decided that it was yeah amen yeah that that it's the right to explore our Consciousness the the line between the right to eat what you want and the right to use the psychedelics you want is very blurry because different foods affect how you feel and it's just a question of strength so if if you can make the argument that you shouldn't be able to take this you can also make the argument that you shouldn't be able to eat whatever nutrition makes you feel best and I I think it's a very slippery slope and uh the whole set of regulations there are um are anti-freedom yeah now there's two more drugs that I want to ask you about in and kind of go to almost snippet level so we fit into the window we've got for the podcast um one of them is is DMT or iasa great um one I've I've used in in a ceremony in in South America so what are some of the things that are interesting about it and why might we want to study it or potentially use it well um DMT um is orally inactive but people smoke DMT and it's incredible disorientation of your ego and people report spiritual experiences when it's mixed with certain kind of plants in iasa form with maois that you you it doesn't get metabolized in the stomach and so it lasts longer it's about U you know several hours or so and it has a more um therapeutic potential we're also uh Ms is trying to develop an expertise in PTSD there are a fair number of veterans who have and others who've gone down to um Peru and Brazil for iasa for PTSD so we're now starting a study an observational study of veterans who are going to go down to um Peru Mexico and experience iasa now iasa doesn't have as much of the fear reduction properties of MDMA but it can be scary as all hell to be perfectly technical about it yeah yeah so so again it's not so clear cuz you need the surrounding support and then also when you're vulnerable in a foreign culture in a foreign context often with foreign religions it's it's difficult to really feel safe enough to explore and so you know again what we're thinking though is that for some people the um the iwasa can can have a healing properties there's also work that's being done with IAS in the treatment of depression but there's there's sort of a tension here in that there's some groups that focus on the religious use of iasa and whatever happens healing comes from the the pursuit of the religious experience then there's others more scientific that are saying okay this is just a tool we can take it out of this context put it in a scientific context and in fact there's a group in um in Barcelona that's using Freez dried encapsulated iasa oh wow which is standardized so it's a way that to do standardized research they're doing brain scan stuff with it they're doing a whole host of research with iasa as a tool rather than as a religious Sacrament and so I think it has that same ability to bring things to the surface it's a little bit more embodied a lot of people vomit and feel like purging when they're on iasa there's a bodily energy you know they call it the power and the light there's a lot of activity in the brain um it's more condensed and shorter than an LSD or cybin experience um I think it has has tremendous U therapeutic potential and actually a lot of our support is coming from um fairly um successful business people who've been spiritualized you could say by iasa and the Supreme Court of the United States has said unanimously that the UN de vegal the udv um can practice their religious rights in the United States with iasa but you have to be part of the church and it's kind of a problem you know because you have to believe certain things it's uh it it doesn't seem like the government should be in the business of telling us what we have to believe to access chemicals that affect our brains right well well that's actually a really important point which is that religious freedom the problem is you need a religion you know so we we should say that we all have our individual human right to explore spirituality the way we want and we shouldn't have to be part of an organized religion to do it yeah and that's where I think we're going to find that religious freedom is going to move forward as it is but it and medical freedoms will move forward and both of those together will eventually change people's minds as we also watch marijuana become legal and we see the disenchantment with prohibition and mass incarceration eventually we'll get to this point where we have the freedom to explore our consciousness even if we're not technically sick with a diagnosable illness that that's really where we're trying to end up um that's uh that's remarkable uh we're up against the end of the show let's see the other thing is at the end of uh of every episode I ask the same question have for almost a little bit more than 200 people now now given all that you know not just about what your your work at Mouse but your life's experience the three most important things you would share with someone who wants to perform better at whatever it is they're here to do so if you want to kick more ass at life three most important uh learnings in your experience ah well the the first is to um not not so much care about outcomes but care about the effort and I think that was particularly something for me that I had to really focus on because when I started trying to uh work on my own psychedelic therapy and to bring psychedelic research back it looked like that might never happen or it might be uh you know multigen and it is turning out to be a multi-generational thing I'll only get a small portion portion of the way in my life so I think if you can redefine success as effort rather than outcomes although you really need to focus on outcomes to try to figure out if your effort is wise and effective but I'd say that that's really the prescription for for joy and for um not burning out um the the second I think would be to um I guess probably many people would say this but it's really to sort through to recognize that your life is actually very short and that you need to focus on what you're really passionate about to think about what it is that um you care about and that's more important than money and more important although of course we need money for survival but I think finding you know those things that that internal motivation that will sustain you throughout you know in the many different fors that that your work uh takes and then the other is just to um be able to sit with yourself when things are difficult and instead of like in the flotation tank or like with psychedelics the main thing is that um letting feelings in rather than blocking them that um opening up to what's happening it's kind of a meditative thing um but that you'll find that once you can sit with stuff things will sort out and you'll um you'll be able to um to see through the Mists and see through the the the flurry of you know emotional storms and just sit with that rather than so open rather than suppress I think that's the third thing that's uh that's awesome advice uh thank you for that but uh I um I just had a an idea here um that was probably fueled by some some sort of default mode Network thing um if uh for people listening if you enjoyed the show I um thanks for listening number one number two I think we've made a pretty convincing case that science ought to be looking at this whole sort of baned class of drugs as something that may be useful in certain circumstances for certain people and that demonizing them or putting them on an altar neither one of those extremes is particularly uh particularly useful or beneficial or even scientific and and that looking at them for what they are versus what we've painted them to me might be helpful so so I'm I'm a fan of what Maps is doing and I'm going to come up with a little Challenge and I know that about oh 50,000 people have listened to each of these episodes and it keeps growing every every month so maybe it's 60,000 people wow so if you like this episode uh I'll do a little challenge I'm really looking to help people see the bulletproof diet book which is the the work I just did that's just out on the New York Times list and I'm looking to show my publisher that my audience cares about this so if over the course of of this week if we sell 2500 copies of the bulletproof diet book I will donate all of the profits that I receive from those not the total cost of the sales directly to Maps so this isn't about me making money this is about me supporting something that's important and is about you getting a book that you can just give to someone you like you could also just give the money straight to maps maps.org and I'm to totally down with that but if you wanted the book anyway like come on check it out bulletproof you know how to order books uh and I will track the sales with my Publishers and I'm serious every nickel that my Publishers pay me for those those sales will go uh will go straight to Maps so uh support the bulletproof D book and support Maps or just support Maps this is just good work and these are tools like neuro feedback like all these other things there are Birthright and when people mess with that whatever their name is it's not cool and now well we can fix that beautiful Dave thank you so much you got it so have an awesome evening thanks so much for staying up late there in Boston where it's dark and cold as opposed to here in Canada where it's also dark and cold and have a have a great day thanks a lot for your work thank you so much Dave this has been a privilege and a pleasure to speak with you [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: nZJUr1C5ye4 (https://youtu.be/nZJUr1C5ye4) ===

why is it so hard for most of us to take a peek behind the curtain of existence and what is the role in psychedelics broadly in their ability to assist on that Journey Well you certainly have a terrific question I'll say one of the reasons why I think it's so hard for us to take a peek behind that curtain of existence is that we don't exist in the sense that you know our individual life our individual trajectory from birth to death or individual ego when you try to connect up with the sort of universal uh patterns of everything's in motion of everything's uh growing and being born and dying that that every there's nothing that's stable the Sun is going to die all of this that when we get the sense of this um repeating pattern this life death repeating death rebirth cycle you could even say um it's for many of us it's a realization at least for me it was that our individual self is temporary in the sense that there may be some Echoes through some kind of holographic record or whatever of everything that we've done there may be this Cosmic Consciousness uh Collective unconscious all of this and everything that's ever happened recorded in such a thing like that so that in that way we might um you know continue to exist in that sense I think that for many of us this sense of our own uh incredible irrelevance in some ways the smallness of our individual lives compared to the enormity of the universe and at the same time the critical value of each of our individual lives and what we can do to make the world a better place um I think there's another part this idea that's so scary is that um the dissolution of our ego of our sense of self as we merge into this sort of you could say peeking behind the curtain that it's quite well known that in psychedelic States when people are approaching this ego disillusion ego death experience that it's interpreted as physical death that we're so attached to our ego into our sense of who we are in this body from this birth to death process that when that is being dissolved that which certain psychedelics do in different ways than others but they all tend to do that that that dissolving of our normal orientation is often interpreted as physical death and Stan Groff who's you know now um 92 years old and is sort of the world's leading LSD researcher and theoretician he talked about this in the 50s when he was starting in the Czech Republic or Czechoslovakia at the time in Prague to learn about becoming a psychiatrist and to learn about psychedelics the way that they did the work is that they had to sit for a bunch of patients doing LSD before they had their own LSD experience and they considered their own LSD experience to be critical to their training as a psychiatrist so Stan had seen multiple people come up to this point of this ego dissolution and feeling that they were physically dying and he would encourage them to go through you're not really physically dying you know this is just let go and be open and Trust be open let go and then they would have some you know important experiences so when it came time for him to take LSD what he described was that he reached the same point and he convinced himself for a period of time that unlike everybody else he actually was dying because he had this uh illness when he was young and he said it changed his body chemistry and that it was kind of like analogy or some kind of situation and that now um unlike everybody else he actually was dying so I think that's part of the reason why it's difficult for people to sort of peek behind the veil of existence um on the other hand in a way it can be profoundly simplifying and of one's life in that you can see that this enormous historical sweep billions of years that this enormous universe that we're intrinsically inherently part of it we're not isolated from it a lot of times the ego also makes us isolated from the rest of the world and so while it can be really terrifying and and frightening and people think they're dying to see beyond this Veil that it also can be incredibly inspiring and give people this sense of connection so that people can reduce their fear of death and become less depressed all sorts of things so it's an important um Endeavor to try to um explore those areas of Consciousness but it's it's not without its risks I want to pull on this thread of death for a moment just for you personally you know we're here to talk about psychedelics but also I'm just curious because you mentioned it and we'll also be chatting about your story as well too because you are the man behind this movement one of the men that's behind this movement how much of your view of death and your own personal beliefs was or wasn't shaped by your experiences with psychedelics I had a pretty early encounter with death um you know well before I knew anything about psychedelics um so I kind of was aware of the reality of death um that can take people who are close to me that I love and and can take them pretty quickly also um I was very much um you know fundamentally changed in my political attitudes and and my approach to life in terms of my um wanting to do about the Vietnam War so you know I was um in one of the last years of the lottery I became a draft resistor planning to serve my country by going to jail um to demonstrate my opposite opposition to it but that got me thinking a lot about death as well um but I would say that the experience of psychedelics is what really did deepen my understanding of death to the point where I've come to this view that we need to be grateful for death there's a really interesting prayer in In Yom Kippur the so that I'm Jewish and the the you know day of atonement the most holy day in the Jewish calendar is Yom Kippur and you fast and and go to Temple I I prefer to smoke pot and go to Temple one time I took MDMA and spent the day in Temple on Yom Kippur with Zalman shakter the rabbi but it was incredible very good for atonement and forgiveness but there's a prayer that is repeated every year and part of the prayer is if you could banish death would you you know would you make it so that there's no new babies born that there's no new ideas that the people that are alive today are the only people that are ever going to be alive um and it goes on and on in that vein and it it reminds me of um a statement that Max Planck one of the you know brilliant scientists uh the plank constant and all one of the things that he said was that um science precedes funeral by funeral you know that even though you think scientists are always about contradicting or challenging their own hypotheses and trying to you know see if they're true and and they're constantly evolving their uh views based on evidence what Max Planck said was that you know even scientists get stuck in their ways and science precedes funeral by funeral so that idea other experiences this prayer on Yom Kippur it's made me come to this point that um we need to be grateful for death and the death is what makes life precious and if we would live forever then the moment is no different this moment than next moment because we'll live forever why do something now and we can do it later it doesn't really matter so I've come to embrace death as a Ally as part of something that um really is what confers meaning on the preciousness of the the small amount of time in the history of the universe that each of us individual is alive and I'd say that has come to me a lot through my psychedelic experiences um and I think also what's come to me through my psychedelic experiences is this just the magnitude of the enormity of the universe and of all that's happening and how um you know energy is not created or destroyed matter it just changes forms in different ways that this um this welcoming of death has made it so that um yeah I don't really fear death even though as I said I don't believe that there's going to be a soul of me that's going to persist and pop up in somebody else or something um but I think the way that psychedelics have done this is to really help me comprehend kind of the the enormity of of the universe and the sense that everything's in motion everything is dying the sun is dying right now um you know we think of the Sun as such a constant it's going to take forever you know enormous amounts of time before The Sun Burns Out but it is in the process of dying it's well past being born and it's giving away energy of which it has limited amount um and yet with the transitory nature of things there's still meaning and purpose and love and connection so it's not that I think that's where psychedelics have also been really helpful to me is that there can be the reality of death but it doesn't negate the value of the moment or or in some ways the Eternal nature of a kind act or anything that we do in this kind of sense that we're contributing to this Collective unconscious to the extent there is such a thing um and so I think this idea of being open to change being open to have one's conception challenged and broadened you know that that's in a way psychedelic therapy or any kind of therapy you're always dying to your old self and you're becoming kind of a new understanding a new self and if you've stopped That Dying process you solidify you ossify you increasingly become irrelevant so I feel grateful for psychedelics that have made me grateful for death um you know many people who have had psychedelic experiences and we've had Dr Roland Griffiths on the podcast you know a couple years ago he's talked about this through his National surveys as well too they have similar experiences you know this earlier this year I had a guided psilocybin experience in Maui and my heart goes out to everybody right now who's suffering from the terrible fires that are terrible fires that happened the 100 or so apply more people who passed away so my heart goes out to that Community right now we'll put some links in the show notes for different organizations that are doing some great work that are there but it was in Hawaii I was very lucky enough that my mom my dad wanted to come and it was a group experience my wife was there my brother-in-law in addition to the gratitude that you mentioned earlier in this respect that was there for the enormity of existence and also the respect that was there for death many of us had the experience that we felt that some entity maybe our ancestors it was different for everybody I'll talk about my instance I felt that I was hearing directly from my ancestors I felt that I was directly hearing the voices of some being that wasn't me I'm sure you've heard about this before you've been in this field for such a long time in the early days and you know so much of the history of the Psychedelic movement so much of these things were being written off as hallucinogens or this thing or that thing that's going on inside of the brain Inside the Mind what is your opinion of these voices and this guidance and this wisdom where is it coming from that people hear that they often attribute to other entities and beings yeah well you got some great questions um so let me start though by talking about hallucinogen so that's a word that's a negative word it's a hallucination that's not real and so whenever you read a paper a scientific paper these days about psychedelics any kind of Psy dogs if it uses the word hallucinogen in the title you know that it's been funded by the national and Son drug abuse so that it's a it's a negative word um psychedelic is a neutral word uh you know mind manifesting antheogen is a loaded word in the positive it's also a propaganda you know the the God within um so I just want to start by saying that um you know hallucinogen is um a word that I tend to avoid which is why I brought it up because I knew that context of it was written off as these experiences were hallucinogenic and people were using it in a negative context to criticize the work that was being done out there in the space between um me and the computer you know it looks to me like it's empty space but you can pull down the entire internet is actually flowing through this space you know in the air somehow or other so there's an incredible density of information um in in any moment passing through in certain ways okay how that happens is miraculous I think that there is some kind of record of and Stan Groff talked about it again as a whole graphic uh sort of memory system and as the farther you get away from the original event you know you have a little bit less detail but that so my sense is these voices um are coming from inside us um I don't I'm very cautious about people that say they're channeling you know dead people or that there are somehow or other but I think that you can have a very convincing um encounter with people that are no longer alive that can be you know your ancestors as you say that can be sending you messages and there may be some things coded in our genetics maybe there's even certain memories that are you know we know epigenetic transmission of trauma and other things through what turns genes on and off um my my think is that one of the things that's very dangerous is for people to hear a quote voice and to say oh this voice is uh true this voice is 100 accurate this voice is the voice of God this is this is quote the truth so I think we always see these things through a filter through our own psychic filters and so we're never really in direct contact with unvarnished truth but I think that sometimes people want to give authority to that they don't want to live in the uncertainty and so they'll say I heard this voice and this voice is 100 right and that that's what I need to do um I think that when people talk about reincarnation experiences um I think that you can have information that you bring back about a life that happened before yours that doesn't necessarily mean that it was your life I think through this kind of holographic recording of information that if there's some emotional resonance between this prior life and yours that you can tune into this prior life you can get accurate information again you can't assume that it's always accurate or or that it's it's not a hundred percent accurate but you can get information I think um and so I think that's that's where I would say some of the voices come from well you know we know that people are schizophrenic who hear voices um are those voices really there so you know hearing voices we just tend to associate with being mentally ill in different ways he had in psychedelics it's like a badge of honor oh I heard this uh Prophet said this thing or that thing and I heard that voice and the voice told me there's somebody that I know that um said that he heard this voice that he has to support uh uh the presidential candidacy of uh or Robert Kennedy sure I said I don't know that you got that voice quite right maybe maybe you need to ask that voice some questions um I think this idea of our higher wisdom a lot of times okay so we we definitely know that our body knows how to heal itself below our level of conscious awareness we have a fundamental theory about the inner healer that psychologically what emerges in a psychedelic experience has some sort of inner logic um I think that there is this inner wisdom that that can come to us in the form of a voice from somebody answers telling us something so that I think you can have information that may be valuable and it may even be accurate information but it doesn't mean that the voice is really you know the source of this information is really this discrete voice like that um I have had one experience I'm kind of through curious what you've had that cause causes me to tend to believe in telepathy um I'll just share that before you hear about it please story and then then you can tell me so it's uh but but the uh before I tell the story I'll just say that makes me think that there's other ways that we get information in our five senses and so some of that could be turned into oh this is a voice or so this particular story is uh now I'm about to uh turn 70 in a couple months so this is the one and only time in my entire life where I really felt like there might be something like telepathy and so you could say that this is a massive coincidence and that you know doesn't happen very often but but the story was that this is now um early in 1985 and I'm at a party with a bunch of friends and we're doing MDMA and MDMA is legal at the time and I was uh in a place where I was lonely I had no relationships at the time you know I'd had a bunch of relationships in the past but at this moment um I was about almost 32 and I was not in a relationship at all and actually I was staying with friends that were a married couple so you know this sense of a relationship there so at this party I went off to myself for a while about 3 A.M something like that I just sat there and I started thinking about all the different relationships that I'd been in in the past and I bring up this one woman or this other woman and it felt like I was updating the relationship like it wasn't I was just calling a memory but I was sort of calling a memory but then everything I knew since that relationship had ended was now in process as I was evaluating that red relationship and thinking about how it ended and where we were and so it felt like these relationships were really alive and I did that through several three or four of the most important relationships that I'd had in my life and then I had this funny feeling of a woman's body inside my body it felt not like I was remembering something you know I know from jungian psychology you talked about the anima and the Animus you know or female side or our male side and but it didn't feel like this is like the female side of me it actually felt like there was this foreign woman you know somehow this outside person inside me that I had this sense of this woman inside me as I was thinking of these various women that I'd been in relationships but it didn't come with a name or anything it just was like this funny kind of feeling um and then it went away after a bit I thought about one or two more women and then went to go to the hotel and when I get to Hotel there's this message from a person named Chris with a phone number and I'm like who is this Chris I don't know is this a man is this a woman what's his number I have no idea um but it was like at this point around five or six in the morning so I thought I'm just gonna go to sleep when I wake up I'll call so I call and turns out that I reached this person Chris and it was a woman and she said that we had been lovers um over a year before and she had left town we sort of had a brief uh romance and she'd left town and we hadn't had any contact in over a year and she said that pretty much we figured it out at the exact same time that I was having this woman's body sense in my own body she had a dream and the dream was of me and it was so strong that the dream woke her up in the middle of the night and she realized she had to call me and she called my house in Florida and they were surprised of course to be woken up in the middle of the night and they told her that I was in New York and they gave her the phone number of the hotel so we're like mystified and she's like an hour away from where I am and so we decided to um get together naturally decide to do MDMA together and so we did MDMA together and during this she explained that she was going through a crisis in her life and that she was starting to get dependent on opiates and that she was very very worried about that but more importantly she was falling in love with her boyfriend's best friend and falling out of love with her boyfriend wow and that was a triangle so yeah so I think what was happening is that I was in a an MDMA state in a deep state of of loneliness but that somehow open to these relationships she was in a crisis point in her life and maybe there was some kind of signal sent or maybe it was just an incredible coincidence right but that gets to your question of where do the voices come from so I think that there is this way that we can pick up information and and Beyond the five senses and I think that may be connected to the voices but I I do think and I would caution everybody to to say that um you know you really need to um be careful about giving over your own analytical power to the voices like okay this voice is true I don't need to analyze it I just need to do it uh I think that's really really dangerous now what about um Terence McKenna talks a lot about uh machine elves you know under the influence of ayahuasca I've never seen them no a lot of people have never seen them so I think that was not familiar familiar with that could you explain what what that is oh yeah the these self-replicating machine elves that are kind of these little curious figures that you encounter under Ayahuasca and they tell you things you know um so Terence used to talk about that a lot but I think that was kind of um an idiosyncratic interpretation of the information coming in so um but I do think that my entire sort of motivation in my life has been messages in a sense from my relatives from my ancestors um not so much in like um well basically Jews that died in the Holocaust and you know who are dehumanized and who were considered to be other and and then the critical dream of my whole life was in my 20s a few years after I decided to focus my life on psychedelics and it was of a holocaust Survivor he was in his deathbed and just he and I were in this all white room and he was telling me that he was miraculously saved for some reason but he didn't know what that reason was and he said let me show you what happened and then we go back and it's the World War II and it's the outside of town and thousands of Jews are lined up in front of this big Mass grave to be machine gunned and killed by the Nazis and that's what happens and they all get pushed into this grave but it turned out he was wounded but not killed and so I'm I'm watching in in this dream now I'm with him for three days Barry so it's got a little bit of a Jesus story too he gets resurrected on the third day climbs up through the bodies nobody's there runs to the woods and lives with the partisans and as you know survives through World War II all right so then he said that's how I was miraculously saved um and I knew I would say for a purpose but I didn't know what the purpose was so then we're back in the room and he says but now I do know what the purpose is I'm like terrific what's the purpose he said well it's to tell you to study psychedelics and that you know we we need what's the antidote to genocide is it having us all realize we're all part of the same family and we're all fundamentally uh similar and we have more in common than we have apart and so um in my mind I said yes I've agreed to do that already I've already decided that so I can say yes to this and you can die in peace and then he died in front of my eyes in the dream all right so that was kind of like a voice I would say a collective voice of my ancestors but I heard it more as like a historical it's my understanding what happened in the world so I don't think this guy was necessarily a relative of mine you could interpret that as some sort of a voice but I interpret it as just somehow I've been working on how do you respond to the Holocaust and this is you know where that came from um there are people that talk about channeling different voices um you know different spirits and things like that and um you know I no matter where they come from we hear them through our own filter and therefore we have to be critical in how we interpret the advice or whatever the meaning or the suggestions are from these voices but also I think we need to acknowledge the incredible mystery of this universe so I'm not saying I couldn't be I'm just saying you know I don't really know but I I do think that um it's a super big danger to give your power over to Inner voices and not do your own critical analysis yeah in their highest regard these can be Reflections or an archetype to your own intuition that might be easier for you to internalize that comes through a story like this gentleman who is there for you I think that's really right yeah yeah well I want to come to MDMA now that we've had a chance to ask some of my burning questions to you on these topics around voices entities and peeling the veil and the curtain behind to kind of get a little bit of a glimpse even if that glimpses through your own filter um sorry we're gonna say something well I was just going to say that Stan Groff I've talked about a bunch of times but he's talked about the future of Psychiatry as being people taking MDMA but then like an hour later using the five Meo DMT vape pens and the the reason that I'm saying that is this idea of the five Meo is like the fastest to the behind the veil you know it's it's the most powerful psychedelic we're aware of it just it completely dismantles your sense of self but but when you smoke it it's instantaneous and you just like into this other kind of spiritual place but when you use the vape pens of different potencies and you start with MDMA which reduces the fear of death or the fear of anything you know that that you can have this base of acceptance with this ego dissolution from the 5meo that he thinks is going to be incredibly instructive I've tried the five Meo vape pens I haven't tried it with MDMA first but I have talked to people that have done it I've seen people that have done it I've been there when people have done it in that way and it's just astonishing so it's it's that um it's another way for people to really ask some of those questions about what's behind the veil and and who are these voices and and how do we deal with them so I just wanted to add that no thank you for that thank you for that let's set the groundwork a little bit with MDMA before we get to modern history and a lot of your work on it tell us a little bit about some of the history that's there and I mean entire documentaries could be made and some are made about this but give us a little bit of the brief history of this in the context of the range of psychedelics that are out there MDMA is one of the man-made psychedelics that are there and often people have a lot of misconceptions and myths around it I think the history can be helpful yes yes well Drew also you know these initiatives like the Portland the Oregon psilocybin initiative um the Colorado natural plant initiative what may be on the Massachusetts ballot in 2024 again about natural plants plant psychedelics people have this romantic idea if it's from a plant that's good and if it's synthetic it's bad so unfortunately MDMA not unfortunately but actually MDMA is synthetic or semi-synthetic you never it's not there in nature by itself at least we've not found it by itself and so it's not being included in these different drug policy reform initiatives around psychedelics because people might not vote for it so MDMA was invented in 1912 by Merck and Merc pharmaceutical in Germany they were looking um blood thinners they were not um looking for MDMA they were looking for another drug and they had a new synthetic pathway and they patented everything along the way MDMA being one of them and since that wasn't what they were really looking for they didn't do anything with it then Along Comes World War one and that threw them off track but it wasn't until 15 years later until 1927 that Merck studied MDMA and some animals they thought maybe we should check and see if there's anything interesting um they weren't really good at speaking to these animals and they concluded that MDMA had no value that there was nothing there and they abandoned it um the next we know about MDMA is in the 50s the U.S army chemical warfare service was testing eight drugs again it seems like they're only testing them in animals but these were a series of drugs called finethylamines in the class of phenethylamines and on one end was masculine from peyote or from San Pedro on the other hand was methamphetamine and in the middle MDMA and these are all phenethylamines and so this as far as we can tell as I said didn't turn into human experimentation they didn't really come up with great value here so MDMA was sort of abandoned again but MDMA to understand it it has the alerting properties of methamphetamine MDMA is methylene dioxide method three four methylene dioxane methamphetamine so methamphetamine is a stimulant it uh keeps you awake it focuses you gets you active on things doing things um but it doesn't promote Stillness it doesn't promote um the same kind of open-hearted fear reduction the way that MDMA does on the other hand is masculine masculine is a classic psychedelic um it has more of this appearing behind the veil the ego dissolution the um the visuals more the uh flowed into the conscious from the unconscious and so MDMA is has the alerting properties of methamphetamine you can stay up all night and dance you don't need to eat and drink if you want to but it it has that ability for helping people sit still that methamphetamine doesn't and it's like mescaline but it it doesn't have the visuals and it but it does have this flow into awareness and have the warmth masculine is pretty warm body oriented a little bit more open-heartedness and the mdma's got more of that all right the next we know is 1959 Merck looks at animals again with MDMA and again they decide there's no value and they completely abandon it in the 70s there was a drug called MDA methylene dioxyamphetamine that was a lot of people liked it in the 60s and 70s I had a chance to take it in the 70s and say I really really liked it it's kind of like an LSD MDMA combination a little bit more psychedelic than MDMA all right and and some people MDA called it the miracle drug of America um and yet what happened was uh 1970 is the controlled substance the backlash against the psychedelics and so chemists were motivated to Tinker with molecules because at the time specific molecules were made illegal but if you vary the molecule then all of a sudden it wasn't illegal so there was all this tinkering with the MDA molecule and other things and and sort of MDA MDMA kind of got rediscovered by in particular Sasha Shogun and Anne Shogun are credited as sort of The Godfather godparents of MDMA you know Sasha um was very interested in finding psychedelics that would teach him about structure activity relationships but also that would be useful for a psychotherapy so Sasha took it and took it they had a small group of people that they experimented with new drugs and they decided that MDMA had incredible potential so around 76 77 they gave it to a film named Leo zeff he's a clinical psychologist PhD he is who we call the secret chief he was the leader of the underground psychedelic therapy movement and he was getting ready to retire and Sasha said no try this MDMA don't retire yet he tried the MDMA he thought hey man this has got incredible potential and um he started uh teaching psychiatrists and psychotherapists how to work with MDMA that in the late 70s early 80s started leaking out of these therapy circles and some people decided that they had a great opportunity to make a lot of money and to share this drug that they thought was better than cocaine and other things that they had been dealing and MDMA then which was under the code name Adam as a therapy drug then became marketed as ecstasy and it was ecstasy that was being used in public settings that attracted the attention of the DEA Senator Lloyd Benson from Texas this was used a lot in Dallas at the star club and other places and so what happened was that MDMA was going to be criminalized this was during the 80s Nancy Reagan just say no escalation of the drug war so I learned about MDMA in 82 at Aslin um from olona Debbie Harlow and I was told it's it's named codenamed Adam and it's got incredible therapeutic potential but also uh it's starting to be sold as ecstasy and its fate is doomed um but the government knows about Ecstasy but they don't know about Adam as far as we knew and we knew that the government was coming against it so um I started a non-profit before maps in 84 to organize effort to protect the medical use of MDMA once the DEA was going to move to criminalize it and we introduced MDMA to monks to rabbis I talked about the rabbi that I saw when shakter that I took him to Maine Yom Kippur in his Temple um Brother David steindle Rost Vanya Palmers all sorts of people from Zen meditation Roman Catholicism Judaism different religious leaders and psychiatrists in our medical school all of this and so in the summer of 84 D.A moved to criminalize MDMA we within 30 days comment period I went to DEA headquarters and handed in some documents and said we're going to ask for a hearing we had great legal representation we managed to get a hearing and we actually won the hearing the judge said MDMA should be schedule three but in 85 before the hearing is even over DEA freaked out we were winning in the courts winning in the court of public at the end the emergency scheduled MDMA while the hearings are still going on a year later we win the hearing and the DEA ignores the recommendation of the judge we and kept it in schedule one so we sued a couple times in the appeal Sports and won twice and but the peel squirts just tell the agencies to rethink stuff they said what you did is wrong but come up with something new they don't tell them what to do unless it gets really extreme so by the third time of this happening the DEA lawyers figured out how to keep MDMA and cannabis illegal that there was no currently accepted medical use I can see that coming and so what I realized is that I needed to um start a new nonprofit maps in 86 April 8th 86 that would be a second pharmaceutical company the only way to bring it back now is not through suing the DEA not through public education that had to be through science the resistance was so great so this history of MDMA since then has been 37 years of clinical research the first [Music] um six years everything was rejected we finally got permission for a safety study in 92. um and all along there's going on MDMA is neurotoxic one dose is going to hurt your brain and have major functional consequences we had to deal with that completely bogus of course but find funded by the same people that use the word hallucinogen and um through the 90s we did this phase one safety study then from 2000 to 2016 we did a series of phase two uh exploratory pilot studies trying to figure out how to design what's called phase three which is the final stage of research and phase three um we got approval in uh just November 29th 2016. we negotiate with the FDA about phase three throughout 2017 2018 we followed started our first phase three study 2021 we published it May 10th in nature medicine the results were phenomenal nature medicine said it was the top one of the top 10 scientific breakthroughs of the world for 2021 our second phase three study has been accepted for publication and we don't know exactly when it's going to be published but it's going to be open access we hope a month and a half from now something like that um and we anticipate um submitting a whole package to the FDA before the end of this year and by the middle of next year we hope to have FDA approval meanwhile I'll just say that ecstasy or MDMA has become one of the world's most popular illegal recreational drugs so part of the history of MDMA has to acknowledge and address the fact that it is really we have enormous experience with the risks of MDMA and the riskiest circumstances people taking it just for parties and impure drugs mixing with alcohol all sorts of other things so there's over 5 000 papers in uh if you go to Medline the list of published scientific papers peer-reviewed from journals going back a long time there's over 5 000 papers on MDMA or ecstasy so there's an enormous amount known about this which is why I believe that we've been able to do phase three studies the first one with 90 people the second one with 104. and that that will be sufficient for us to demonstrate to the FDA uh the data that we have about safety and efficacy so I think the way to understand MDMA is it began as a pharmaceutical drug was uh completely um overlooked even though they tried then it became um a secret therapy drug then it escaped from that became a party drug and now all these years later we're trying to make it back into a therapy drug and we're also trying to legalize it for what I prefer to call celebratory experiences not just recreational for personal growth for spirituality you know maybe I should mention this also but the most mystical experience of my whole life I've done LSD over a hundred times I've done Ayahuasca I've done I've done a lot of drugs but surprisingly and I'm grateful for all of them but surprisingly the most mystical experience of my whole life was on MDMA tell us a little about that what did you go through that you would list it as one of the most mystical and then also based on the literature after you talk about your story and why it was so mystical what's the potential of MDMA in a therapeutic contest how does it help and support the body to heal what are we healing from well what we're healing from is um well particularly in our our work with trauma you know undigested trauma trauma that is never properly processed that always seems like it's about to happen or is happening it's never really located in the past it colors the present and so your healing you could say from a disorder of memory that this experience that was so vivid and maybe when it was happening you couldn't pay attention to the emotions you had to pay attention to survival but over time it becomes something in your nightmares it becomes something that um you're easily triggered to see that that it's intrusive you're hyper Vigilant you're depressed all these um things that this kind of trauma has not been fully processed and fully placed in long-term memory in the hippocampus that it's really um sort of stuck you could say in the amygdala which is where we process fear and so what's happening in this what we're healing from is unprocessed trauma for people that are struggling with addiction a lot of times they're healing from unprossed they're struggling with unprocessed trauma but they're also struggling with a sense of disconnection of um isolation of not connected to this behind the veil there's nothing behind the veil you know there's a nihilism there's meaninglessness people are feel disconnected so a lot of times what happens with people with psychedelics is that they heal from this sense of being an isolated individual and they can see that they're part of something bigger you know MDMA enhances activity in the prefrontal cortex PTSD decreases activity in the prefrontal cortex that's where we think logically so you hear a sound you immediately leap to it it's a gun or or whatever scared you before there's not a lot of enough time to sort it out no that was just somebody dropped a pot or something um MDMA reduces activity in the amygdala PTSD increases the activity in the middle of so you're always fear about all these different memories and then MDMA increases activity connectivity between the amygdal and hippocampus so you can sort of Take These Memories once you process them and put them into long-term storage and then the next time you remember it it's not like it's about to happen it's something that you've made your peace with it and it's in the past and you've survived so we could go on more of that MDMA releases oxytocin hormones of love and connection nursing mothers that that this builds a self-love self-connection connection to others uh it's remarkable but so the the MDMA experience that I had that was my most mystical experience of my life was uh again this was in 1985 and I was starting to figure out about becoming more public and challenging the DEA and was this going to be um a problem for me and would I become more vulnerable more um surveilled by the police all this instead of hiding in the underground you know coming after him would that be dangerous for me and I had spent a lot of time with Brother David steindle Ross who was this Roman Catholic monk um who is is just tremendous he returned this book gratitude is the heart of Prayer which is is really beautiful and he was in a monastery near esselen and Stan brought him into our first month-long Workshop as one of the speakers and um over time I I got to know him and I I gave him his first MDMA and he used it in the monastery to help him meditate and he was like half a dose he could get a quieter mind he could go deeper he could have the emotional involvement and then we he would reach these new States but then he could practice without the drug later to get back to these states that he had been able to access through MDMA so he described MDMA he said the monks spend their whole life trying to reach the enlightened attitude that you can get from MDMA um Rabbi zamichakar said that MDMA is like the Sabbath you know he he compared it in that way so I decided okay I'm starting to get ready to be suing the DEA being more visible and I decided that I would take MDMA by myself um at night right by the Pacific Ocean right at eslin and I would try to think about the DEA about you know how I might maneuver and then I would try to think about Brother David and I was like why would somebody want to celibate life it just doesn't you know why would he want to do that um and so I just just those were my main main topics sort of that I prepared to think about all right so I did this at the edge of the um continent so this is the so the mountains come down right down to the uh the ocean and there was a little bit of a space where the high tide wouldn't come up so as little little tiny protective space but the mountains behind me the ocean is in front of me the Roaring ocean the skies are magnificent there's not a lot of light pollution there massive beautiful Milky Way and all that so I'm um initially part of this experience I'm looking at a tree and I'm kind of Imagining the tree being the DEA and the DEA looking at me so I'm trying to you know negotiate how do I become more visible but try to stay safe and I had this important Insight that was really helpful to me which was that the DEA is trained to look under the rock they're trained to look at what people are hiding from them so I felt that if I become more visible they may also think I'm hiding things from them which of course I was but they'll be mostly engaged by my lawsuit and all the things that I'm doing that way and that will give me a certain amount of safety because if they go after somebody for political reasons that's going to look bad for them all right so so that was pretty good and then I'm thinking okay I've got my way forward um and then I was just lying there and just listening to the ocean and I just had this sense of myself dissolving into space that this you know just the Roar of the ocean the enormity of the stars and I was just this tiny little person and the universe was so fast and I felt like I was just dissolving into space that um and and so you could say that's sort of like a mystical experience but what happened then is um after a while I realized that um I was still there I was like if I how is it that I'm even still here the world the Earth is revolving thousands of miles you know every minute or whatever it is you know as the Earth revolves you know how fast is it there I don't actually thousands of miles but very fast though everything's in motion and I felt like I haven't flung off to the universe something is keeping me here and I was like well what is it I felt it's it's gravity and then I felt that I was gravity was this force of love and then I felt this image that I was in the arms of a lover but it was gravity it was and I felt like I was cradled in the arms of gravity and that gravity was love and that gravity was what kept things together and it was intrinsically woven into the universe and this whole sense that I was both an individual so this is where I think the MDMA does I was both an individual in this spot but I was also encased in this universe of love and that gravity was this key force and that I was part of this both individual and part of this bigger thing and I felt that that was really the most mystical experience and then I realized aha this is why somebody might want to sell but life because if you can connect to Universal love like this you know that that then that's tremendous and that you don't necessarily connect with an individual but you see it's it's it's woven into the universe so I felt that was great I said this is phenomenal not only have I figured out why somebody might want to be a monk but now I don't have to be a monk because I figured it out I don't need to be celibate and that that has been I've never been as lonely since then all right so 30 years after that 30 years after that in 2015 I was at a conference um run by USANA in Madison Wisconsin your son is a big non-profit supporting uh psychedelic research and Brother David was there and I I sat next to him I've been you know Loosely kept in touch over the years and so I sat with him at dinner and and I said Brother David I just have some questions to ask you I said you know 30 years before I had the most mystical experience of my whole life and it involved you and I was thinking about you and I'd like to tell you what what it is and just get your impression your feedback and what he did was he um he heard my story and then he was quiet for a while and he looked at me and he said I think of gravity every day hmm yeah so that's that's one of the reasons I love MDMA so much is that you can have these kind of really remarkable experiences [Music] um who should be thinking about potentially having an experience with MDMA well first off I think therapists who are going to be administering MDMA to their patients should have the option of Legally obtaining access to it I mean that's a big thing therapists who are psychedelic therapists will be more effective if they've done the drug themselves and we can get into a whole discussion about why psychiatrists don't give themselves electroconvulsive therapy or don't take antipsychotics but that's because those are the things that are the uh treatment in and of itself in this case psychedelic assisted therapy it's a lot depending on the relationship between the person and the therapist and it makes it a lot more sense for the therapist to have their own experiences um who should there's nobody that I would say should everybody has to make up their own mind so I'm not going to say you all should do this what I'm going to say is that MDMA has incredible therapeutic potential when combined with therapy people at Raves and others that do it illegally a lot of times they talk about therapeutic benefits that they've got so I'd say one of the best uses of MDMA is for PTSD one of the other best uses is in couples therapy it's really remarkable about how much of a better listener you can be about how you can hear things that are complicated you can express yourself in a more eloquent way in a less defensive way people that are suicidal often I think have lost hope um we've got a lot of stories about people who have gained Hope from their very first MDMA experience and just when they're feeling MDMA they're saying okay I'm not gonna have to kill myself um I think monks and rabbis and all these people that want to meditate I think would be really good to try MDMA as a tool for meditation there's Eating Disorders there's there's all sorts of things that people but but I would also say that we've got a project Israelis and Palestinians are doing Ayahuasca and MDMA together small groups of so this is about conflict resolution that the same way similar to couples near me so I think MDMA can have a major role to play in the political healing of political partisanship and divides um I also think um traumatized children you know we're going to have to study dramatized children if the FDA gives us permission to for prescription use in adults we have to study traumatized children um I think that there's a lot of people that are um there was a study by Ben Sessa that was done in England with people with alcohol use disorder and the MDMA was the treatment and it turned out a lot of people with alcohol use disorder were running away from trauma that they hadn't really processed you helped process the trauma then they don't need to escape with alcohol so I think for a lot of people with um dependence on different substances or dependence on anything that MDMA can be really helpful there's been some amazing Stories recently about MDMA with people who are paralyzed and we know about neuroplasticity that people have regained certain functions under the influence of MDMA it's something that we need to study a lot more so I think that people that want to learn about love would do great to take MDMA people in rights of palette passage I look at my bar mitzvah as one of the most important disappointments of my whole life you know I really thought it was going to turn me into a man that was the story I was going and nothing happened so I think we have a lot of these Rites of Passage that don't really connect with people where they're really at and I think MDMA psilocyb and other psychedelics Ayahuasca IBM can be great for rights of Passage I think there was a recent story that I don't know if you've seen but it was about a white nationalist who volunteered for a project at the University of Chicago looking at the effect of MDMA on the perception of touch so this guy a white nationalist volunteers for this study and it's not a therapy study but under the influence of MDMA he starts rethinking why is he so prejudiced all of this and that that's not really a healthy way to be and then he he's written this article that's that's gotten pretty widespread distribution about how MDMA helped him overcome being a white supremacist so to the extent that I would get to should I would think all bigots and everybody that's Prejudiced and stuff should should probably do MDMA um to get more in touch with themselves and and see about the way they project on others Carl Young had a beautiful statement he said the most important um political therapeutic and spiritual thing we can do is to withdraw the projection of our shadow onto others the shadow is our disowned parts that we don't accept that are flawed and we present them on others so if you want a good example of this sort of Shadow projection work look at everything or anything that President Trump says it's always you know the best way you can understand what he's doing is looking at what he's accusing other people of doing so how do you withdraw that projection of your Shadow onto others and you have to deal with it you have to accept it one of my DMT trips with Terence actually no Little Green Men or machine else but I realized that um I had an inner Hitler that if I'm part of everything everything's part of me then Hitler's part of me I can't just say he's out there and that that was really a shattering thing so but that's part of then withdrawing your projection onto others of your shadow um I would think that um for a lot of people in their late teens early 20s when they're trying to figure out what to do with their lives and how to direct their energies that's a great time for psychedelics and then in particular um it's a really do Vision questing um so I also think that sidewalks are great at the end of life I've worked with several people several days before they die when they died of cancer and under incredible pain on opiates for pain and barely there but MDMA synergizes with the opiates you get better pain control and it open heart and so anyways people up because they're sort of numb and tranquilized by all the opiates but the methamphetamine aspect of the MDMA is a stimulant overcomes the the depressive properties of the opiates so I think MDMA in a hospice setting is going to be one of the best uses coming up so all this is is um just to say that um that I wouldn't say that anybody should but I would say that a lot of people would benefit a lot from their own MDMA experiences and just to emphasize this point we strongly recommend that therapists who are going to give MDMA to patients have their own MDMA experience but we will never require it we should not force somebody to do a drug we shouldn't make it so it's only people that have done it we should be you know welcoming Skeptics and stuff we want to learn the method but don't want to use the drug but we should strongly recommend it and um several people have said oh let's give MDMA to Trump or let's give MDMA to uh DeSantis or some of these you know political leaders um I don't think it'll work I think that the reason it won't work and work meaning turn them into better people is that it's not just about the drunk you have to be willing to look at what comes up and if you're so into projections a narcissism you're not going to look you have these different feelings but I don't so particularly if it was slip to try you know I don't think it would do them any good so it should only be people voluntarily choosing to take it but I would imagine that over time 170 May becomes a medicine which we think as I said will happen in 2024 middle of it I think by 2035 we should have legal access for all purposes um you know the the thing about the MDMA through the FDA is that insurance coverage insurance companies will cover the treatments because you're treating a disease but if it's made legal nobody's going to cover it it's your own choice and so I would guess though by 2035 that MDMA will be both a generic medicine and also a legally accessed substance and I think it will be even more one of the most popular drugs in the world hmm well one note of commentary just with my own experience with psychedelics although I haven't done MDMA and I look forward to doing that one day in a therapeutic uh setting myself my wife I would love us to both have that experience even though there's so much love does she want to do it she does she does yeah we're working on getting pregnant so we're leaving space for that right now well actually let me say that if it doesn't work right away there are people that have had a hard time conceiving and they do MDMA together and then they can conceive uh you know um you know I'm not making a claim here but I have heard multiple stories wait I've heard anecdotes we know that you know a lot of times people have a hard time conceiving and then they adopt a child and then they can conceive it's like the stress is down so actually my wife and I um she said it was more for me than for her but um we took MDMA together to get ready to have a child and I felt like um having a child for me was like standing on the edge of a swimming pool and you know it's a little bit cold and it'll probably be cold for like the first 10 seconds after you start swimming but you can spend like minutes and minutes and minutes before you dive in just to avoid that so that was what Parenthood was like I was like years and years like I'm not ready to dive into the pool and under the influence of MDMA I was able to say um okay I'm ready let's give it a try that's beautiful that's beautiful I love that and we did that a little bit with our psilocybin experience earlier in the year yeah as sort of entering into this place we've only been married for a couple years we just went down the path of saying okay we want to set the intention of you know starting a family this year but even in that psilocybin experience so much of what I walked away from is that you know I got listeners from all sides of the aisle that are here one thing that I genuinely do feel is that there's bigotry on every Spectrum anywhere you go in the world you're going to find bigotry you're going to find people that are not open to new ideas and want to demonize the other in any sort of religious group any background political Spectrum Etc and the people that are making me the most excited about this movement are individuals that sometimes you would seem they would be the least likely people to have interest in wanting to go down the pathway of having an experience with psychedelics and largely they've got been convinced to have at least some openness and put aside their judgments and learn more listen to podcasts listen to you on Joe Rogan listen to you on Dr Hyman's podcast these other places and some of your con colleagues and for a second C maybe the way that I've Been Told and the narrative that I've been told about a particular thing is not exactly the full truth or is completely misguided by individuals and I think that it's human nature just like you said you had that experience of seeing that the same energy inside of uh a dictator or somebody that is mass killing individuals like a Hitler we have to be aware that that same bigotry is inside of all of us from that same way whoever it is whoever that individual is regardless of politics or whatever we have that ability inside of all of us to become that if we are not present to or don't question those stories so what are psychedelics doing inside of the brain that they open up that ability to see that we ourselves can be part of the problem and there's narratives that maybe we've held on to for our entire lives about other people groups things places whoever that that can be peeled back and now that there's an openness or love so what's happening inside of the brain well okay first off let me make a point which is that to make a drug into a medicine you have to prove uh to the satisfaction of the FDA you have to demonstrate safety and efficacy and you have to do it in usually two large-scale double-blind placebo-controlled randomized controlled phase three studies you don't have to have any information about mechanism of action so you're you're asking how does it work in the brain so because Maps has been mostly funded by philanthropists we've had to have a very narrow path and to to work on what do we need to do to persuade the FDA and so because they don't require mechanism of action I figured if we show that it works other people will figure out how it works and we also know that the brain is you know one of the most complex things in the universe and how is it that is going to take a long time to figure out what actually goes on inside the brain also we know that people have used psychedelics for thousands of years without any understanding whatsoever of brain scans or neurochemistry or uh you know so people have learned how to refine the use of psychedelics in healing and spiritual and creative context over thousands of years without any information of physically how does it work in the brain we may not be sure exactly how kids are conceived but we know you have sex you make a baby yeah yeah so I think what we do know there's kind of controversy around this more and more but there is this General sense that the classic psychedelics which are like LSD psilocybin mescaline you know ayahuasca ibogaine that they operate in a slightly different way in the brain than MDMA does and that they tend to dissolve this sense of self uh there's people have called it the default mode Network so that you're flooded with information that's not sort of centered around your your ego there's also something called neuroplasticity which is really important which is about the ability to re-sculpt neural Pathways in the brain and what seems to be happening with psychedelics is they open up what are called critical periods we all know that when you're little you can learn languages easier than when you're an adult there's certain areas where you have to bond with people if you don't you're often left unable to bond certain things you know problems with your eyes if you don't see by a certain point sometimes you stabilize so there's these things that are called critical periods and what Google dollarland who is a neuroscientist at Hopkins has talked about about psychedelics opening up these new these new critical periods and then promoting a period of neuroplasticity where you can rewire with different kind of thoughts get wired in a different way so for example with MDMA and this will um there's what's called fear Extinction and memory reconsolidation so I think this neuroplasticity this memory reconsolidation is a big clue to what's happening so that you uh we used to think memory is like you take a book down from the Shelf from your brain a memory and you read it and you put the book back turns out that's not the way the memory is distributed throughout your brain so that you've got episodic memory you've got memories related to smell to different sites different things and then they're they're collected they're Consolidated and then you have a memory for this episode for this event right so what it turns out is that when you let's say take MDMA and you have a fearful event that you're remembering but you're not catalyzed into the sphere you're able to process it think about it um it you're sort of swapping out a memory of fear and panic for a memory of I can accept it I've survived it and it happened in the past so then when you reconsolidate this memory you you are you're putting it into storage in different places but you've changed it so this neuroplasticity you've now changed this uh the connection so when you call back this memory again now you've overwritten oh this is terrifying this I could die you you've overwritten it with oh that happened in the past I've processed it so this re-routing of neural circuits is a big part of what psychedelics do in the brain to help there to be long-term benefits from even a single experience and if it wasn't rewiring the brain then we'd have to really wonder how is it that you can have one psychedelic experience and I can talk about this experience I had in 1985 and it still makes me feel less lonely and you know this whole mystical experience with MDMA so I think that there's lots and lots more to learn I'm just giving you very superficial understanding from somebody who's not a neuroscientist but that there are ever more subtle probes into how do psychedelics work actually what a lot of people should realize is that the whole idea of neurotransmitters and the whole idea of discovery of Serotonin had a lot to do with LSD because it was in the in the 50s that this happened this idea of neurotransmitters but people were like how is it that you can take millions of a gram a hundred billionths of a gram of something and have this profound LSD psychedelic experience it must be that it's acting on other compounds that are of similar tiny scale in your brain that is somehow rather impacting how your brain processes information and so it was the early work of the LSD that led to people being curious to discovering serotonin so there and then the whole thing is cultural Amnesia after psychedelics promote um inspirational experiences for people who reduce their fear of death and then feel more connected and then are going after the Vietnam War or after you know uh working in the Civil Rights Movement the environmental movement things like that so how they work is kind of miraculous because you can Tinker with one molecule so there's um bromo LSD so LSD is you know what we just talked about it's um and it's been discovered to be really helpful for cluster headaches you know you take LSD when you're in the cycle it can help you break the cycle it delays the return of the cycle but you add one atom bromo bromine I think it's one atom I don't know if there's several but it's you add some minor stuff to this LSD bromwell LSD now all of a sudden it's not psychedelic it doesn't fit in the same receptor sites and you can take a gram of it it turns out it's better than LSD for cluster headaches because you can take so much of it and so we still don't know how it works for cluster headings so it's it's it's one of those questions that you could have [Music] um um you know one of the world's leading neuroscientists on your podcast uh two years from now and they would still say we're just scratching the surface of figuring out what these drugs do in the brain yeah and I think most importantly as you were mentioning we don't have to wait to understand everything to know the tremendous benefits and the potential of what's possible going back to that potential and uh your quote that you had shared one of my favorite quotes from Max blank oh oh you've already knew that quote you like that one yes yes I think uh I think in the world of functional medicine they use that quote quite often because they feel that they're on a similar similar battle to help people understand that the body is a group of interconnected organs and that everything does impact everything and so we have to be aware in health if we're really going to help people get to the root of chronic disease we have to understand how all these things interplay well going back to it and kind of putting a bow tie around this understanding and the difference the whole idea of science advances one funeral at a time you had mentioned that uh you know it was uh this December 16th the Journal of science designated Maps assistive therapy PTSD is one of its top 10 scientific benefits out of all the different things they had listed yeah breakthroughs of the world breakthrough science scientific breakthroughs including breakthroughs in physics and everything else that was a year 2021 and the sub heading underneath that press release that came from the maps organization said that this award comes 19 years after science published a later detracted article falsely claiming that MDMA caused the Doper genic neurotoxicity leading to Parkinson's disease along with an editorial comparing taking MDMA to playing Russian roulette I just thought that was fantastic that made it you know those with the of us with the long-term view that that science designation was so sweet um but but what I should explain is that the um Alan lashner was um the director of the national and zone drug abuse and he's the one that funded a lot of the MDMA neurotoxicity research that was done by Georgia cardi and Uno McCann and others and Al muschner was very successful in building the budget of Nida the Nationals on drug abuse over a billion dollars and he did that by pandering to Congress by scaring Congress and he's made some disastrously mistaken presentations to Congress um but he was rewarded you know this was during early 2000s and there was all this fear of MDMA and so he managed to build the budget through the 90s into the early um uh 2000s and then he left Knight and he became the president of the American Association for the advancement of Science and they published the journal science so he was in charge of the journal science um and then it was through the 90s it became increasingly difficult for them to make the case that MDMA was uh damaging to serotonin neurons that had all these theories and all this stuff but they just it didn't it got increasingly challenged and as time goes by all these people had done loads of MDMA still seem normal I don't know if I seem normal but I would say that you know hopefully I don't seem too brain damaged um but but it was becoming um pretty difficult for them to block research by claiming serotonergic neurotoxicity we had previously funded research with primates with MDMA with George icardi trying to look for the no effect level on serotonin and from that we learned that they didn't hurt dopamine all right so years later what happens is Georgia cardi and Nuna began at Hopkins do this study with primates now we'd also done Studies by the way before with spinal taps before there was brain cans I got two spinal taps to look at metabolites of neurotransmitters in my spinal fluid I got 30 other people to do that what we learned is no problems with dopamine some questions about serotonin but serotonin is linked to risky behavior taking MDMA is risky Behavior so um it it didn't seem like there was anything special for that so any case uh Georgia Cardinal again give a bunch of primates MDMA and they're looking for what's going to happen and they think oh my God don't mean it's being hurt and they ended up publishing this paper that claimed that a single oral dose of MDMA could cause a significant dopaminergic neurotoxicity that could lead to Parkinson's now first off they gave multiple sessions of MDMA most they they gave it wasn't a single oral dose but they never budget the animals died of overdoses and they never should have published it because all of the prior information suggested that MDMA didn't heard dopamine in primates and but they published it and it was like a dying glass gasp you know okay we can't block MDMA research for reasons of uh serotonergic neurotoxicity but now we've got this new thing dopaminergic neurotoxising so it just they didn't give MDMA to the animals orally in the same way that people take it we criticized a lot of it we said didn't make sense a year goes by and they defend and defend and defend the study and scientific article or journals and um and then finally they release a statement saying that they're going to sadly have to retract the paper because they mistakenly administered methamphetamine instead of mvma to these primates yeah and not only that but MDMA you know the therapeutic dose that we use in our studies the the sort of main one is 120 milligrams followed by 60 milligrams two hours later you know methamphetamine is a whole lot stronger than MDMA you don't give a 120 milligrams of methamphetamine to somebody all right so what they were doing though is they were giving the wrong drug methamphetamine to these primates but giving it in MDMA amounts and causing all this damage and they assumed that was from MDMA but it was really from methamphetamine and so they spent this year and they couldn't replicate their results and they couldn't replicate the results and finally they looked at some of the tissue samples from one of the animals that they had overdosed and killed and discovered that it was methamphetamine not MDMA in the brain so that was the high water mark 20 years ago high water mark of the fear of MDMA neurotoxicity and ever since then we've been able to start moving into patients and now the FDA is satisfied that the doses that we give in the amounts and the frequencies that we give are not an issue for neurotoxicity um what a journey and you know part of that also relates to there has been and people want to lump all drugs together in sort of one category and talk about them as a whole we need to separate them all out and talk about the therapeutic benefits of psychedelics Etc other things there's been so many narratives over the last 50 60 70 years around these topics that there's still so many people that I meet even in the context of psychedelics going through this revolution so much of this this studies and being published out there through organizations like yours that there's a lot of old ideas that it takes time for them to sort of die out because they have to be replaced and they've been ingrained ingrained the media has perpetuated them and people don't even know where they initially got this idea from but these ideas are still there even just the idea of now that you mentioned in the beginning of the interview that I was talking to somebody who was uh was very well-known individual who said you know I'd be open to psilocybin I'd be open to you know maybe some of these other components but MDMA it's man-made so I feel like I don't even want to touch it because it feels like something that how could it have any sense of being able to support us and then there was a bunch of other things of being associated being with a party drug that you talked about so it bottom line it just takes time and I love that you included that in sort of the press release because this is this is a movement that's being built and that you've been working on for quite a long time and that other's been working on and just takes time for that ground swell to build and then all of a sudden it'll tip and we won't be able to remember how things used to be I think um that's what we're hoping and and where is that Tipping Point so yes have we passed it it felt like the Psychedelic science conference uh so you know 2023 that we had in Denver um was just incredible 19th through the 23rd of June 12 400 people um Governor um Jared Polis from Colorado former Governor Rick Perry republican from Texas followed by the director of the national mental health uh Josh Gordon that felt like a Tipping Point that conference like I think we really may now be moved but but I think FDA approval of MDMA assistant therapy will be sort of the final step in that Tipping Point but I wanna say is that I think what we really need to get to and the the drawer of drugs has distorted our Concepts and the thought is that there are good drugs there are bad drugs you talked about loving them all together but the idea is that it's not about the thing it's about the relationship you have with it and so we need to start understanding there are different relationships with drugs some can be healthy some can be unhealthy but that there's no such thing as a good drug or a bad drug there's just drugs as tools and how do we use them is the real question and so the the best example for that from the FDA point of view is the drug thalidomide so there's only one person at the FDA that ever won the presidential Medal of Honor this woman Francis Kelsey and she wanted because she blocked thalidomide from being marketed in the U.S there were some concerns that there are problems in Europe but she blocked it from coming into the U.S and as it turned out it was being prescribed for morning sickness and it caused terrible terrible birth defects people would be born without limbs and flippers just horrible um and so out of that became a lot of FDA reform and all of this as it turns out over the time people have discovered that the effect of um thalidomide on blood vessels can be helpful in treating certain kind of cancers you restrict the blood so thalidomide is also helpful in certain kind of leprosy so thalidomide is now a medicine approved by the FDA with a whole set of safety procedures to make sure so the quintessential Terrible Bad drug is now a life-saving drug for certain people with a different kind of a relationship to it so that that's I think the big thing for people to be thinking about as we think about quote drugs as a category it's really about the relationship that we set up with them that determines whether it's beneficial harmful neutral fun or or not no that's great you know one of the things I've been seeing over the last few years is interviewing a lot of psychiatrists and individuals who have been evolving their viewpoint on marijuana and have gone through different sorts of circles around it again all on the idea that you don't want to say something is good or bad but we want to look at how something is being used the relationship the availability I'd love to get your commentary on this just because it's topical so there's a few people that I've had on the podcast that have talked about the increasing sort of concern in the context as marijuana has been legalized in certain States the amount of THC has gotten so high go ahead and I'll explain why in just a second yeah yeah right and I want your honest thoughts on this I'm just bringing up you know because we're talking about drugs and we're talking about yeah yeah yeah that that there seems to be some emerging data about the connection between very high THC and its relationship to individuals that might be prone in the classic sort of age category especially leaning towards males of you know psychotic episodes or schizophrenia right what are your what are your thoughts on this and these aren't people that are saying that wheat is completely bad and that people shouldn't use them but they're saying that when you're looking at the context how it's being used what's available to people have you been following this topic at all well I'm a a long-term pot smoker so I definitely have been following it the reason why I was laughing is because right before this podcast I came back from the dispensary and the way I buy my cannabis from the dispensary I just advertise this for a second um it's uh Super Lemon Haze so I go to the dispensary and I say give me sativa with the highest THC you've got that's what I want I only want the highest THC pot so for me it works great it gives me a lot of new thoughts also the higher potency the pot the more smoke you need to inhale for the same amount of cannabinoids so that it's you could say it's even healthier for your lungs it's clear that cannabis does not cause lung cancer um so I think that um when we talk about hash right hash hashish hash has always been around it was around in the 60s it's been around for thousands of years hash is more potent than even this you know the percentage of THC and hash is higher than the percentage THC and the highest THC cigarette that I can get from the dispensary so I now let's talk about schizophrenia I think it's possible to have problems high THC pod can cause people to be disoriented it can cause problems um and it's about the relationship you have with it so does it cause schizophrenia so what has happened Lester grinspoon was a psychiatrist at Harvard Medical School one of the very early and most prominent advocates for medical marijuana and what he showed was um that when you look at schizophrenia there's a general sense that it's one percent of the population and that seems to be across different cultures across different times but it's more or less one percent of the population now what happened in the 60s when there was an enormous increase in the use of cannabis through the 70s did the percentage of people with schizophrenia change no it stayed the same so whether people who are vulnerable can be catalyzed into some sort of schizophrenic episode because of um cannabis I think it's possible yeah yeah um but I think that overall we've always had potencies through hash that are greater than this is available and so I and also I do think that there's um there should be choices you know so people should know what they're getting and those people like high potency like me should get it those people that don't want it can get something else or not at all but I don't think that the number of cases of sort of psychotic breaks has increased you know because of cannabis generally the thought is that these are people that are vulnerable it would have happened anyway one way or another um and and at least that's what we think from looking at the base rates um a lot of people in fact a friend of mine was over last night and he smoked this uh and he said man that was really strong it made me uh hard to talk for a while so I I think it it takes a certain amount of you know different people have their preferences for for different things but the dangers of prohibition are so great that the dangers of high potency pot are best addressed through public education through information through testing through labeling then through any kind of potency limits or or anything like that everything has risks where everything has risks um and for certain people under certain circumstances really high potency marijuana could be problematic but I would say the biggest thing that people need to worry about is Edibles when you talk about cannabis when you talk about people that have scary stories that they felt terrible it took hours for them to get over it they thought they were dying um it's almost always from edibles hmm you know it's it's slower to come on it's last longer it's a different drug metabolized in the liver it's it's more disorienting so I'd say the real cautions need to be about edibles but unreal but but also some people um you know don't like high potency THC other people do and yeah I think the the part that's for me is so good about it is it Fosters creativity and and thinking um just just to give you one example that's kind of a funny example you know we've got a 12.9 million dollar Grant from the state of Michigan to do cannabis research in 320 veterans with PTSD now we mainly focus on MDMA assisted therapy for ptse that gets to the root causes you can work through it you can reprocess the trauma you can do this memory reconsolidation fear Extinction neuroplasticity all of that and then the goal is to make it so people don't need empty May therapy anymore they've dealt with the trauma they've reprocessed it they're fine so cannabis for PTSD is palliative not Curative you need to take it every day it helps you with nightmares Focus you on the present but it never gets to the root of the problem and you keep needing it every day for for most people that use cannabis for for PTSD so we've had a problem with the FDA the study has been on clinical hold for a very long time and we just got something back the other day um actually on Friday um and it was from the FDA and it was rejecting our use of smoked marijuana they would not permit smoked marijuana and not only that that they're not going to permit vaporizer marijuana and in their smoked marijuana they insinuated they they made a paragraph that was super flimsy but they tried to imply that marijuana caused lung cancer and they quoted this fellow Dr Donald tashkin who's was funded by Nida for decades and decades to study cannabis and lung function he is the world's expert on cannabis and lung function so I'm like the FDA is such an obstacle how is it that we're gonna do this they're just so wrong and they're so dead set against smoking and vaping we were talking about vaping as the plant in a vaporizer but they were criticized they didn't even talk about that they talked about vaping as vaping isolated cannabinoids and in oil and vape pens and that's what they're against so they didn't even read our respond to our protocol so anyway I'm thinking how do we respond to FDA and so I decided okay I'm gonna smoke some pot think about it how do we get our marijuana study up and running when the FDA is blocking it well I'm going to smoke some pot think about all right so what I realized while I was high that I needed to create new facts on the ground and that what I should do is call um Donald tashkin who's now professor emeritus retired and asked him if he would comment on the way the FDA used his citation because I knew that he has published saying there's no evidence that marijuana causes lung cancer so I wrote him an email the very next day this is on Saturday I wrote him I smoked we got the letter on Friday I smoked the pot on Saturday I wrote him a letter on Sunday he wrote right back and he said and we had a conversation with him on Monday yesterday and he said he will help us wow and he'll write this letter so the struggle with FDA to get them to approve marijuana has been helped by uh my smoking marijuana and becoming more creative and coming up with a different idea and at Maps we call that smokeable tasks so we permit people to do drugs at work if they and their manager say that they're as good or more effective at whatever task then um they can use drugs at work we're not against that it's not about your state it's about your productivity it's about performance it's not about what state of consciousness you're in so one of the best uses of a smokable task is uh cannabis for Creative problem solving so that's enshrined in the maps employee manual wow wow what a story yeah there's some interesting theories of Chris Palmer out of Harvard uh who wrote a book called brain energy about just mitochondria insults are there certain things that people are doing at certain times that there's a total overload of mitochondria that could put somebody in a place that's there and and that by the way that could be diet for certain people you know so could some people be more susceptible from a mitochondrial overload level that there is some sort of breakage that's there I'm only addressing it because I've mentioned it before inside of the podcast but I'm so open to the idea I personally don't have a draw towards you know marijuana I never smoked I never really even drank alcohol growing up I have no job really now to alcohol and I have no draw to marijuana but I'm so fascinated about this space of psychedelics because I think another part of it that's there is that when close friends come to you and say that what they got out of two or three sessions of assisted MDMA couples counseling they feel like it was 50 years of therapy and probably even better than that yes yes yes yes but they might not even not have gotten there if they were just doing therapy alone right maybe maybe therapy on its own but it even made it worse if there was just using therapy those are the stories where you start to feel like wow I need to learn more about this this sounds so profound wow well um you do need to learn more about it and your wife and I have you know your wife and you have some uh whenever your pregnancy situation is you know resolved and whenever you want to I think you'll learn an awful lot for it my wife and I try to do it once a year with each other um super helpful but I will also say that there's a scientist Dr Steve martyr at UCLA that's starting a study with MDMA for schizophrenia um yes it's not necessarily cure schizophrenia but it's this idea that they feel a lot of anxiety depression fear confusion isolation and so saying maybe MDMA can be helpful to people who are schizophrenic I think a lot of times when you have an emotional Break um it's easy for a psychiatrists and others to diagnose you as schizophrenic you know like and then start medicating you and then it just solidifies there whereas I think that if people have these uh early I don't know what the story is with your friend but that there's um a lot of situations I think where people get diagnosed and medicated whereas if they would have been given time to work through stuff and potentially been given MDMA or some other um psychedelic in a supportive context they might work through it and then you add on top of that the the emerging data around ketogenic diet and how that seems to be influencing and being a role for people who are going through severe mental health disorders there's a few trials that are going on right now at Harvard's McLean school of medicine that Chris Palmer is involved in and I mean it's just a completely different future that we can paint in this crisis of mental health that we have if these tools are available yeah now by the way I'm one mile away from McLean Hospital that's amazing yeah and that's where we started MDMA research at Harvard this is around 2006. so as part of the Psychedelic Renaissance there's symbolic politics it was necessary I thought there's two key things that were necessary to really say that we have reached this Renaissance in central health research one was start research at Harvard again and that's where Timothy Leary and ramdas and Ralph Messer and others were so we had to do that and we were able to do that at McLean with cancer patients with anxiety to give them MDMA then the other one was that we had to start LSD research because that is the quintessential bad psychedelic that everybody's scared of and and we managed to do that in 2000 uh and eight in Switzerland again cancer patients with anxiety with LSD therapy um yeah it all comes full circle doesn't it um Rick this has been fantastic thank you for spending so much time with me to share all these beautiful stories and to also give our audience the history of it all uh last question here who comes from a good friend of mine uh who's part of the maps program a therapist that's in Los Angeles who I'll give a shout out to I won't mention her name but I'll give a shout out to um what do you hope for as the regulating body or how government sort of gets involved in allowing to bring this to Market you know you decided that MDMA through FDA approval was the method that you guys wanted to pursue in maps once that's there do you imagine a governing body or do you imagine some sort of special Branch that's set up specifically for psychedelics or is it all part of the FDA well I think that every medical specialty like when you talk about the board certified you know you're a board-certified psychiatrist or you're a board certified surgeon whatever it happens to be those boards are organizations of people who practice that specialty and then they've but they're non-governmental organizations so we hope that there will eventually be board certified or something like that psychedelic therapists that there will be a regulating board self-regulating by the community of psychedelic therapists that sort of decides on minimum standards and training and where you can complain if you've got complaints things like that so I think that what's going to happen is that there will be um eventually schools of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy will have as part of their Core Curriculum psychedelic Psychotherapy and it won't be MDMA therapy or psilocybin it will be MDMA and psilocybin and ketamine and five meodmt and mescaline and Ayahuasca and I became so that they will train psychedelic therapists and cross-train them in all the different modalities and then there will be these regular boys now what I want to make clear is that for MDMA assisted therapy we have a manualized therapy that we call interdirected therapy people could go to the maps.org website and they could download the treatment manual and that describes our therapeutic approach we're in the midst of all these negotiations with FDA but we are of the view that therapists before they can administer MDMA to patients once it's approved they need to go through training and they need to learn the method that we used in phase three because that's the method that generated the data that got it approved however once they've learned the method then they're free to practice on their own so that they could add it with they could combine it with EMDR or cognitive behavior therapy or whatever they want to combine it to so that there's going to be minimum standards of what you have to know about the method that was used to make this drug into phase three different kind of trainings and then you're free to practice on you on your own but I think that there will be these regulatory boards for psyched dog therapy um and eventually I think they're well right off the bat actually we hope that there will be um you know insurance coverage for it and then we've got a lot of discussions about um the apprenticeship model how do we bring in more therapists and I think it should be where um you know one person is the licensed therapist and the second person is like an apprentice in the room and as they're learning under supervision of the first person so I think that the um you know we're kind of ahead of the creation of these organizations because there's really been no need for that it's all underground right now there's thousands of underground psychedelic therapists who are doing actually most of them very good work but they've never formalized anything now that it's becoming above ground and approved then we will see these regulatory bodies beautiful well shout out to all those individuals and the people that are part of the maps program because they're literally building a new future for us all with the goal that you've shared many times of Net Zero trauma by 2070 that's there so Rick you're giving me so much time thank you so much for being on the program and lastly individuals can contribute to Maps directly thank you yes they can well Maps is a non-profit and so we're looking to build our membership we also just had thou um 12 400 people at the Psychedelic science we had um about 500 speakers or so we're getting ready to post all those videotapes up on the maps website for free for people to learn the latest in psychedelic science but we we do encourage people to help us by becoming members ideally monthly members and just go to maps.org and you can donate and we'd like to keep it that way so that the more donations we get the we just stay focused on public benefit I'm gonna do it right after this I don't know how it's possible I've donated to other you know things in this group but I have not donated Maps I'm gonna do it right after this Rick hello thank you so much thank you so much for being here super appreciate you my pleasure hey YouTube If you enjoyed what you just saw keep watching for more great content on how to improve your brain and your life once you have this new death experience you realize that you're not alone you're part of something much greater than yourself which means that the problems of this bag of skin are not all that important there's a lot more going on

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 6hrE2pg2UYI (https://youtu.be/6hrE2pg2UYI) ===

[Music] thank you Hello everybody welcome back to psychedelics today this is your host Kyle Buller and today on the show I have the honor to sit down with Rick doblin in person this interview took place uh the Sunday before the conference officially got started I guess there's probably some workshops and such going on at that time uh but we chat about the excitement around the conference the huge growth that they've seen over the years um I think that Rick was saying that they sold around 12 000 tickets so there was more than 12 000 people at psychedelic science this year which is crazy to think about and if you went I hope you had a wonderful time I know our team did and it was really really fun so thank you maps for putting on this this really great event and Conference and you know it was just really fun to to get to meet everybody all these online relationships and finally getting to to meet up in person in this episode we chat about some news that uh Maps just received a 5 million dollar Grant from the Cohen foundation and also the patient an access fund that will be created we talk about the second phase three study we talk about MDMA and group therapy we talk about a topic that I found really interesting but MDMA with adolescents and teens and PTSD and that might be a study that's that's coming down the pipeline in the future which yeah again I find fascinating so this is a really fun conversation I hope you enjoy it and if you were at Psy science well maybe it's a nice little trip down memory lane uh before the conference gets going here so if you like this episode uh remember to subscribe to our podcast wherever you listen to podcasts and be sure to follow us on social media we're on all the social media platforms so if you want to stay up to date give us a follow over there so thank you everybody and I hope you enjoyed this episode with Rick doblin and we will catch you on the other side [Music] all right welcome back everybody psychedelics today Rick doblin things is your second time on the podcast and this is pre-conference so how are you feeling um I'm feeling um super excited about what's been happening it's astonishing I'm a little bit anxious about my talk which I still need to prepare but overall we have been um just astonished at the fact that we now have 11 500 people registered for this conference and you know we in our wildest dreams thought maybe we'd get up to ten thousand but even that was just like a wild dream the largest psychedelic conference that's ever happened was our psychedelic science in 2017 and that was a little over 3 000 right yeah so now we're almost four times as big it's a whole different cultural moment yeah and what I didn't fully anticipate is how this conference would be like a magnet for the entire Community that's what we hoped for right but there's all sorts of activities around and the part that I was dreaming of but wasn't sure what happened is that our opening ceremony is going to have the governor of Colorado oh amazing and then Jared yeah and then once he agreed to come I felt that it was really important that we have a bipartisan opening just as a symbol for what we're really doing that we're trying to bring this again into the culture out of the culture wars and so we have the former Texas Governor Rick Perry Oh man thing and then because we want to work into the National Institutes of Health and the sort of the mainstream in that way we have the uh Josh Gordon who's the director of the National Institute of Mental Health so he's coming as well so we have this is this is astonishing yeah yeah and there's just so many there's a group of um a meeting for funders that's got over a hundred uh you know funders that are coming there's I think the most uh prevalent uh category of people that are coming as therapists yeah because they're really interested in how they can you know further help their patients in the future I think the yeah the first Maps conference I've been to was in 2013 and I think that was around like 12 1500 people so like what's it been like over the past that was 1900 I think yeah I think that was 1900 yeah what's it been like to watch the growth in this field over the past like decade or so well it's just been uh so satisfying I mean part of the growth has been difficult for us in the sense of the rise of all the for-profit companies because what I had hoped for was that there would be we would clear out a pathway through the regulatory system and that then others would want to try to develop psychedelics as well but I didn't anticipate that there would be hundreds and hundreds of for-profit psychedelic companies and I also didn't anticipate how much that would actually make it more difficult for us to raise charitable donations yeah how has that been making it difficult for you guys well because so many of the people that were in the past willing to donate because that was the only way forward now we're thinking well maybe they would invest people want the returns and companies yeah and so we've seen kind of a rise of um I guess it's this way in any new industry that sort of hits the stock market that unrealistic expectations and valuations went way up and then the valuations crashed along with you know larger macroeconomic conditions so that made it even harder to raise more donations yeah do you see a shift with folks that are looking to invest with that little bit of that crash that happened like a year or so ago I think that there's been um a difficult time for people to invest in anything these days yes although the stock market is uh been going up and I think there's a lot of hope that well I think a turning point is going to come in a couple months when we publish the results of our second phase three study you know there was only two drugs that were ever given breakthrough therapy designation by the FDA for PTSD and the other one was this drug tan Maya by tonic's Pharmaceuticals and that failed in phase three and then they did a re-evaluation of their data post-hoc after they had the data and they came up with a new theory of why it might work in a certain group of people and then it failed again and so there has been really no successful example of any psychedelic having two successful phase three studies and we've we have announced that our second phase three study was very successful but I think once people see the actual data when it comes out in a scientific publication that will give the whole field this sense yeah this can work even within the constraints of working within FDA yeah is there anything that you can discuss around that well just that it was uh statistically significant that it was called confirmatory so our first phase three study was remarkably statistically significant .0001 what that means is it's a one in ten thousand chance that the findings that we had were random and not due to the MDMA enhancing the Psychotherapy and we also had an excellent safety record in that there was no serious Adverse Events of suicidality or anything like that in the MDMA group there was some in the placebo group and so the second phase three study called confirmatory has confirmed our findings so we also have no serious Adverse Events and I think that we've had some good meetings with the FDA what are called pre-enda meetings which are pre-new drug application and we're pretty much in agreement with the FDA and on the fact that we've got the data we're going to be filing it yeah and so I think there's a real good chance that um PTSD sufferers may have a new option for treatment I think the key challenge for us is going to be properly training therapists yeah can you discuss that a little bit yeah yeah so I think the proper training of psychedelic therapists is different than the proper training of psychiatrists you know to administer any kind of pharmacological drugs you know because for Psychiatry when they give the ssris or they give other kinds of medications or they give electroconvulsive therapy or whatever those are meant to be the treatments in our case the treatment is really the human relationship the therapy and then the psychedelics make the therapy more effective and so it makes the most sense for people that are interested in doing psychedelic therapy for them to have the experience of the psych dogs themselves as we start to scale there's a lot of experienced trauma therapists but they might not be experienced Psychonauts right and it's hard to describe what a drug does I remember the first time I ever took MDMA which was back in 1982 and I had been given descriptions of it I'd seen people doing it but once I took it um I was just blown away by what what it did for me and how I couldn't really have predicted it from what people were reading yeah no so so I think we've just announced a partnership with numinous a company in Canada that is going to be opening up a protocol to therapists to go and receive MDMA as part of their training and then I'm trying to also work with a company new mind in the Bahamas to do that um people would be going to the Bahamas to receive that treatment yes that sounds awesome yes yes yes and it's um it's really really important but we would never require it right I think the important thing is to say is we want to welcome Skeptics we want to welcome people who don't necessarily want to do psychedelics but what we say is that the experience of MDMA and this was true for also psilocybin and all the other psychedelics that the therapists that are going to administer them to patients they won't be automatically better than all the therapists that have never done it but just they will be better themselves if they've had that experience and so that's going to be a challenge for us to figure out how to do that post approval in the United States outside of a protocol ideally because that's now the most expensive part of the training and are not necessarily the most expensive but the the there's an initial training that's around 20 or 30 hours of online and then around 40 45 hours in person then there's the option of receiving MDMA and then there is the supervision that they get when they work with their first PTSD patient and for somebody that would receive MDMA part of that training would that be individual care like having the two therapists there or have you looked at like group models to cut down the cost well we are just now working with Christopher uh at the Portland Oregon VA on a group therapy model and he's um hopefully just a few months away from starting and it will reduce the costs it's not clear that it will be more effective right part of the healing I think is when people are under the influence of MDMA because in our eight hour therapy sessions more or less you know it varies with everybody but more or less around half the time their eyes are closed listening to music they're having this inner experience that's really metaphorical poetic imagery it's like storytelling to themselves the other half they're talking to the therapists and so I think that the talking to the therapist part is when they're describing what's happening but they're also in a way telling themselves what's happening right and I think that anchors it as part of in a way the integration process and I think with group therapy there'll be less of that opportunity for each person to share yeah and they'll be a little bit less of each person's you know eyes closed going inward perhaps because they are listening to what's happening with others on the other hand hearing what's happening to others can encourage them to go deeper into themselves they can find similar resonances with other people's stories so we're not quite sure how group therapy is going to work but we have a big humanitarian project plan you know we want to reduce trauma and PTSD all over the world world there's estimates that are years old but 350 million people with PTSD in the world the VA estimates 13 million PTSD patients in the U.S and there's a lot of countries that have enormous amount of trauma but don't have psychotherapists and psychiatrists so we're going to have to find group models and I think one of the things that I'm most interested is actually going to be group models with families because when you think about for example there's you know four or five million Ukrainian refugees in Poland and so families are all traumatized at the same time yeah and I think when we think about what we're going to try to explore with groups it could be um you know giving it with parents and their children you know the FDA is requiring us to do adolescent studies if indeed they do give us permission to make MDMA into a prescription medicine for adults and what that means is 18 years are over then we must to do studies with 13 to 17 year olds that's fascinating I could imagine people listening going what well I I just received a um I just received an email from a woman that was describing um an underground therapy situation with a 17 year old who had been very deeply traumatized and how much it meant to her to feel hope to feel love to be able to feel connected so I think when people think about children and psychedelics what they're missing they're they're coming most many of the listeners I imagine coming from the American perspective yeah but when you look at the indigenous groups that have successfully integrated psychedelics like the Native American church with peyote or the Ayahuasca churches they don't have age limits right I went to a Native American ceremony Navajo peyote ceremony and one of the Navajo men brought his nine-year-old son wow to spend the night in the teepee and he took peyote not as much as the rest of us he could wander around a little bit more than the rest of us but it was um it was in a family context and it can be helpful and integrated that way and a lot of people in their culture do try psychedelics when they're in high school or you know before they're 18 or over and I think it's the context that really can be supportive or or destructive but I think this other part that there's this story about how how kids brains are developing and we have to prevent them from having these experiences until their brains are mature and that's just like a specious argument in favor of the drug war you know we've got to protect the kids because if we're talking particularly about somebody who's traumatized their brains are already not normal they're they're hyper Vigilant they're hyper fearful they're amygdalas hyperactive you know so if you can layer in love and spirituality and connection at an earlier age I think that's a healthy thing so you know I just think if I would have had MDMA at my bar mitzvah when I was 13 yeah I would have had a way better time in high school yeah we're missing a lot of those rights of passages around that age and I used to work with at-risk teenagers uh you know a lot of a lot of those kids were experimenting but they didn't have the context it was really funny because um one of those kids at the residential program I ended up in they ended up in this college class I was teaching it was the history of psychedelics so they got to hear more around the context of it and I remember they said wow I understand all the stories you told me when I was at that treatment center and it makes so much more sense I'm looking at it from such a different perspective now than like my friends going out and just you know kind of recreating in a way like there's this therapeutic use how can we use it in a different way so yeah I think it's important I think we need honest drug education too I mean when kids are getting educated about drugs these days it's um very fear-based and abstinence-based and misinformation and a lot of the kids know that and they're not sure what's really going on and which could also be dangerous like I definitely talked a lot about testing and most kids didn't ever think that their drugs were adulterated right and especially in nowadays there's so much adulteration in the compounds yeah and it's much more dangerous now with fentanyl yeah yeah so when you said the FDA requires adolescence yeah um research why is that is it just because you're bringing a drug to Market and you need to see how it well yes more and more what's happening is that a lot of drugs that have been tested in adults are never tested in adolescence and then like for example antidepressants a lot of antidepressants are given to adolescents um and so there's a lack of information and so the FDA has required us to file what's called a pediatric plan and not only are they requiring us to do that but there's an incentive for doing that so that MDMA is in the public domain it was invented by Merck in 1912. the uses of MDMA for PTSD were happening before I even took MDMA in 1982 before I even learned about it so the use is in the public domain and so what we're relying on is what's called Data exclusivity so the FDA gives uh the exclusive use of your data to any sponsor that makes a drug into a medicine that's not patented for five years and that means that generics can't enter so that's an incentive other companies can generate their own data so that's how it's different than a patent but that if other companies wanted to generate their own data they could do that but that if you do pediatric studies they give you an additional six months of data exclusivity the taxon at the end when you have the most therapists the most prescriptions being made so we're incentivized and required to do work in adolescence and I think that'll be some of the best work that we ever do because if we can help people closer to the trauma even from a economic point of view the from the insurance companies the benefits that will happen to younger people by having a yield from PTSD over many many more years more so than working with somebody who's older right yeah it's harder to change as you get older and I've noticed that like as being a therapist like I loved working with the younger population versus because they're just more malleable right like there's just more growth well you just brought up a really interesting point which is this idea of critical periods yeah and so this neuroscientist School Dolan at Hopkins you may have seen this paper just a couple an article about her work a couple days ago that came out and the article is about this idea that psychedelics open up a certain neuroplasticity and it's like a critical period so we know that kids can learn languages a lot easier than adults can yeah and so there's something about the brain that is more open and there's social reward learning different kind of critical periods at different stages of your life and so it seems that psychedelics open up these critical periods so that people are their brains are more malleable and that they can indeed incorporate new kind of information so if you've got traumatized kids and you can help them with MDMA or something else to to have them get over the traumas that they're able to do that in an easier way and then there's a lot less suffering and there's so I think that I'm very much looking for that so particularly in these humanitarian contexts where you've got whole families that have been traumatized treating them in groups in a family setting I think will be really helpful and then there's something too around like systems change right what happens when one person changes in a system and then the system isn't either educated around that and there's like that just that tension that starts to happen and we talk about this pretty often but how do we prep systems for that change because that could be really jarring and I've definitely talked to some parents who are like oh you know my my child did this psychedelic and now they're just totally different and it's bad and but yeah can we prep systems a little bit that's a great point also so that there's been several um studies the one which was done at Sunstone Therapies in Rockville Maryland and they worked with a cancer patient and their partner and both got MDMA and also there's a program a a therapeutic approach cognitive behavioral conjoined therapy conjoint again means couples or dyads and it's for PTSD where one person has PTSD and it affects the relationship they're in and both of them get the MDMA and that's also been remarkably helpful better than anything that they were able to achieve without the MDMA so I think working with couples is now it also raises an interesting point which is the way that underground therapists most often get in trouble right yeah is that you think that it would be something goes wrong with the therapy and then the patient complains but it's not like that that's the answer if something goes right with the therapy and then somebody wants to make a change and then their Community or their partner doesn't follow along in that change and they get upset and then they complain so yeah this systems approach is is very important going back to you know we were talking about adolescence we we're recording on Father's Day so happy Father's Day oh thank you being in this field being a leader you know how do you talk about psychedelics to you know kids and I'm sure there's a lot of parents that have this interest in it and you know how do you talk about this in a responsible way or well I think that again this honest drug education and that the context is what's important so I think what the the first piece of the way I tried my wife and I tried to talk to our kids about it was to help them understand that it's not the substance itself it's the relationship you have with it yeah and whether you use it responsibly whether you're respecting it whether you understand what it does and so we actually when each of our kids have their Bar Mitzvah or their bot Mitzvah we offered them MDMA or marijuana if they wanted to do it with us yeah you know we did not realize that that was the best possible anti-drug strategy to say oh come do it with your parents they also like no way no way we're not ready forget about it they sort of change their mind afterwards um but I think what you need to do is just be honest with them and say that this these experiences people how do you teach kids about alcohol we have a horrible situation yeah where you know it's illegal and then uh until they're 21 and nobody follows that and then they do it without parental supervision and without guidance and and I was even told in by when our kids were in high school that if we were to offer a safe place for our kids and their friends to drink alcohol that we would be prosecuted yeah I mean it's just incredible if the way that we do this so I think with kids that are hungry for real information and when you tell them that I think they'll respect um the risks there there are risks and there are advantages and I think yeah just be honest with yeah he's definitely better drug education and I think um who is that a drug policy Alliance was uh coming up with uh some of that stuff yeah Safety First and um oh yeah Marsha Rosenbaum did a lot of work on that yeah some of the programs that are still being taught to adolescence are um filled with misinformation yeah but I think that when you think about these Rites of Passage that when you're an adolescent um or early in college those are the ripe times for people to sort of explore who are they where do they fit into the larger world I think in many indigenous cultures that's the time of initiation for a lot of people so I think we have hurt ourselves tremendously now you hear this always about marijuana like oh kids should you know developing brains and they shouldn't never try marijuana and I think the thing is that overuse is a problem if you know daily use before you go to school all that is a problem makes it difficult to learn things like that but we tend to make sweeping statements like never use right and instead of like a more intentional use that's like maybe in a ceremonial context and for a certain purpose yeah yeah yeah I think that and so I think what we'll see is as we develop what we anticipate will be thousands and thousands of psychedelic clinics with therapists cross-trained in all the different ketamine MDMA psilocybin 5meo DMT all the different modalities that they'll be a different kind of education seeping into the culture about context about how that these substances that people have only thought about in terms of party context that they have therapeutic potential so even when kids go out to party with their friends and if they take these let's say they take MDMA or quote ecstasy or Molly or whatever in a party context when something difficult comes up they don't automatically know this is an opportunity to work through it to face it and that you should be easier because of the way that drug works the easier to process those emotions and instead it starts to get difficult and they think oh this is a bad trip and they try to shut it down and run away from it so I think the therapeutic context and more of those kind of therapeutic stories will seep through the culture and help people understand that this these tools can be used in these very productive ways yeah yeah and things are changing it seems like very rapidly quick question I want to go back to the therapy training I know you were part of the first cohort of a holistic breath work facility yes and you know that is kind of like a controversial topic does somebody need to take a substance to get you know specific training in MDMA or psilocybin do you think uh breath work could be an alternative um no no why is that no I think breath work is great in itself you know we have Stan Groff and Brigitte are here at the conference you know and he's um 91 years old now it's incredible we've got I think 240 people doing breath work breath work is an incredible technique and what it demonstrates is that you don't need exterior substances to catalyze a lot of these um flow into Consciousness that hyperventilation is a tool that can be used in that way but it's different than MDMA and so people have also talked about ketamine since ketamine is now legally available for depression can you train uh MDMA therapists with ketamine and I think that's again it's useful to understand what ketamine is like what non-ordinary states of Consciousness are like but it's not the same different process different protocols yeah and MDMA is fundamentally different it's more interactive it's um which you wouldn't be getting during breath work right you're just sitting there and somebody's having their own experience and there's not much of that engagement yeah breath work is really like um more like LSD or psilocybin than MDMA is right right so I think that people in the absence of opportunities legally to experience MDMA as part of their training to become an MDMA therapist learning breath work is very helpful and in fact we have used breath work in some of our therapy training programs and it's been really helpful to sort of draw people into a deeper emotional level and to to understand how these experiences are within us so I think that's one of the main things that the breath work demonstrates is the experience is not in the pill yeah it's not in the Psychedelic the Psychedelic releases experiences that are within our psyche and you can do that with breath work you can do that with meditation there's all different ways that you can do it but that the most reliable frequent way is often to take a substance or to to the breath work or something so I do think that um it's going to be a major point of going forward is for us to strongly recommend that MDMA therapists have their own MDMA experience but again never require it it's always optional but and I'm not quite sure why it's so controversial I I mean it doesn't maybe it's because of just our perception of illegal substances still and you know yeah it's like yeah they're taking it because they don't have a diagnosis but we do have FDA approval for a protocol to give MDMA and we're learning about self-compassion but it's limited to therapists yeah but it's very very expensive to do those kind of studies when there's all sorts of data Gathering and also even though we have that permission for that study we're not going to be implementing it and that's why we're going to have this um numinous in Canada and new mind and Bahamas and um hopefully other places will do that eventually Jamaica because right now if you want to work with psilocybin to be a psilocybin therapist you can go to Jamaica you can go to Costa Rica you can go to the Netherlands there are legal places because people have this kind of um romantic notion if it's from nature oh oh it's great you know and if it's from synthetic then it's a problem so a lot of the initiatives that have like here we are in Colorado the natural plant medicine initiative past and that's starting with psilocybin but then it's going to expand to um ibogaine and to Ayahuasca and to mescaline but not from peyote from San Pedro and so but when you add synthetic like MDMA than it wouldn't have passed right initiative yeah yeah which is yeah which is sad but it's so focused on yeah more of those natural but I get I get it you know sometimes it's like the perception of it seems maybe a little less risky if it's not yeah but didn't they sign a bill here in Colorado that once it becomes um approved I think Colorado had that certain bill that they needed yeah actually yes write that into law yeah so um what happens is once the FDA says that um if they do say that MDMA assistant therapy for PTSD is approved as a prescription medicine then the DEA The Drug Enforcement Administration has 90 days to reschedule it to take it out of schedule one and then half the states automatically reschedule according to the feds but another half don't and there's various different things and Colorado was one of the ones that didn't and it needed a new law and so we did pass that law here that if MDMA becomes rescheduled federally then it will automatically become rescheduled here in New York we did something better which is that we made New York like half the other states so that if anything gets rescheduled so then it by the feds then it gets rescheduled in New York and so I think that we have to realize as what what maps and the maps public benefit are doing is we're not just trying to make MDMA into a medicine we're trying to help the entire field so our default should be let us try in these other states California is another state that has to have a law passed that would permit MDMA or any other scheduled drug if it's rescheduled it has to a law has to be passed so what we're trying to do is to make it so that all drugs get rescheduled following the feds and I think we have to be careful that the maps public benefit Corporation doesn't interpret its mission to be so narrow that it's just about us that it's just about MDMA because really what we're trying to do is in the public benefit is bring forth psychedelic medicine and we want to empower therapists to be cross-trained in all the different substances and then customize a treatment program for each individual patient right and so at some point a patient might benefit the most from psilocybin or 5meo and and we don't want to say oh only MDMA for those people and I think one of the reasons why this conference has been so successful and why there's astonishing 11 500 people registered amazing that's amazing is that people perceive us as really trying to help the entire field yeah and that's why we've been able to sort of coalesce the the community here and that's what we want to continue to do so I think in our efforts to do this rescheduling our first default should be how do we make it automatic for everything and that's actually going to be good for our business model too it's not that we need to Channel people just everybody to MDMA are you guys going to look at other psychedelics ones MDMA gets approved or if it gets approved um yeah I think so I think well I think first off there's going to be a lot of other uses of MDMA other than PTSD yeah and I think one of the early ones is going to be eating disorders right but there's a lot of other uses I think that would be yeah we're just in the beginning of really trying to find all this stuff out right all right well I think we're getting a time here that's pretty funny anything you want to close with um today well I just want to say that I think the um the podcast that you're doing that is so important because we are gathering a lot of the data and the data is looking good and so what I think we really need is public education yeah and for people to understand that there's the possibility of FDA approval and that there's also the possibility of state level reforms in different ways and that we want to make it so that as much as possible people get the best experiences and in particular when it's difficult that they understand that difficult is not the same as bad yeah and that don't try to suppress it because this is precious the world is on fire the humanity is [Music] um the rise of authoritarianism and climate change and there's a lot of fearful things happening and when fearful things happen people tend to close down and they tend to be more easily manipulated by unscrupulous politicians and so I think we really need to um try to do this mainstreaming of psychedelics in a way there's not a backlash and in order to do that we really need trained therapists and the understanding in the population so I think the podcasts and all the ways that you're doing to try to educate people are really important I want to thank you for that yeah thank you thank you yeah I think that's a big part of it is just trying to shift the public perception right and like try to break some of that stigma because I think that's still something we're battling up against you know I feel like we're definitely in a bubble and it's like you know a lot of people around me are really excited but there's a lot of people out there that are still kind of fearful oh yeah I think there's people that still think MDMA causes holes in your brain yeah you know or LSD damages your chromosomes or and a lot of the fear is actually fear of what's in US you know fear of the um suppressed anxieties and traumas and and urges that people are scared of and we need to find a way to help people process them yeah oh I guess I would like to add one thing more which is that um what we've done for the longest time with maps is that you know because we've needed so much money we we have tended to focus on the major donor strategy but what we'd really like to do is build the base we have 11 500 people registered here but we only have a few thousand um annual donors right so we'd really like to encourage people uh to become members of maps and to help us do a lot of the drug policy reform and the harm reduction and the Health Equity work and all the other things that we're trying to do through the non-profits so if you're listening please donate and then actually also you had some uh news that uh you just got a five million dollar Grant from uh Stephen and Alexandra Foundation right the Cohen Foundation Foundation yes yes and what's the tremendous about that Grant is that um because we have been offering funds to investors different opportunities we had a royalty share agreement and raised 43 million dollars through what we call the vine deal with Ryan Zur which was tremendous it was tremendous but what the cone Foundation said is that they would make this five million donation as if it was part of the royalty share but instead of the royalties that we would give back to them that we have to use that for patient Assistance programs which is tremendous that's amazing yeah because we all know accessibility is going to be an issue right yeah yeah and so yeah what we didn't talk about yet was insurance coverage and How likely it is but it seems like the value of helping someone overcome their PTSD is tremendous because it's so can be so debilitating so we do think that we have a very good chance of starting right off with insurance coverage um you know it's not confirmed yet but we're hopeful about that and yet there's going to be a lot of people that don't have insurance and often the people that don't have insurance are the ones that are the most dramatized yeah so the cone Foundation donation is a donation as if it were an investment but that the return would go to Patient assistance it's tremendous with what Alex says Stephen Cohen have done in that way and we hope that inspires others to donate in that way or yeah well if you're listening you have the money to give please give to Maps yeah awesome well thanks so much Rick really appreciate it it's been a pleasure foreign welcome back everybody I hope you enjoyed that episode Rick Dublin huge shout out to the maps team everybody that uh played a role in putting on psychedelic science uh huge shout out to to Rick for taking time out of his busy and hectic schedule um to sit down and chat with psychedelics today so he could provide some updates around uh what's been going on with maps the the five million Grant from the Cohen Foundation the patient access fund giving us updates on the phase three studies and the future of MDMA Psychotherapy so hopefully we get to see MDMA assistant therapy it's a treatment for PTSD in the future hopefully fingers crossed for that 2024 date and yeah if you haven't been following Maps definitely go check them out maps.org considering donating so they can continue with their work and um yeah so we can see MDMA as an approved treatment if you have any questions comments anything like that feel free to send us an email info at psychedelicity.com and again as a reminder be sure to subscribe to the podcast wherever you listen to podcasts and follow us on social media so you can keep up to date with what we're up to and announcements and news and all all those great things so with that I hope you are having a beautiful and lovely day whenever you're listening to this episode and we will catch you on the next episode second talks today [Music] [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 1D45QAc_fwc (https://youtu.be/1D45QAc_fwc) ===

all right hey everybody this is jason wilson with isn't life curious and today we're continuing our mini-series about the science of psychedelics in serious about psychedelics and today i'm really really excited to be joined by the founder of the multi-disciplinary association for psychedelic studies i'm here with dr rick doblin rick thanks so much for being willing to come on the podcast today i am happy to do it it's really good to speak with you excellent yeah thanks so much and i know we're uh we've got a lot to pack in and a limited amount of time here so i'm just gonna jump straight in and uh one of the first things i wanted to get into is just to ask you you know uh well first of all congratulations on the phase three um mdma clinical trial uh that's awesome news to see come out and especially the publicity to see that on the front page the new york times and you know all these sort of things um that's quite an achievement so congratulations to you and maps and everybody that's been involved in that um that was really amazing to see yeah thank you very much yeah the nature medicine published our paper about our first phase three studies but i was joking with our staff that um we have to stop with all this publicity because it's getting expensive for me because the first new york times article was so good i went to the frame store to get it framed and it was 300 and then a week later there's another one another 300 so absolutely yeah my wife used to work in a uh framing department so i'm well aware of those costs yes they can stack up they sure can yeah same symbol you know put it in a frame but right yeah how did this turn into a multi-thousand dollar operation yeah oh and and one of the the first things i wanted to jump in here is what actually you know going you know kind of way back what's what sparked your interest in psychedelics that has led to you know the foundation of maps and this dedication to trying to promote formal research and and make these compounds you know available therapeutically uh what sparked that journey for you well political it was political political uh interests and i'd say you know i'm 67 i was um i went to college in 1971 when i was 17 years old so i was i was a bit young for a lot of the 60s to participate more directly but i was very involved in politics and reading and things like that and um i believe the propaganda about lsd you know you take it a few times you're certifiably insane you're damaging your chromosomes you're likely to have a psychotic break you could jump out of a window i didn't know any better you know i just believed all this stuff um i thought that the beatles when they first came out you know i want to hold your hand and all this kind of stuff i thought you know i just not too long before that had been through as a young boy the cuban missile crisis and the whole idea that we should duck and cover under our desk if there was going to be a nuclear war and i just thought the beatles this is ridiculous silly love songs while there's the worlds that you know at risk so i was kind of a serious guy and i just was raised to pay attention to what i would call deeper threats you know i i'm jewish and was taught about the holocaust from an early age and just just thought how horrendous that was and then as i mentioned the cuban missile crisis now the whole world could go up and then vietnam you know i was in yeah you know one of the last years of the of the lottery um you know so i i just was um of this feeling that um it's just this crazy crazy world and how could i respond you know i was interested in learning about the other you know and so in high school i went to a pretty large high school new trier outside of chicago in winnetka and they had russian so i took russian class oh cool to try to try to learn about um the russians and i i went to um russia actually the summer of 1970 my parents sent me sent me with about 60 other high school students to study russian and that kind of really was a very eye-opening trip for me because my parents had also gave me some prayer books to bring to the guys at the synagogue because those were those were illegal so my parents actually sent me on this underground adventure and my luggage which wasn't that big you know i had a bunch of these prayer books and we made all this money me and a couple of the guys um with me selling our symbols of america to the russian young kids black market kids we made thousands and thousands of rubles which were worthless outside of russia because they didn't want anybody to escape and the reason i say this is just that um i was very politically inclined and when i was in russia i was just um amazed like these people don't all want to kill me you know i it just felt like these are um you know governments that are battling but they don't represent the people and that was something that was eye-opening for me i thought you know we're against all the russians and all the russians are bad and they're all part of this system but they're being oppressed as well by their government so that was an eye-opener um also i did meet these guys at the synagogue and i said i got some books for you and they said um you know we're we're being observed let's meet at a subway station at a certain time certain place i also have all this money to give them these rubles so i did that and that was exciting um but then when i got back this guy in my russian class gave me a book to read and i loved it i loved it and i gave it back to him and he said do you realize some of this book was written under the influence of lsd and i said that's impossible you know lsd is a delusion it's a hallucination nothing good comes from it you go crazy bubble and he said no it's true um and it turned out he was right it was uh one flew over the cuckoo's nest like can keezy yes all right so that that cracked me open so i was like okay there's probably more to this and so when i first started taking lsd at college when i'm 17 and 18 in masculine um i had these um intimations of it something beyond myself you know that part of something bigger yeah you know the the we talk about that as the ego dissolution the default mode network uh decreasing inactivity and you aren't so eye-centered anymore and you're you see we're part of something much bigger and that's why these drugs have been used for thousands of years for spiritual reasons but that impressed me politically i thought okay if you feel connected it's not just things right right but if you you feel the sense of connection it's going to be harder to kill other people to commit genocide to dehumanize them to be racist to trash the environment so i thought in this crazy world um how can i make this better and i had my parents you know saying look yeah we're refugees in our history but america has been good to us and we've been able to be successful in america my dad was a doctor and they said you know but but you know think about all the rich people on the titanic as the titanic is sinking you know you can have all the money in the world so i i was encouraged to think about these political situations and so when i went to my parents and i said i want to drop out of college i want to study lsd i want you to pay for it right and it has to do with um making a better world kind of producing these mystical spiritual experiences that psychedelics are not the only way to get there but they're one of the more reliable ways to get there and so in the end my parents said okay they said we think you're making a big mistake but we think you're a stubborn guy and um we think if we help you you'll realize you're making a mistake sooner and if we don't help you you know once you realize you're gonna you're making a mistake you're not gonna want to admit it because then your parents are right and so then and then my dad was great he said you know i have the vaguest idea maybe maybe maybe a tiniest fraction of a percent you know what you need to do so we will support you so anyway yeah i had terrific parents i really absolutely terrific parents and they um i wouldn't be here without their support yeah that's that's so forward thinking and smart on their part this idea of like well if we don't support him then that just can end up just making him more stubborn it sounds like my parents yeah well the the other part of it was that you know my grandparents on one side were very poor and they had a um a small bookstore you know they were in the bronx and all and it was the classic story of you know my dad was their only child and he was um groomed from the time he was two or three years old to become a doctor yeah and you know the jewish doctor idea you know and so he was um happy as a doctor but he he just said okay i was programmed from a young age i had no choice it was the right thing for me but i i want to help my own children figure out what they want to do that's awesome that's really great yeah and and what were you know so you mentioned that you know you read this book you got some sense that there was kind of more to this and then you had personal experiences what were some of those personal experiences like in those early experiences did you have those kind of ego disillusion experiences that um i i had intimations of that which was enough but um my first sort of book that i really started reading about psychedelics was ironically i was um reading um the whole earth catalog that stephen brand put out and the they had a a small section about a book called programming and meta programming in the human biocomputer by john lilly and john lilly was paid for by the military in the 50s to develop what they called isolation chambers you know they're very interested in what happens when you reduce the sensory input what does the brain do that um and he was actually paid i think it was by the navy to develop these isolation chambers which we now have rebranded flotation tanks in a much better way and he was paid to do lsd in those things and and he tried to chart out how his brain worked under different states of consciousness in the flotation tank and that's what this book was about so i read that so friends and i started trying to do minimal sensory input environments the best that we could create and we took bunches of lsd in those and mescaline and and so i had intimations of something deeper but i i wasn't emotionally fluid i i got scared it is scary terrifying a lot of people think the ego dissolution they confuse it with physical death right you know your sense of who you are is dissipating and you think i must be dying and so people often think that they they are dying during this ego dissolution and and i didn't have the ability to really cry let out stuff like that i was emotionally constipated you could say sure and uh you know intellectually over developed emotionally underdeveloped and and so it was hard and so these experiences that i had early were um very instructive and useful but they weren't easy in any way and so i had a bunch of difficult experiences where i'd freeze up and i couldn't go any further and it would happen sooner and sooner in the trip so i had these sequence of lsd trips over the period of a couple months where they just i would freeze up earlier and earlier and and the worst example of it was um at one point you know how um a light bulb works you know it's it's electricity into something that resists the flow of it and then it just heats up and you got light right so i had this idea that the psychological resistance that i was doing under the influence of lsd was blocking the energies going through my brain and that i was um melting my brain you know and then i i had this um nasal drip and i'm like oh my god that's my brain like dripping out dripping down your throat yeah and i'm just like oh my god this is so scary so you know part of you is like is this really happening part of you is like oh my god this is my fear is going wild um and and i kept feeling like i had to overcome this and this was after the backlash against the 60s psychedelics were criminalized everything was shut down there's uh the research was shut down i mean all over the world nixon is like saying leary's dangerous man in america and stuff and i just was feeling like i had to purify myself so i could be more of an effective advocate um and so i went to the guidance counselor at college and he um took me seriously unbelievably you know 1972 he didn't say we're kicking you out of school we're calling the police he's like yeah this lsd stuff it's worth exploring and however unbelievably lucky i was multiple times in my life but this guy gave me a book to read which changed my life and it was realms of the human unconscious observations from lsd research by stan groff yes now that book wasn't published until 1975 and so my guidance counselor had a guy a manuscript copy i mean who would predict it he got it from stan so um i read this book and it everything came together reading this book and because it was um science so i trusted science i didn't i didn't trust religion i didn't trust culture i trusted science um but it was looking at realms of the human unconscious it was looking at spiritual experiences ego dissolution experiences there you know childhood other memories coming to the surface it was looking at that and that so he kind of divided into three sort of categories freudian which he would sort of basically say is you know what happens in your life you know these kind of dynamics and freud's theories a lot of them were wrong but still you know then otto rank he talked about birth trauma about how modern psychology is kind of overlooked the imprinting that we get as humans from going from free-floating in the uterus to being born yeah and how that's you think you're about to die and and there are a lot of people die in childbirth and you know a lot of challenging how those are imprints and then he he said beyond that beyond this sort of death rebirth struggle is this collective unconscious the jungian face so this was terrific i i but here he was talking about the spiritual experience that i felt had political implications but coming at from a scientific perspective which was great but what most compelled me to be um excited about this was that there was the reality check on all these theories was therapy is people getting better can you know how do you use this to help people yeah and so i was just very interested in in that and and that seemed to me like um all of this is the key okay i can if i can become an underground psychedelic therapist this would be a life's mission i can try to bring back psychedelic research i can try to become a psychedelic therapist i can go through my own psychedelic therapy and it has all these political implications so i asked my guidance counselor if he could um connect me give me stan's address so i could write stan a letter and he did all right so i'm a confused 18 year old um and stan's md phd at hopkins and he's doing all this lsd research but the lsd researchers shut down and he's unbelievably he wrote me back wow and he said he said that he was doing um a workshop in california that summer he invited me to that workshop so i hitchhiked across america i got to um you know go to this workshop with stan i did um and joan halifax who's uh he was married to at the time um i did a primal therapy intensive for three weeks for you know screaming about your birth drama i did um a month-long encounter group and all of that um didn't leave me where i wanted to be i i wasn't quote enlightened you know when i had the delusion you just the more drugs you do the faster you get enlightened right of course and more it's better more exactly jason it seemed logical at the time yep but but then i started realizing i had completely underestimated the importance of integration and uh you know it was a delusion that the more drugs you take in fact sometimes the more drugs you take you run further away from enlightenment or from maturity or however we want to call it because you got to do the integration of the work of the things that you discovered so um anyway that ended up into 10 years of building getting in the construction business and kind of getting grounded in that way and then 10 years later in 82 i went back to college as a freshman and my first semester i did a workshop with stan groff wow at um called the mystical quest i hadn't seen him in 10 years and um it was at that workshop where well my goal for the semester was design a curriculum to make me into a psychedelic therapist an undergraduate curriculum and um and new college you can create a lot of independent study all of that and gotcha but while i was while i was there this woman debbie harlow came by and said that there was a new drug called adam and it was a great drug for therapy and it helped you feel love it helped you feel connected to people made you better listener all this stuff and i was like oh it's great you know i already feel love i've got a great girlfriend i'm in love i'm you know i'm a good listener i i think highly of myself i'm already good yeah yeah and you know i saw a group of people sitting around in a circle doing mdma talking to each other and i was like you know that seems trivial you know you take a bunch of lsd back in the old days um you know a standard dose of lsd was 250 micrograms you know where it's like an existential crisis and there's hours where you have a hard time talking you know one of my favorite albums from the 60s is by david crosby oh man it was a solo album and the title of it was if i could only remember my name yes so that that's that's the lsd story i'm like who am i i wouldn't bring you in a whole other world yeah just the sledgehammer gets taken to the ego and you spin out and you have a lot to think about yeah i i highly recommend that album to people it's phenomenal if i could only remember my name by david crosby but um but i saw these people doing mdma and i was like so what they're talking to each other no big deal but i like to say that i was stupid enough to underestimate it but smart enough to buy something yeah yeah yeah and so i went home to my girlfriend and we had an amazingly profound and deep interaction it was just shocking to me how much i had mis uh understood the the power of it yeah um and i thought this drug has incredible therapeutic potential but this was during nancy reagan and ronald reagan an escalation of the drug war this was 1982 and unfortunately in some ways that mdma adam as it was known in the therapeutic circles had leaked out of these therapeutic circles and was being used now in um party surgical circles as ecstasy so anyway it was doomed we knew it was doomed and so i started getting involved politically so that's sort of the genesis of my political work in the world yeah well and that's so fascinating there's so many little perfect things that lined up for you that's just amazing as you tell that story these it i mean the fact that your your uh counselor that you went to didn't just shut things down and kick you out is really incredible i mean especially at that time yeah well i mean this was a new school new college that had been started in the 60s experimental college no grades written evaluations um now if you go to most guidance counselors at schools yeah they'll kick you out or you know even even if you talk about marijuana right you know so yeah it was just incredibly lucky i just had a series of lucky things that have led to me to think you know i'm not in a concentration camp i've not been incinerated by a nuclear weapon i'm not in vietnam i'm not in jail i should use my freedom to work on the best idea i have to help humanity as a whole which i think is like lemmings going over a cliff destroying the environment you know we see what's going on in israel and palestine right now there's you know i mean there's just the rise of authoritarianism the rise of violence the decline of democracy uh in many places democracy threatened here in the united states it's a terrifying situation and so but but it was terrifying back then so even now i would say in some ways even more so but yeah it was my way to try to make a better world and that's what i've been doing for now since it was 71 that i started doing lsd it's 72 where i decided to vote my life that's 49 years ago um and it still makes sense that's a good thing and not only that but it's making sense a little bit more to the world too absolutely yeah and and more and more you know the point of this conversation and this mini series on this podcast is pointing out how much we've learned over the past you know not even just in the past century but even going back thousands of years but trying to um just point out how far we've come even in relatively a short amount of time now the our scientific understanding of a lot of uh what we deem psychedelic compounds you know we still don't understand a lot but we understand a hell of a lot more than we did um as far as why these experiences take you know the forums that they do and their potential therapeutic applications it's it's really incredible and this actually leads to uh one sort of philosophical question i wanted to ask you which is how do you how do you think about the word psychedelic like when you're when you're thinking about chemicals and everything what makes something a psychedelic okay jason i'm so glad you asked that question um so psychedelic well first off when i started maps which was in 1986 this is after you know a previous non-profit that i started to organize the therapeutic community to um fight against the criminalization of of mdma um and that was called earth metabolic design lab it had been connected to buckminster fuller oh wow and and it was for alternative energy a friend of mine had started the branch of it in florida but he wasn't using it and i said hey alternative energy that counts psychedelics mental energy you know can i use this non-profit so any case um when i started maps i knew i wanted to use the word psychedelic in the title yeah and even though it had all the baggage from the 60s and counterculture and all of that i felt that we want to reclaim it the same way you know queer has been reclaimed for you're gay or queer you know so so what i've done is um and i wanted to put out like a flag to everybody that was interested in psychedelics because so many people were using psychoactive yes yeah uh you know running away from it so i felt i have to use psychedelic now psychedelic in the original meaning is mind manifesting and so the way we have interpreted psychedelic it's not just linked to drugs so stan groff has developed holotrophic breath work which is a way through hyperventilation to produce experiences that are somewhat similar to lsd and can be therapeutic so holotrobec breathwork is psychedelic ketamine is called a dissociative anesthetic and um one-tenth of the anesthetic dose more or less is a psychedelic dose so under certain circumstances ketamine is a psychedelic mdma a lot of people have said oh it's not really like the classic psychedelics and that's very true the classic psychedelics dissolve the ego dissolve the default mode network mdma doesn't do that that's why we could see a bunch of people sitting in a circle talking to each other because they still knew who they were they could still remember their name they could still remember the other people's names they could still be interested in them they could have a logical conversation so some people have said mdma should be properly called an uh intactogen to touch within or in pathogen something that promotes empathy um and um for me at least i think having a broader definition of psychedelic uh makes a lot of sense and so that also means when you start a nonprofit also you have to be really careful what you say your mission is because you need to follow your mission so by interpreting the word psychedelic in as broad a way as possible we can do research with breath work we can do research with ketamine with mdma with lsd so that that's my response i think psychedelic and because it means mind manifesting in its original definition it does um allow for this broader interpretation and i think what we've been able to do is now psychedelic is kind of a cool word it's not like this terrible word the you know hippies who protested the war who jumped off of buildings because they were on high on lsd you know it's psychedelic has different connotations now absolutely yeah i mean even uh people that may be sort of like the most conservative people you could imagine may still use the term psychedelic to describe uh you know paisleys on fabric on clothes or something yeah it's like these it has really permeated the culture and i'm really glad that that's the approach you take because that's really how i think of it too i always go back to that old definition mind manifesting what are what are activities compounds whatever that bring things you know to the forefront to manifest the mind bring things out for you to confront deal with integrate examine whatever um and yeah that can be so many things breathe work i even lump sometimes like lucid dreaming and other things yes totally right and so that that's a really good point which is that we all experience non-ordinary states of consciousness during our dreams yeah and so that you know and and another way to think about lsd is like a waking dream where things come to the surface i mean it's it's different than a waking dream but yeah i i think that normalizes it when you start reminding people of dreaming yeah absolutely and the symbology and things that can come about representing different ideas and aspects of things going on in your psyche abs i think that's that's really great and this actually segues perfectly into uh one of the things i really wanted to make sure to confront considering that this podcast is going to be promoted towards people that maybe don't have a lot of experience with this which is what are some of the most common misconceptions that you commonly run into uh that that people often have about psychedelics well i'd say the most important misconception is that the psychedelic by itself is enough to produce good experiences therapeutic experiences uh spiritual experiences recreational experiences that the experiences are not in the drug they're the drug and the context and the relationship that people have with the drug it's that combination so when we talk about mdma assisted psychotherapy for ptsd it's therapy it's mdma assisted therapy it's not therapy assisted mdma it's mdma assisted therapy the therapy is the most important thing the human relationship the drug makes that more effective so i think a lot of people think the power is in the drugs you hear all sorts of people saying well these are even advocates say oh the mushrooms told me to do this or the mushrooms told me it told me to do that and i think that that's we all want some degree of certainty like oh some expert nature you know for some people it's it's a you know a guy in a white beard who's up in the clouds god you know other people it's nature or whatever but we all want outside validation outside certainty but i think that's false yep you know a delusion you know so it's not the mushrooms is telling you this it's it's we are the mushrooms is releasing yes us to look deeper into ourselves and and we are sort of telling ourselves this with the aid of this mushrooms i mean a lot of people are taking now synthetic psilocybin that's all the research so that's what's in the mushroom but it's not from them anyway i think that this uh misconception the other is um a lot of people have this idea of one dose miracle cure ah yeah yeah you know um that was my thought okay i'm gonna take lsd i'll i'll be enlightened you know and yeah it didn't work the first time but i'll just try to do a heroic dose and you'll be good yeah so i think that's a big misconception then so so that's like overestimating the benefits you could say yeah bunch of misconceptions miracle cure or it's all in the drug you take the drug you're you have spiritual experience or therapeutic i'd say the the other side of it is overestimating the risks so there's a lot of myths about you know lsd causing chromosome damage lsd um making you certifiably insane after you take it mdma causing substantial brain damage and neurotoxicity or holes in your brain or mdma draining spinal fluid um i'm like oh my god how do you think that works right yeah draining how's the physiology uh line up for that yeah and how come mdma is the only thing that does this right and all of the very similar chemicals that your uh body's already handling don't cause that yeah it's unbelievable well this is a little funny story i know we're running out of time but but i'll just tell very briefly so the um my wife and i um you know got married in 1993 but our first date was 1989 and um i i think she didn't think of it as a date i i sort of did but um so we're at lunch first time we were in a class together at school and so um and she just wanted to talk to me about a mushroom experience she had in college but during this conversation she's like um you know this is we're just meeting each other stuff but you know i would never want to have a relationship with you or get married to you or anything like that because you've done so much lsd you're going to have deformed babies and i was like oh my god i saw our joker so i said well look let me defend my sperm yeah right yeah let me go to bed i'm not well this is not like before babies but anyway that's a myth so there's a lot of myths about the risks of these drugs as well yeah and um in trying to think the the way to phrase this so spinning off of the the risk you know the the sort of exaggerated um risk side what are some of the legitimate risks around psychedelics that particularly for like recreational users or casual users um that aren't doing it in any sort of controlled context um yeah what are some of the you know the actual legitimate risks that that through all the research that maps and other groups have done has kind of come to light right well um for those people that have not seen my ted talk and if you haven't i encourage you to see it but um i spoke about a woman that i worked with in 1984 who had ptsd and that was the first time that i ever worked with mdma with somebody who had ptsd and i saw her get better um and now marcellus now she's one of our top therapists and she later became a therapist and she trains other therapists but um the reason that i got in touch with her and this relates to your question about risks is that um a friend of mine um asked me for some mdma so i sold him some mdma this is back before it was illegal and in 1984. and he did it with his girlfriend marcela who i did not know never met her and under the influence of mdma doing it together with this friend of mine she remembered prior situation where she was raped and almost killed and that came to the surface in a way she she'd been in mental institutions before she'd been under treatment for that it had been very terrible situation but she thought she was now back in some kind of a good balance so and she takes mdma in a romantic situation with somebody that she cares about but these memories came to the surface and she wasn't prepared to deal with it and she felt that she was in danger again of self-harm of suicide so she checked herself into a mental institution in order not to hurt herself and and they gave her some drugs that are same as kind of drugs she'd gotten before and she knew they weren't going to help her and she got out of the mental institution and she was um worse than before because she thought you know the traditional psychiatry has nothing for me so that's why my friend asked if i would work with her and that led to this but okay so one of the risks is difficult emotions coming to the surface that you're not prepared for so another example this is like 15 years ago but two women contacted us in the same week with different stories one of them said um they both had similar stories both had taken mdma at a rave yeah one said i went to my to a rave with my friends and we were all out just to have fun and i remembered prior sexual abuse and my friends didn't want to talk about it you know i i knew that they were just out they have fun so i just said i'm not going to pay attention to it i'm going to stuff my feelings down and um you know she said now it's months ago and i still feel worse you know it's not dealing with stuff is a big problem this other woman said i went to a rave um i took mdma i was with some friends um i remember prior sexual abru abuse a girlfriend and i we went off into the corner we talked about it we worked through it an hour later i felt much better i went back to the party i danced i had a great time now i feel a lot better and i think mdma could be great for ptsd it's from sexual abuse so i'd say one of the biggest risks is psychologically yeah now i would say that the classic psychedelics like lsd psilocybin mescaline you know ayahuasca ibogaine they're riskier psychologically than mdma because mdma doesn't dissolve the ego it reduces fear even though things do emerge in these situations where i've described it is there are risks but i think so the first thing is you have to be prepared for the range of emotions when you take it yeah you shouldn't just say i want this slice of emotions because then you're suppressing things that can make you worse so that's the psychological risk story um with the classic psychedelics as i said before you can feel like you're dying you can feel like you're going crazy you need support and then people have done horrible things killed themselves or killed others or while they're under the influence of psychedelics in these fearful states super super rare but physiologically the classic psychedelics are safer than mdma they don't hurt your brain you can't overdose on them they're they're not going to cause you you know but mdma increases blood pressure we have stories about people taking mdma and dancing all night at raves and getting hyperthermia overheating and then dying then we have on the other side that story's been out and so people think i got to drink fluids right to cool down and then people drink too much water they dilute their blood they die from what's called hyponatremia oh man so um there's a remote possibility people that are epileptic that psychedelics particularly more the classic psychedelics can trigger a seizure so i'd say that there are risks i would encourage people if they're interested in the risks of mdma one of the things that we've had to do in order to you know develop it as a medicine is we've had to survey the entire world scientific literature on mdma and summarize it in what's called an investigator's brochure so that's posted for free on our website so if you go to the maps.org and you go under research and you go down to mdma at the bottom of that page it says investigators brochure so that's a summary of all the world's literature and a lot of it is on risks so that's i'd say the best place to get a real survey of the risks of mdma to understand the risks of lsd or psilocybin um again i think it's more psychological than physiological yeah but but there's books that you could read about those we we did not make a um investigator's brochure um about lsd or psilocybin yeah and another thing i'll add to that too is maps has a just a really great library of scientific literature for people to check out that's nicely organized i've referenced it so many times throughout my life oh great yes yeah it's excellent in general just the resources in and you know i mentioned offline that i've been following maps since i was like 14 years old primarily because i come from a family my dad was mentally ill and i had an early experience with friends of mine where i was their babysitter the first time they did psychedelic mushrooms and the things they were talking about i was like this isn't crazy like what is going on you know and i was trying to wrap my head around psychedelics because i was like it's not as you know bizarre as i thought it was hallucinations are not what i thought they were you know all this sort of stuff and so early on thinking like uh you know what's going on i learned about maps studied all these things learned about the therapeutic potential and then i was like oh my gosh like my dad is a perfect candidate for you know trying to get help from these substances and that's become a lifelong passion of mine and i mentioned before we started that finally he's he's started experimenting with ketamine therapy which has been very beneficial for like really severe depression that he deals with related to ptsd and now we live in a state where medical use of psilocybin has just been approved so we're interested in kind of exploring that um and so uh seeing the website of maps evolve over all of this time has been fascinating it's such a great resource and all of this i know we've got just three minutes here but to wrap everything okay oh well thank you i really appreciate that and and this still you know it segues nicely which is you know um what are you excited about for the future of maps you know like i mentioned at the very beginning of our conversation you just finished this phase three trial with mdma and i know mdma gets a lot of the spotlight because that's he's sort of on the forefront of drug approval and everything it's really farther along but now psilocybin you know is obviously getting a lot of talk especially states are starting to change laws and now that oregon has done what they did a lot of other states are looking to that and thinking you know maybe we want to you know do that too and and have medical psilocybin use um so what's yeah what's uh uh kind of on the horizon for both yourself and maps well uh let me mention what's happening for us in oregon yeah so you know it's very important that these uh decrim legalization types scenarios work out well so in oregon we're trying to um we have psychedelic harm reduction yes which the zendo project is training people to um do peer support for other people that are having difficult psychedelic trips or we do trained therapists as well so we're trying to do more public education in oregon which is why i'm glad to be talking with you now we're also from uh compassionate use the fda while we're doing phase three the fda has a program called expanded access which means that people can get access to drugs before they're approved while they're still being researched but because they're not approved yet people have to take the risk that these are drugs that you know they're not fully approved but also people have to pay for the treatment themselves because there's no control group so that the um data is not useful for us to make it into a medicine so we have one expanded access site in portland oregon that's going to open up oh great and and then also what we've done so far so we just published a nature medicine this paper that was about our first of two phase three studies and the paper was from you know the study was tremendously successful um but you know and and i think we're on a track for the first half of 2023 to get mdma approved by the fda as a prescription medicine um you know we still have a lot of work to go you know we can't say that but but it's all individual therapy and we have two therapists for one person um usually a male female team the lead person needs to be licensed to do a therapist the second person could be a student an intern something like that to keep the cost down but it's all individual therapy so we've just gotten a grant that's for a group therapy study that will take place at the portland oregon va and that's going to be really exciting it's going to be three cohorts of six veterans there'll be four therapists for six veterans and we'll explore what can be done in a group therapy setting i personally don't think it's going to be as successful as individual therapy yeah but it it still was likely to be quite successful and it could be uh the substantial fraction of the cost of individual therapy so you know so that's what i'm excited about and it does happen to be taking place in oregon um the the other things that i'm really excited about are that um we want to globalize what we're doing we're trying to do big fundraise now to go to europe i would encourage if people want to become maps we're looking to expand our monthly donors a special program for that so just encourage people if they want to support this you know we have raised over 110 million in our 35 years but in the last two years the for-profit companies with psychedelics have raised over a billion dollars yes but a lot of them are against drug policy reform or they're against what's happening in oregon they see it as a threat um or they are um you know trying to patent everything and block other people to do it so we we would like to continue in a non-profit context without these kind of financial pressures so um so i'm excited we're going to try to do big fundraise for um globalizing so we want to go where the pain the pain is not where the money is although we do want to go to europe and the u.s of course that's where the main money is for pharmaceutical companies and japan but you know we've been in touch with people from palestine there was actually a group that we wanted to work with center for survivors of center for victims of torture that's what it's called so we're trying to train palestinian therapists as well now of course with the war everybody's uh the increase in ptsd is going to be terrible i know we have we've got um south africa rwanda somaliland bosnia armenia we're trying all sorts of different places to do research but what we're starting tonight is a a new approach to training therapists so it's going to be 300 therapists from around the world 100 hours virtually and so tonight is when that new approach starts so we want to train thousands of thousands of therapists so i'm very excited about the expansion of our therapist training program and um we're also starting to plan ahead to the idea of psychedelic clinics and how is that going to go so we already have hundreds in america of ketamine clinics because ketamine is not legal for um treatment of depression uh but what we're seeing more and more well first off it's a disaster not a disaster it's a sub-optimal way where ketamine was approved without therapy yeah as if yeah yeah here take take this drug and you know that's that's been one of my biggest complaints about what my dad has gone through is that it's it's treatment but there's you know they suggest follow-up with therapy but there's it's not married into the program i think you're so right i mean you know they think that they can make more money just giving ketamine to more people the other part is that ketamine experiences fade pretty quickly yes people people need a lot of repeat sessions so that's good for the company selling you the ketamine but it's not the best for the patients and when you combine ketamine with therapy you get better outcomes and so what we're seeing and you need less ketamine yeah but but not a lot of the places are doing that so what we do see though is that those people that do work with ketamine that are interested in um providing it with therapy they want to be cross-trained and they want to learn how to give mdma they want to learn how to give psilocybin they want to learn how to give kind of mean where is each drug got its unique best use and niche and and that'll of course vary with each individual patient and so what we're trying to look forward to is expanding our training program to have a module on ketamine a module on psilocybin right now it's just focused on mdma and to be thinking about these future ketamine or psychedelic clinics because the therapists want to be psychedelic therapists they don't want to be i'm a mdma therapist i'm an lsd therapist i'm a psilocybin therapist i'm academic therapist they want to be cross-trained in all these modalities so that's happening i'm also very excited about the work with the veterans administration we're about to start inside the bronx va inside the loma linda with va the portland oregon is maybe six months away because we still have to go through fda and get all the regulatory approvals but it was since 1990 that i've been trying to get the va to do mdma research offering the money and they would the therapists and patients in touch with the therapist and and psychiatrists in touch with the patients wanted new things they know there's new treatments that they need doesn't work for everybody what they've got but the political people have squashed it now that's changed yeah so now after 31 years of effort we're about to see mdma going into the va settings that's super exciting we've treated over 40 veterans none of them have been referred by the va but we haven't treated any active duty soldiers so we're trying to do that that would be a big breakthrough so i'm excited about that the idea here is that the treatment should be delivered the closer to the trauma yeah yes yeah you know now a lot of people are resilient and recover but you know for people that have gotten ptsd which is chronic which is over six months why wait you know the people in our phase three study at ptsd for an average of 14 years but one-third of them have had ptsd for over 20 years yeah and we had one person that was a vietnam vet that was able to get better after almost 50 years of ptsd that's that man that's exactly thinking about my dad that's the kind of stuff that gets me excited because he's example like that of 45 50 years yeah and your brain gets into these patterns and it gets very hard to get out of those deep threats yeah and psychedelics produce um break those patterns and they also produce neuroplasticity where you can actually be remolding rewiring your brain and different routing circuits for different things um you you you change it's called for memories for traumatic memory it's called fear extinction and memory reconsolidation so i think there's just you know enormous um potential here um for so many people and so i'm just excited to sort of move to that next step of but i don't want to get ahead of ourselves we're still two years from fda approval of course yeah yeah absolutely but it's it's like incredible i mean this has been such a great lesson in persistence you know to just keep pushing forward keep taking those next steps uh you know the va thing that that's taken 30 over 30 years to come around but just continuing to chip away bit by bit um you know to get to that next step um it's it's amazing and the targets you know the the global focus i mean i'm really excited because you know my wife is a mental health therapist this stuff we talk about quite a bit but i i certainly see psychedelics used in the proper therapeutic context as being a significant revolution in psychiatric medicine and it's not new i mean in the 50s there were manuals written about you know how do we integrate you know some of these compounds into therapeutic sessions and so seeing you target some of the populations of of trauma survivors that really need the most help that are going through unspeakable um experiences and having to integrate that and figure out how to move forward in their lives um i can only imagine it's going to be just immensely impactful and i have a lot of um respect for that so i'm really happy to hear that and um yeah in general rick thanks so much for you know taking the time today to to speak with me on all this and i mean i could speak for hours about all this there's so many questions and things that i want to tease out but i i appreciate you being willing to carve out this time and go into all of this and i hope that everyone listening that this has been um you know informative that yeah you know provide some insight into kind of where this has kind of come from and and kind of where it seems to be going um it's it's extremely exciting wow thank you jason yeah we're at a cultural turning point for sure and um i i don't think we're if we do it wisely which we are trying our best i don't think there's going to be a backlash like there was in the 60s i think we we will successfully integrate it i think the oregon psilocybin initiative has got a real good chance of working out well and and the world needs it so yep more than more than ever more than ever so thank you yeah for helping me with the public education part of it yeah absolutely rick well yeah thanks so much everyone tuning in thanks so much for listening um and if you want to learn more about isn't life curious just find us at isn't life curious.com if you want to learn more about maps really easy just go to maps.org and you'll find them there and all the resources that we've mentioned and so thanks so much everyone and stay curious and take it easy bye

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 2q4VZUOGk2I (https://youtu.be/2q4VZUOGk2I) ===

[Music] I I'll just I guess introduce myself by saying I think of myself as a counterculture drug using criminal trying to go legit um I would like to um thank Ben and all the other organizers of breaking convention for putting all this together it's a real pleasure to come to a conference that I'm not organizing and that um I can stay up really late at night and not woring being there at 9: in the morning and um so what I'm going to be talking to you about today is really the mainstreaming of psychedelics and how we're going to try to do that and how we've been working on that for essentially I've been working on that since 1972 um basically we're making MDMA into a medicine um for those of you that um were here before with the conversation with Ben and Julie Holland um I want to say that what we're doing is uh becoming more than a dream and this um printer this was something that uh the day that Julie and I did MDMA together um I was actually working on u a letter to uh business week to a magazine that had an article about uh MDMA and I was sort of saying that even though it had been criminalized it was going to be criminalized that we were um going to work really hard to make the therapeutic use of MD may become more than a dream and when I went to print out the the letter I carried with me this printer uh the printer went haywire and all that it came out on this page was become more than a dream and so I I've uh saved that and I've framed it and it's in my office um later that day after this printer went haywire I was kind of looking at the printer and I discovered that I dropped a hit of blot acid in it so as they say only users lose drugs so maybe it was the printer on acid but this has been sort of the theme for all these years that um we're trying to become more than a dream and anchor it and and get it grounded um there's interest not just in uh medicalizing MDMA but in understanding how it works this was a call to action by uh two neuroscientists at Stanford and they wrote this article last year in cell and they said all the tools of Neuroscience have to be focused on MDMA and it's because the world's populations need more compassion and empathy for one another the study of MDMA provides one small but potentially important step towards reaching that goal um we were Ben and I um and John Bisson were at welcome trust um on Thursday and uh they were actually saying that we could submit a group collaborative Grant application to study mechanisms of action of MDMA they're not interested in funding phase three but they um not to say that they'll give the grant but we're going to try to work on a study that really does look at mechanisms of action of MDMA for empathy compassion and and other things that it does um there's other reasons to be looking at uh MDMA in addition to Healing individuals with trauma it's about healing societies because we've learned through epigenetics that there are ways that trauma and anxiety is passed on from generation to generation and we see that a lot in the world of conflicts that persist hundreds thousands of years sometimes pass down from generation to generation and how do we break those cycles and one of the things that's in a sense beautiful about epigenetics is that in addition to passing things down that are negative you can correct things and correct these kind of multigenerational traumas within one generation sometimes and this was Dr Richard Rockefeller explaining this at the Commonwealth Club um now we've been actually working since 1986 since I started map so it's uh 31 years now and it took us until November 29th uh 2016 to have a meeting with the FDA to present our Phase 2 data which is the small pilot studies that are done basically to figure out how to design the larger studies and so this meeting went really really well and FDA said that we could start this special protocol assessment process what they said was that we communicated to them a compelling case that we had learned enough in phase two to move to phase three and so what then is an option now basically Maps is a nonprofit pharmaceutical company focused on psychedelics and marijuana um in 1986 when I started Maps I didn't realize that no nonprofit had ever made a drug into a medicine um and that happened in 1999 for the first time and that was the abortion pill ru46 so controversial drugs abandon by the pharmaceutical industry now are being made into medicines through nonprofit organizations um the special protocol assessment is a process whereby you don't it's an optional process but when you engage in it with the FDA they review every element of your protocol design your statistical analysis plan and critique it as are going along and then at the end of this if they say they agree then essentially what they're saying is that if you use this design and develop evidence for safety and efficacy that they will make it into a medicine the only loophole is that you don't Identify some new risk during the course of your phase three studies so we have been now going through this process ever since this uh November 29th meeting and the last um Step In This was um June 12th maybe the last step so we submitted a revised protocol based on our prior discussions where FDA agreed on pretty much everything that we are proposing and FDA has till uh July 27th to get back to us so we're very much hoping that um this will come to a conclusion would be a open up so in January 23rd is when we submitted uh the protocol March 8th is when we got the first response and it identified a bunch of areas that we had to work on um May 11th we had uh the second meeting with FDA um and then May 30th we got the official minutes so they don't permit you to record the call they make the official minutes then we were able to revise the protocol June 12th and by uh also on the 22nd this is sort of um trying for the Home Run um the top priority projects for FDA are called breakthrough therapies these are therapies that are drugs that are being developed for for serious and life-threatening illnesses for which there's a large body of treatment resistant patients and they've got nowhere else to turn so if you can have your drug declared a breakthrough therapy what that means is the FDA is being is saying this is our priority and they will expedite the development of this drug they will provide senior FDA officials to help you in the design of your phase three protocols which we've already received and when it comes to the data they will help you uh expedite the analysis and the review of the phase three data so we have submitted this application on June 22nd so many pharmaceutical companies ask for this that they now have a procedure where you have to uh submit a two-page review of your data and then they'll tell you whether you can submit a full application so we have already done that they said go ahead with the full application so the 27th is when we're going to hear about U whether we've come to agreement on the phase 3 design and August 22nd is when we have to hear from FDA about breakthrough therapy um once that's done then we're going to start negotiations with the European medicines agency and also with nice trying to understand about the payers so we anticipate um starting phase three somewhere in um March or April in the United States for FDA and we hope a year after that somewhere in 2019 we'll be able to start phase three uh in Europe and hopefully we'll um we're budgeting more or less a year to come to agreement with with EMA and nice um now there's always you know ants at the picnic um so um so the question is um uh which I'm asked a lot which is what is the election of uh president Trump and the Attorney General George session what's it going to do to your drug development plans and it's it's a reasonable question to ask but the because as we know Attorney General Sessions is sort of a throwback and he wants to bring back the drug war he wants to go after medical marijuana he wants to reimpose mandatory minimums he wants to throw lots more people in jail um but it's important to note that the uh Trump Administration has not yet gone after medical marijuana and nor marijuana legalization States and I think if they do so they're going to lose a lot of support so it's not clear exactly what they're going to do but the thing that I'd like to share with you is that actually the election of trump has made our job easier not harder and the reason is because Trump has talked a lot about his support for veterans this is something that we were able to get from the VA um as of a year ago um there were 868 th000 veterans that were receiving disability payments from the VA for post-traumatic stress disorder and there's another 600,000 almost more that are receiving disability payments for mental health related issues uh depression anxiety so the burden to the veterans of War which is one of the most um underemphasized costs of war is enormous and so we're now estimating that it's at least $17 billion doar a year that the VA is spending on disability payments to these veterans with PTSD and when you add in the other 600,000 it's 29 billion a year and the numbers that I'm using to be conservative the last time the VA put out an official statistic of what is the average annual cost of disability payments it was 2004 it was 20,000 per subject so we're using 2004 cost estimates to come up with this 29 billion a year and to put this in perspective Trump has talked about enlarging the military budget by 10% which is $54 billion so more than half of that amount that he's wanting to give to the military is already being paid for disability payments for emotional costs of war and we have a lot of support from Veterans for this work so I think the fact that we're working with veterans is going to make it very difficult um for us to be shut down for political reasons we've also gotten really good media and we've been working on this very actively and so I think the public education in many ways is more important than the research because we saw when the public attitudes turned against psychedelics the research was blocked and forbidden so now I think we're at a state where we've been able through careful um media work to um get widespread um media and the um the ones on the right here are the Red State Stars and Stripes Army times Fox News military so we've been sort of getting bipartisan media support for this work because of the veterans um we're also um working with some of the leading VA therapists who have developed non-drug psychotherapies for PTSD and they know that they leave a large number of people treatment resistant so the first study that's already underway is with Candace Monson at Ryerson University and it's called cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy and what that means is conjoint means couples therapy so it's couples therapy where one member has PTSD and it affects the relationship and we've been able to get permission to give both members of the couple MDMA and it's been fantastic because that's the first time actually since 1990 when Rick stman got permission to do work with uh DMT that we've been able to have more than one person receive uh psychedelic at the same time and also we can never medicalize couples's therapy because in order to medicalize a drug it has to be for a recognized disorder and so difficult relationships are not a recog disorder although we know how problematic they can be so this is kind of a backend around to coup's therapy and I think once we start talking about the value of uh MDMA for couples's therapy there'll be a lot more interest in it as well a lot more mainstream support so we are primarily focusing on PTSD but we have a bunch of measures of the strength of the relationship and so far uh it's looking incredibly well um we're also working with Barbara Roth bomb at Emory and one of the main um develop Vel opers uh one of the main therapies is called prolonged exposure for PTSD and the theory is that you just repeat the trauma over and over and over and eventually you get desensitized to it but it often ret traumatizes people some people it will help but it's more like the anti-depressants it kind of deadens you to it it doesn't really help you process and move through it and there's also a large number of people that are treatment resistant to this and drop out so we're blending MDMA with uh prolonged exposure uh this study will proba start in about 6 months and so we're sort of seeding um the key opinion leaders in the treatment world for research for PTSD connected with the military now the other big part of this I'll just say not connected to this slide is that Trump is trying to deregulate a lot of things and so it's good for maps and bad for America but in the um drug development process they're trying to make it easier so I to drugs to make it through the system so I think all of these factors mean that I feel that we are even in these uh dark days we are able to move this through the system and it's actually going to be facilitated rather than hurt um we had to standardize our method of therapy and so we've developed this treatment manual the essence of it is that we are not the guides we never use the word guide the person's unconscious is the guide what comes up under the experience of MDMA the therapist follow and support but we don't use guided imagery we don't sort of say now you must talk about the trauma it's more supportive Psychotherapy and within an 8 Hour session with male female teams there's enough time people do find their way to talk about the trauma in many different unique patterns but it always seems to happen so this is our treatment manual it's on the website if any of you wanted to take a look at it um we have developed a training program for therapists because that's really very key we've now trained 84 therapists 42 male female co-therapist teams and the first part is this 14-hour online course then we have a weeklong session where it's residential where people are mostly watching videotapes of therapy sessions and then referring to the treatment manual and in addition to the treatment manual we have what's called adherence criteria so it sort of simplifies the treatment manual and independent Raiders that we've trained watch the videotapes and sort of give feedback to the therap on how well they're adhering to the principles in the manual so we teach them that um then we have some home study things they have to do holotropic breath work or they can pick any kind of other non-ordinary state of consciousness approach then we have another week-long in-person training where we talk about working in teams because again it's a male female team we talk about difficult patience bodyw workk and U other issues and then after all of this we really don't feel like this is enough training so we have this um part e and optional therapy so we went to the FDA and we said really we want to give MDMA to therapists as part of their training but we can't do that because it's an illegal drug the only way we can do that is in the context of a psychotherapeutic process and so the um FDA said here's how to design a protocol we'll work with you and so we were able to get a protocol it's psychological effects in healthy vol taking MDMA in a therapeutic setting and so we can limit who's in the study to therapist in our training program and we can take people from all over the world and have done so already and then this part e is that the final step and this has added a million dollars to our costs is that the real way you train therapists is that they work with a patient and then you give them feedback and so again because it's MDMA we can only do that in the context of a protocol so we've worked it out with FDA we just got permission last week we're going to have a open label Phase 2 training protocol which means that uh there's no double blind everybody's getting MDMA Maps is paying all the costs but the first team the the first patient that these co-therapist teams work with some of them have already worked on phase two but if they've not worked on phase two they will get one patient open label for us to watch the videotapes and in real time give them feedback over the course of this treatment of this one PA patient and then we feel that that will make uh these therapist teams ready for um phase three so it's still minimal training but we are finding so many enthusiastic people that have had a lot of their own background that are coming to be in the training programs that were fairly hopeful it's going to work really well um then you get the certificate um there's two certificates I don't have the other one here the other one is going to be in rainbow colors this is for um this is for those that decided not to take the m ma um um this was our investigator meeting in April uh we were planning this was right before psychedelic science um so a little bit of the data so we have 107 patients that we've treated uh in these different sites Israel United States Switzerland and uh Canada 107 PTSD patients um we've explored all of these different doses I had the idea that lowd do MDMA would be the ideal control condition for full dose MDMA that there would be confusion about the doses and that would be producing a double blind and what we tried to do is find which dose would cause enough confusion but wouldn't be enough therapeutic that it would be hard to find a difference between the two groups so that's why we tested all these different doses um we also were concerned about neurotoxicity the old issue of MDMA neurotoxicity which blocked research for um quite a few U more than a decade and a half um and so these are just neurocognitive tests before and after the blue is before the Orange is um after and so there's no effect on neurocognitive performance or people are getting a little bit better so based on this really the neurotoxicity issue is no longer something that the FDA cares about I mean they care about it but they've decided that through all of the evidence that we have and these data that in the few times that we administer MDMA it's not a real Salient issue um this is um The Phase 2 Data at the primary endpoint which is two months after the last MDMA session and so this is um just to show you that uh there's a large effect size 0.9 and it's on the basis of this data that we presented to the FDA and they said this is really good um we also looked at depression a lot of people with PTSD have depression so depression scores also go way down um um this is the sort of everybody that's in our study if they get randomized to the placebo group they're able after we uncover the blind to go through the study again with full dose MDMA so that helps with recruitment helps with retention so this is everybody that was in the study whether they got MDMA in the open label or they got MDMA in the randomized study and so and this is 12 months after the last MDMA session so you can see um dramatic declines way statistically significant so 233% of the subjects that we've treated no longer have PTSD after the therapy or after lowd do MDMA so what that is showing is we have 40 hours of therapy so the therapy itself is effective but when you add full dose MDMA after two sessions it more than doubles to 55% no longer have PTSD when we add a third session we're up to 61% and when we look at them a year later 2/3 of very problematic PTSD and people that are treatment resistant no longer have PTSD at the end of the year so it's pretty incredible results and the FDA is used to psychiatric medications that treat symptoms but don't really address the underlying cause to the point of a cure so we're saying that for some subjects 2third of them no longer even have the diagnosis now that doesn't mean that the ones that didn't couldn't also benefit from a few more exposures to MDMA we found people that are high on dissociation people um that have U borderline personality disorders they'll be taking they'll need more sessions um so I'm going to show you a very brief video now it's just a few minutes from one of the therapy sessions with a marine who was in a rock um rage he was dealing with rage all the time he had a problems um uncontrolled anger I never realized how much I I thought I was being the peaceful person but I didn't realize how much I was punishing that that that aspect of me I think I was just I think maybe in Iraq I saw what it was capable of and I think I was too afraid to you know and a part of me just feels like so bad that I I did that to him I mean I know it's me but I just describing it wise where are you um yeah but I just that's really amazing and I I don't know I just got this amazing sense of just I guess wisdom I really don't know sounds a lot like wisdom to me it was it was really amazing and even when I try and think of that really rageful aspect of me like I can't even I know it's there but it just doesn't if I really feel like so much more at peace with like everything great even if I try and think about Iraq and everything like I somehow feel like really peaceful about the fact that that's my journey and that yeah thanks for sharing that part of me think I mean I mean I know this is um part of the um you know part of the drug but like try to think you know am I going to be able to hold on to this um this understanding and this um somewhat of wisdom this knowledge that I have now mhm I I mean just ask myself that question I feel like it's so profound that I don't think I could really forget it um this is Nicholas blackton and he is a featuring in the book acid test um and he is still doing tremendously well after the after the treatment um so here's what we learned from phase two studies we first off learned that the cause of PTSD is irrelevant our first study was with uh mostly women survivors of childhood sexual abuse who had PTSD in average of over 17 years then we moved to mostly male veterans we've worked with people with accidents with PTSD from a range of causes and so once people develop PTSD the treatment that we're offering seems to help regardless of the cause of PTSD so that's really good news because that means that we have sort of a general treatment for PTSD it's not just for a certain segment of the PTSD population we also learned to our surprise that the low doses of MDMA and by we're not talking micro does here we're talking 25 to 40 milligrams that they actually had an anti-therapeutic effect that they made people a little bit agitated they activated them but they didn't sufficiently reduce their anxi and fears so that here they'd been carrying this trauma for a long time and now they're in this therapeutic setting and they're supposed to be addressing their trauma which they've not been able to address before and these low doses actually make people uncomfortable more people dropped out of the study with these Doses and so what that meant is that these low doses are not an adequate control in producing a dble bind experiment it does produce more blinding but it makes it easier to show a difference between the therapy with full dose and the therapy with low dose it's better to compare therapy with full dose with therapy with inactive Placebo even though we acknowledge that the placebo is not going to really stay double blind and we've persuaded the FDA of that as well we also demonstrated safety and we showed a medium to large effect size on the Caps 4 there's since been a move to the Caps 5 so we're going to be using that the other thing that we learned and I think this is really important from what you've all heard from so much of the presentations about the work with the classic psychedelics is that there's a relationship between the mystical experience and therapeutic outcome with MDMA we use the same measures of mystical experience and you can see here that um 0 0.6 is considered a full mystical experience and so we have quite a large number of people that have full mystical experiences according to these questioners in the MDMA sample that we have much more again in the active doses than comparative doses but not as much as with cbin or with LSD but there's still a fair amount of people that have these mystical experiences and what we show is that there's no correlation at all and so that is actually something that we found quite encouraging with our non-directive method so we're not trying to steer people to a mystical experience and we also were surprised to discover that um the 75 milligram dose group did really really well where we compared 3075 and 125 and so in fact it did a little bit better than the 125 and what we think is necessary to Healing trauma is that you feel safe when you're reviewing your biographical traumatic experiences and though there may be roots to uh you know the birth trauma or transpersonal Roots mostly we see that people if they can kind of rewrite their their memories in a way where with memory reconsolidation you look at a trauma while you're feeling safe and you can place it in the past there's a reduction of activity in the amydala enhancement of activity in the frontal cortex you place it in the past and then when you reconsolidate the memory you have switched the emotional tag which is fear and anxiety from one of peace and putting it in the past and so then when you remember it again later you actually H we find that people have a better memory for the trauma and what happened but they don't have the fear and anxiety and so therefore it suggests that the mystical experience which is sort of not so much biographical but transpersonal isn't essential for helping people get over Trauma from their biography so validate says this is going to be basically the phase three design three sessions the first one is going to be 80 milligrams um and everybody goes through one or the other of these either inactive Placebo and the therapy and then there's going to be a decision point where the um therapists and the patients decide was that dose sufficient or do they want to go higher they won't exactly what higher means but it'll mean 120 and then the third session is similarly uh optional a little bit of fine-tuning and then the two-month followup and that's the date where the FDA is looking at the data we will do one-ear follow-ups but that's not for approval from the FDA that's more for really showing that insurance companies should pay for it you know because it'll last um here's the other big thing and I know I'm running out of time so I'll be very fast but the the whole system is rigged in favor of the pharmaceutical industry and that's really really good and so for us um and what the thing is that you can do which is completely legitimate is what's called an interim analysis so one of the hardest points that you need to do is you figure out what your effect size is you do your statistical calculations and you come up with a number of subjects you need to get statistical significance but we're working with the Caps 5 instead of the Caps 4 we're working with all these new therapy teams we're um new sites so we're not 100% sure what's the exact right number we need for statistical significance it costs us an average of around um $50,000 per subject so these are expensive studies um some fraction of them go through it twice so you don't want to have too many people in your study because then you can't afford it so what the FDA permits you to do is have an unblinded data monitoring committee that looks at the data when you're about 60 or 70% sent through and they'll all they'll tell you is um you don't need to add anybody or you need to add X number of people to get statistical significance so if your effect size is smaller than you thought it would be we won't be told is there more variability did the uh placebo group do better than we thought or the MDMA group do worse all we're going to be told is a number and if we can afford it we add that number and then we get significance and then the FDA will approve the study so this is basically our timeline ends in 2021 um I just say that U here's our projected cost this is our America First plan um we felt that it was important to um to sort of go with the the harmony with the times um so our America First plan means FDA first and so if we have a medium to large effect size which is what we've had before it'll be $20 million and0 subjects if we have a small to medium effect size we're going to need up to 300 subjects and that'll be up to $25 million um however if we have a medium to large of size 300 subjects might be enough to get it approved by FDA and EMA um and then if we have small to medium effect it's um $35 M million 450 subjects and we've been getting so ambitious that we figured Let's Go Global and uh so Global hypothetical is $50 billion and um actually I was working today on a team that's interested in doing MDMA research in China and so uh we are we are going global um and we already have uh $10 million and um I'd like to say that as you see on your conference bags about Dr bronners that Dr bronners has pledged $5 million um a million a year for five years so the question is how is this different than other drugs the FDA has what's called Rems risk evaluation and mitigation strategies that you have to customize for every drug to make sure that the benefits outweigh the risks so the only people that are going to be able to prescribe MDMA are going to be people that have been trained by us in the administration of MDMA they can modify the administration through um Innovation if they want to do it in some different way it's called off label prescription the label will be our method but they can use other methods it will always be in clinics it will never be a take-home medicine because it's only to be administered under super vision and there's going to be certain safety screenings that are going to be required to be followed through so talking with the FDA ahead of time about these Rems is making Regulatory Agencies a lot more comfortable about saying yes because this is the opposite of medical marijuana medical marijuana is a take-home drug people do it at home they can give it to their friends from a drug control perspective it's more of a nightmare for DEA but this is not so that's eliminated a lot of the concerns about making this into a medicine we've um started a public benefit Corporation so that we're going to sell it through um where we maximize social benefits not profits and these are going to be uh the future psychedelic Psychotherapy clinics um you're going to go three Mar you're going to go to Google Maps one day and put in psychedelic clinics um this is what you're going to get um once this is all done I'm going to go back to being a psychedelic therapist uh this is my license and I just wanted to say this is the last one that um we just had psychedelic science and it was an incredible conference and we have the videos online so if any of you are interested in that just go to psychadelic science.org and thank you very much

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: o3r4fY1hE5I (https://youtu.be/o3r4fY1hE5I) ===

[Music] LSD, magic, mushrooms, ecstasy. Since the 1960s, hallucinogenic drugs have mostly been associated with counterculture rebellion and recreational abuse. But researchers say experiments now underway may prove hallucinogens useful in treating everything from depression to cluster headaches to post-traumatic stress. Joining me now are Rick Dablin, executive director of the multidisciplinary association for psychedelic studies and Marilyn Howell, whose late daughter was treated with LSD and ecstasy as part of her hospice care. Welcome to both of you. Marilyn, you have an incredible story to tell. right near the end of your daughter Mara's life, you got associated with Rick's group and got her a prescription essentially for um that's not entirely the case. Um while I was told and called Rick to see if there were any studies available, there were none at the time. Um that and she was incapable of any sense of peace. Um she was we tried every prescription medication available. So, uh, I had heard about a a study at MLAN hospital that was using, um, MDMA, uh, ecstasy for end of life, um, anxiety and depression and, um, and it relieves pain too. And yes, it can definitely relieve pain. Um but that study wasn't ready and um that he that uh psychiatrist uh told me about maps and Rick uh and there were I called him. There was nothing available at that time. So but you did eventually find I found somebody and Allan an underground therapist who um out of compassion wanted to help. So over a series of three months, the last three months of her life, she had six different psychedelic sessions and they were really the only times when she was painfree uh when she could experience joy in her life. Um so it was a quite a profound uh experience for her and and certainly for me and at the end uh for her father as well. uh when everything seems so desolate, when there's this little bright shining moment u from time to time um when she was back to being herself um and when she died. That is amazing because we think of psychedelic drugs of course as being you know you're out of your mind, you don't have your thoughts. Rick, how did your group come to I mean it's the experiments are now legal. Yes. But how did you discover how did anybody discover that some of these drugs are useful for this kind of thing as opposed to what frankly most of us associate it with in the 60s and 70s is recreational mindaltering you know fun. Well I mean I wish I could take credit for discovering it but we didn't. um LSD and MDMA have been used quite a lot by underground psychedelic psychotherapists and psychologists and in particular in the 1960s there was research with a drug called MDA that's somewhat similar to MDMA which and one of them is ecstasy and the other well MDMA is ecstasy and so um when MDA was made illegal in around 1975 a lot of chemists were looking around to tinker with the different molecules to come up with substances that were legal. And so MDMMA was developed in this way and then it was used in underground psychedelic therapy circles. About a half a million doses were used from around the middle 70s to the early 80s. And what most people don't realize is ecstasy really began as a therapy drug and it was people who used it in this therapeutic context. One of them thought, "Aha, here's a way to make a lot of money and to provide drugs that people would really appreciate." And so it became ecstasy and it became marketed in a public way. And that's what attracted the attention of the DEA to try to criminalize it when it was being used in bars and sold at nightclubs and sold it with 800 numbers. And so I was aware I was wanting to be a therapist and I was aware of the use of these drugs for therapy. And I learned about MDMMA when it was still legal. And I recognized that because of the mindset of the war on drugs that it would become illegalist in a short period of time. So I helped organize a group of psychiatrists and psychologists. And then we tried to protect the therapeutic use of MDMA with a lawsuit against the DEA, which we won the lawsuit, but the DEA made it illegal anyway. And in 1986 is when I started MAPS to move it through the FDA system. I see. Well, Marilyn, in the three months that your daughter Mara took these drugs, when she wasn't taking it, did the after effects of it help her or did she crave more of it? I mean, did she then want to get to that next level because she remembered it was it was it felt good or gave her peace of mind. It's a little more complex than that. um when um she first took um MDMA with this the guidance of a therapist and I acted as co-therapist um she was really hoping for a mystical experience for some transformative healing. Um I had given up hope. We'd been through so many protocols and so on. Um I was really interested in the be at peace. Um be able to talk about death. she pushed away anyone that that wanted to mention death. So we had this sort of dual motivations. Um and so she had these very positive experiences, but she wanted something that was more powerful, more likely to open up her psyche, more likely to have this transcendent experience. So um after these initial two sessions with MDMA uh she wanted something stronger and um so there was a third session using magic mushrooms. The psilocybin is the magic and um it didn't seem to have much effect because she was deteriorating rapidly. By that point she was on 15 different drugs. Um so the psilocybin didn't have much effect until uh she used some marijuana and um marijuana had the effect not so much of eliminating all pain but changing her attitude toward it. She said I still feel some pain but it's not me. She didn't identify with it. She could distance herself from it. Um be more of an observer rather than a victim. Um but she was disappointed that she didn't get her miracle. Um so she wanted she wanted to go for the strongest um psychedelic which was LSD um which was her fourth session. So Rick, are there other examples like this one Marilyn went through that have that had that kind of success? Yeah successes but yeah there's quite a few. There's quite a few. That's why I think that these drugs will play a role in the hospice movement in the future. But it's going to take us about 10 years or so to make them into prescription medicines. We have a study in Switzerland with LSD with end of life. There's three studies at NYU and Johns Hopkins and UCLA with psilocybin that sponsored by another organization. And then the study at MLAN hospital with MDMA for cancer patients and and all these examples of people who can't wait who find underground therapists. All right, Rick Davlin, Maryland, thanks so much for coming here today. Really appreciate it. Yeah, thanks. All right, when we continue, a coach for the game of life.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 4HWbggvGTuQ (https://youtu.be/4HWbggvGTuQ) ===

- I think to understand
what's going on with MAPS and to understand what's going on with MDMA-assisted psychotherapy, it helps to think in
terms of exponential growth. (gentle music) MAPS initially was set up
to take MDMA through the Food and Drug Administration, through the FDA, and make it into a medicine for the FDA. The more that I learned
about what we were doing, the more I realized that we
needed to globalize MDMA. (gentle music) So the first MDMA study that
we were able to do was in 2004, and it took us 12 years, until 2016 to complete the series of six Phase 2 safety and
efficacy pilot studies, where we were looking at various questions about basically
how to design Phase 3. (gentle music) So I think the results that we have are absolutely remarkable. And one of the most important questions is can we replicate this? When we received the
Breakthrough Therapy designation from the FDA for MDMA-assisted
psychotherapy for PTSD, that was in recognition of two things. The first was that there
were large numbers of people that were not adequately treated by the currently available treatments, and also that MDMA-assisted
psychotherapy for PTSD was a novel approach. And the FDA wanted to
really acknowledge that and help us move forward
through the system. We still have a lot of ways to go, the hardest is ahead, which is scaling up to Phase 3 studies for MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD, both in the U.S. and Europe, And if we can do that then we
have to scale up exponentially even more to train thousands and tens of thousands of therapists. But, MAPS is in essence, a change agent using pharmaceutical science
as the point of leverage into our society, but the goals go way beyond that. (gentle music)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: _-xPJMxWPc4 (https://youtu.be/_-xPJMxWPc4) ===

Hi all, welcome to the next  episode of Talks 21.  My guest today is Rick  Doblin.  Hi, Rick.  Hi, Karel.  So great to be with you.  Great to see you after a long  time.  Yes.  Rick Doblin is one of the  most influential figures in  modern psychedelic science.  As the founder of the  Multidisciplinary Association  for Psychedelic Studies, Rick  Doblin crusades for the safe  and legal use of psychedelics  in therapy,  to the therapeutic potential  of psychedelics, not as  counterculture, but as  medicine.  He is the founder of MAPS,  the Multidisciplinary  Association for Psychedelic  Studies, the organisation  that has led to groundbreaking  clinical trials using  MDMA-assisted therapy for  PTSD, including work with  veterans, survivors of  trauma, and communities  affected by war.  Rick's life's work bridges  science, psychology, policy,  and human consciousness.  His mission is not escapism,  but healing.  Not ideology, but evidence.  At a time of global trauma,  polarization and crisis, Rick  asks a deeper question.  What if healing  consciousness is not  optional, but essential for  humanity's future?  Dear Rick, I am so glad to  welcome you to Talks 21.  Could you please tell us  a little bit about history, how  you got into psychedelics,  what happened in 1986, such  a big step, the heroic event  that you did, and how it has  evolved in these 40 years?  Yes, I'd love to talk about  that.  Well, really, it was when  I was 18 years old in 1972,  after I had read Stan Grof's  book, Realms of the Human  Unconscious, that I had  decided to focus my life on  psychedelics.  And that was two years after  the criminalisation of  psychedelics in the  Controlled Substances Act of  1970 and the shutdown  of psychedelic research all  over the world.  Before that, I had been  educated about the horrors  of humanity.  I'm Jewish.  I was born in 1953.  I had distant relatives killed  in the Holocaust and early  relatives who were trying to  build a country in Palestine.  My great-great-grandmother  moved to Palestine in 1904  in order to die and be buried  on the Mount of Olives,  which happened in 1907.  So I was raised on stories of  the Holocaust and the  creation of the State of  Israel.  And so I just thought, why  are these people trying to  kill me or people like me?  Um, so I had, I was born into  safety and support, but it  was aware that the larger  world was dangerous.  And when I was a young boy  was the Cuban missile crisis  between, um, the US and  Russia, where it seemed like  now the Russians are trying  to kill me.  Yeah.  Potentially.  And it was on the edge of  the Third World War.  Yeah.  And we were told in school  to, they called a duck in  cover, you know, duck under  your desk, cover your head and maybe  you'll survive a nuclear  blast, which was not very  reassuring. But it was now  the world is a very  dangerous place.  And my parents had been  successful, and they told me  that they would give me the  freedom to do whatever  I wanted to do.  And I knew that I would  have enough food and  shelter.  And so, I started thinking  about deeper threats in  a way.  Then what changed was also  now, when I was 17, was the  Vietnam War.  And I was in one of the last  years of the lottery for  soldiers to go to Vietnam.  And I'm like, now my own  country wants to potentially  kill me and kill other people.  So I just started wondering  why all this, what is the  story of humanity, of these  constant wars, of these  constant dehumanizing  others?  And I studied Gandhi and  nonviolent resistance.  And so I decided that what  I would do for my  confrontation with the  Vietnam War is that I would  not register for the draft and  I would be arrested for doing  that.  And then I would go to jail.  And so I thought I'll serve my  country by going to jail and  by costing the system  money.  And that's a completely  nonviolent way to respond.  My parents said, that's okay  with them, but you'll never  be able to be a doctor or  a lawyer, my dad was  a doctor, because you'll be  a felon.  And I thought, okay, I'll  accept that.  I'll have to figure out  something else.  It was a felony?  Yeah, to not register for the  draft, yeah.  And I had a passport,  a driver's license, social  security number, was paying  taxes.  I was on all the possible lists.  So I thought, okay, this is  what I'm going to do,  ended up overestimating the  efficiency of the government  and they didn't even notice  that I didn't register.  But all of that was thinking  like, what am I going to do  with my life?  All these people potentially  want to kill me.  I have my survival set up by  my parents.  And then I started  experimenting with LSD.  And the first time when  I was 17 when I tried LSD, it  was very difficult.  I wasn't very emotionally  mature.  But it made me connect to  a larger world outside of my  life.  And I had been very  disappointed by my Bar  Mitzvah when I was 13,  because I'm the oldest of  four kids.  And I was told a story, this  rite of passage is going to  transform you into a man.  That's what this idea was  that this is a ceremony.  Now you can be part of the,  you count now as part of the  prayers.  You need 10 people in  a minyan to have prayers.  And now you would count  once you’re 13.  But nothing happened.  My Bar Mitzvah didn't  change me.  It was an outer rite of  passage, but it didn't engage  me initially.  But when I tried LSD,  I thought, this is what my Bar  Mitzvah should have been.  Where do I fit in?  Who am I?  What is my connection to  this larger world and to  spirituality?  But I was having all these  difficult experiences  because I had these  intimations of something  bigger, and it was  bringing me to my feelings,  to my emotions.  I was so much up into my  head before.  But I was troubled by my  inability to let go, my fear.  You know, it takes a lot of  courage to let go during  a psychedelic experience, to  open up and to let your  sense of self dissolve.  And I didn't have enough of  that kind of courage.  And so I had a lot of  difficulties.  So I went to the guidance  counsellor at my school.  And this was just one of  those strokes of luck.  He knew Stan Grof.  And he had Stan Grof's book,  Realms of the Human  Unconscious, years before it  was published.  He had a manuscript copy of  it.  And so, reading it, I didn't  trust religion, but I trusted  science.  And so Stan was- so this is  the time when you first  learned about Stan Grof?  Yeah, 1972.  Okay.  And after I read this, the  manuscript copy, it was just,  this felt like science looking  at spirituality in a way.  The beautiful thing about  Stan's work was it wasn't  just theoretical, it was  practical in that it was  focused on therapy.  How do you take this new  understanding of the  unconscious and of people's  connections to something  deeper, but also their  connections to childhood  traumas, to birth traumas,  to confrontation with death?  How do you work with all of  these things to help people  have a fuller life?  So I felt that he had a reality  check  of therapy.  So that other people, I would  contrast this with is John Lilly,  who was an early  psychedelic researcher,  invented the flotation tank.  But he was more interested  in knowledge, and Stan was  more interested in healing.  So it was knowledge and  service of healing.  And I liked the fact in a way  that, um, because it had  been, psychedelics had been  so suppressed by the  government that made me  think, why is Nixon so  scared of psychedelics?  Because of freedom, right?  Because of freedom,  because of questioning  reality.  Therefore, the fact that it  was being suppressed, made  a big difference.  Now, the other part of this is  that I had a certain privilege.  And so Primo Levi is  a renowned Holocaust writer.  He went through the  Holocaust and he wrote. But  he wrote about how people  tend to think that social  change movements, that  revolutions start  with the downtrodden, with  the people that are  oppressed, and they throw  off their chains and then  they struggle for freedom.  But he says that's not  usually the way it happens.  Because the purpose of  oppression is to make it so  you can't protest, you're  always focused just on  survival.  And what he said is actually  it's the privileged, for one  reason or another, that are  usually the ones that start  the freedom movements.  Yes, the ones who do not  suffer that much, who can  give some energy, some  attention to the change.  Yeah.  So I felt that I had this  privilege and that I was just  so lucky in where in this  generational line I was born.  So my great, great  grandfather was a labourer.  Didn't even read or write.  This is in Poland.  My great-grandfather was  a tailor.  Okay.  My grandfather was  a teacher,  left Poland in 1920, and my  dad was a doctor.  And my mother's family had  built some businesses  as well.  So I had this privilege to do  whatever I wanted.  And so I thought now,  psychedelics are connected  to helping us feel connected  to everything, to other  people, and that you realize  that we have more in  common than we have  separating us.  And if you feel that and  know that, it's harder to  dehumanize others.  So I, um, I wrote a letter to  Stan and I said, in 1972, I'd  like to, um, have your  advice.  How do I become  a psychedelic therapist?  Cause I figured since I was  going to be at this point,  I still thought I was going to  be arrested, and I would  never have a normal job, but  I figured I could be an underground psychedelic  therapist.  So at 18 years old, I said, I'm  going to fight for freedom.  I'm going to be an  underground therapist.  And, um,  Stan invited me to a workshop that he gave in  1972 with Joan Halifax, who  he had just been married to.  I did a workshop with Stan.  I did primal therapy.  I did encounter groups.  I did everything that I could  do to elevate my  consciousness.  That was without LSD, right?  Because it was illegal at that  point?  Yeah, all of this was illegal.  Oh, okay.  Yeah, all of it was illegal.  I identified as  a counterculture drug-using  criminal.  So at age 18, that's who I am.  I'm a counterculture  drug-using criminal, but the  arc of my life has to go from  counterculture to culture,  from criminal to legal, but  I've continued to find  psychedelics useful and  marijuana and other things  useful through my life.  And a fair amount of that  has been accomplished.  But it was this  desire to try to make  a contribution to a more  peaceful world that led me  to say, when I'm 18, I'm  going to focus my life on  psychedelics, but I wasn't  mature enough.  And I had the wrong idea  that the more drugs you  take, the faster you evolve.  So I did lots and lots of  drugs, but I got more  confused and  I underestimated the  importance of integration.  Once I realised that, that  I had to get grounded,  I spent, um, 10 years, I dropped out of school and  my freshman year, I spent 10  years building things,  building houses, um,  building a handball court  and getting grounded.  And it took me 10 years, um,  before I was ready  emotionally to, um, put  psychedelics first to start  again, to become  a psychedelic therapist for  others.  So it took me, as I said, like a decade. So then, in 1982, I went back  to college and my first  semester, I went to be with  Stan Grof and Christina for  a month-long workshop at  Esalen in Big Sur.  And that's where I learned  about MDMA.  And when I learned about  MDMA, it was both  a therapy, it was still legal,  and it was a therapy drug  under the name ADAM, but  had also just started to  become ecstasy  used in a public setting.  So I knew that it was  doomed.  Eventually, this was Nancy  Reagan and Ronald Reagan.  And so I learned about LSD  after the backlash.  And now I'm learning about  MDMA before the backlash,  but I know that there will be  a backlash.  So that's where I started  thinking, okay, I can get  more politically involved.  So you knew there would be  backlash because it's just  too good, right?  So for the political powers,  it's not advantageous for  people to have  this kind of loving  experiences that it gives.  Yeah.  And once it was being used  in a public setting, so by the  time that I learned about it,  about half a million doses  had been used in quiet  settings in people's houses  as a therapy drug.  But one of the people that  used it that way, thought,  aha, this is a good drug.  I can make a lot of money.  I'll turn it into ecstasy.  I'll sell it in bars.  And then it's a problem.  And then it was inevitable.  So from 1982, it was like the  advocates for psychedelics  had several years advanced  knowledge.  The government didn't know  about therapeutic use.  They just knew about the  recreational ecstasy.  So we were able to introduce  a variety of people to MDMA,  either to try it or talk about  it.  To prepare them to be  witnesses once the DEA  would move to criminalise  MDMA, which happened in  1984.  And so I had worked with  Brother David Steindl-Rast,  a Roman Catholic monk, and  he had used MDMA in the  monastery to help him  meditate.  And he talked about it to the  media, how MDMA helps  people achieve a state of  mind that monks will spend  their whole lifetime trying to  do.  I worked with a Jewish rabbi  who compared MDMA to the  Sabbath.  And so these were people  willing to speak to the  media.  So we were winning in the  public, the court of public  opinion, and we were  winning in the court, trying  to slow down the  criminalisation of MDMA.  And in 1985, the DEA kind of  freaked out because they  could see we were winning.  And so they emergency  scheduled MDMA while the  hearings were still going on.  And then we won the  hearings.  The judge said MDMA should  be a medicine.  It should be illegal for  recreational use, but it  should be a medicine.  And the head of the Drug  Enforcement Administration  rejected that  recommendation.  And we sued twice in the  appeals courts, won both  times.  Eventually, we lost.  And I realised that the only  way to bring MDMA back  and to bring psychedelics  back was through the FDA,  was to go where the  suffering is, go where the  science is, and so I started  MAPS in 1986.  The most difficult, the  longest way, which is  resistant though, robust.  Yes.  But it was really because  there's so much negative  propaganda that people  have learned about  psychedelics.  I was raised to say that if  you did LSD six times, you  were certifiably insane.  And I believe we were told  that it hurts your  chromosomes, that you're  going to have deformed  babies, that  it's gonna damage your  brain in all these different  ways.  But these things didn't seem  to be true.  But when you can do  science, one of the things  about the media in America,  and I think this is about the  media most everywhere, is  that they are reporting on  scientific advances.  So that we could have  earned media that could be  worth millions and billions  of dollars over time that  we'd never be able to pay for  by doing science and getting  results published in  scientific journals.  I started MAPS as  a nonprofit psychedelic  pharmaceutical company  with the realisation at the  time that it would never be  profitable, that it would be  a generic medicine, that the  only way to do it was  through philanthropy, that  there was no patents on it.  That was my understanding  when I started MAPS in 1986.  I graduated from college in 1987  and I wanted to get a clinical  psych PhD, learn how to do  psychotherapy outcome  research.  But at this point, MDMA had  just been criminalised and  nobody would let me in to  graduate school.  So a lot of times when I'm  stymied, and I don't know  what to do, I decide to think  about it while I'm high on  marijuana.  Yes, it helps.  It really helps.  It opens different  perspectives sometimes.  Yeah.  So under the influence of  marijuana, and I remember  exactly where I was in my  house, where I had this idea  that I saw a pattern in my  life.  So the pattern was I want  too much too soon.  I'm impatient, I want too  much too soon.  And then I realized I want to  do the science, but the  politics is in the way.  So therefore, I have to study  the politics.  And so I had read an  interview with this, about  drug policy,  with this professor, Mark  Kleiman, who was at the  school that I'd never heard  of before, the Kennedy  School of Government at  Harvard.  And he had mentioned in  this article our lawsuit  against the DEA.  So I called him up, and I said,  would you be my mentor?  If I could get into the  Kennedy School, I need help  to figure out how to work  within the system, how to  open the door to psychedelic  research.  And Mark said, yeah, if you  can get in, I would be glad to  be your mentor.  So I did all sorts of work to  try to get in.  I managed to get in.  And that's where I shifted in  my mind from learning to  treat individuals for  problems that they have to  learning to treat a sick  public policy.  So, from individual therapy  to cultural therapy.  So that was the kind of shift.  And so that's where a big  part of MAPS has been about  public education.  Because one of the  statements that  we've seen recently in  the United States is that  politics is downstream from  culture.  Meaning culture will permit  what you can do in  a political sense.  It's also true in a scientific  sense.  So that really changing  culture and finding ways to  influence people.  So that's basically, MAPS is  trying to do science.  Now, I then eventually got  into the master's program.  Then I got into the PhD  program and did my,  I almost had a job at the FDA.  This was terrific.  I applied for what's called  the Presidential  Management Fellowship.  It's for people who want  careers in the federal  government.  It's highly competitive and  they, like 150 people or so  every year get chosen.  And then you go in your  different departments in the  federal government, but  then they pull you out every  couple of months to meet all  the people, special  leadership training things.  And I managed to get that.  It was right around the time  that the Supreme Court  decided that the Native  American church could use  peyote for religious services.  So that was my topic.  I talked about the Supreme  Court case about religious  freedom to use peyote.  And I got accepted.  And I tried to get a job at the  FDA to learn how they work.  And I went through about  half a year of vetting with  different people, layers of  the FDA.  I eventually met the person  in charge of all drug  research at the FDA.  And they were all ready to  hire me.  And I thought, this is terrific.  I'll work there for a couple  years, see how the FDA  works.  And then at the last minute,  the FDA told the DEA that  they were going to hire me.  And the DEA made the issue.  They said, no way.  So I was willing to do two  things that you'll probably  appreciate that were very  hard for me.  The first one was to wear  a suit and tie to work.  So I was willing to wear  a suit and tie to work and  I was willing to give up drugs  for a couple of periods of  years.  So by the DEA saying that  they would refuse to work  with me, and then I couldn't  get the job, the DEA saved  me from giving up drugs.  That's very funny.  This was now 1990.  So I started in 88, graduated  in 1990.  And that's where I realised,  and I'd met the woman  that's my wife now, but she  was just my girlfriend then.  And she was one year  behind me at the Kennedy  School.  And I realized that I needed  more credibility, that  I would go for the PhD.  She said, I don't need a PhD,  I'll just hire PhDs.  And so she's done that.  She's executive director of  a family foundation.  She gives away a lot of their  money and she's hired PhDs.  But for me, it was necessary.  So I got my PhD in 2001, and  I thought I knew, this is also  a danger sign, I thought  I knew everything I needed to  know  about making a drug into  a medicine.  But I missed something  fundamental that I didn't  learn until 2014, 28 years  after I started MAPS.  My dissertation committee  was a fellow who taught at  Harvard Law School, but was  the leading pharmaceutical  lawyer in America, used to  be the FDA lawyer.  My dissertation was all  about how to work through  the FDA.  And what I learned about in  a way accidentally in 2014,  was that there was  a program that pharma  companies never used.  That's why I was never  talked about it.  But it was in 1984, two years  before I started MAPS,  Ronald Reagan signed into  law a bill that would provide  incentives for developing  drugs that were off patent.  And these incentives are  called data exclusivity.  So what it means is that you  have exclusive use of your  own data to make a drug  into a medicine for five  years, during which there  can be  no competition, unless  another company develops  its own data.  So that's how it's different  from a patent.  If you've got a patent, you  own something.  But if you don't have  a patent, you have use of your  own data.  And then you get an  additional six months of  data exclusivity if you do  pediatric studies.  So that's five and a half  years.  And then it takes the FDA  around six months or more  to figure out, to review  a generic application.  So once I realised this and  data exclusivity is 10 years  in Europe.  So in the Czech Republic, it's  10 years for EMA.  But I realised now there's  a way to make money from  selling MDMA.  And I could tell a different  story to the donors.  The story would be that if  you keep giving us money to  make MDMA into  a medicine, eventually we  become self-funding at least  for this period of time.  And we're not going to have  to keep asking you for more  money and more money.  So,  the idea was now that we  started the public, the MAPS  public benefit corporation,  which was a pharmaceutical  company.  And I didn't want it to be like  a normal company, which is  all about the profits.  But in America, there's the  public benefit corporation,  which means that you  maximise public benefit.  You don't have to maximise  profits.  So in a normal company,  you, the minority  shareholders can sue the  management if they're not  maximising profits.  But in a public benefit  company,  It's declared upfront, so it  makes sense.  Yeah.  So that's what I created.  So the idea was the  nonprofit 100% owns the  for-profit, and then we will  make money during this  period of data exclusivity,  and then with that money,  we'll do global humanitarian  projects, we'll do more  public education, we'll train  therapists, we'll do all these  things.  What happened later was  that  we've raised about  $160 million in donations.  That's decent.  And then we were  succeeding.  We had all the money for the  phase two and even the  phase three studies.  But then we hired the  Boston Consulting Group,  like McKenzie, in a way, to  advise us on the next steps.  And this is where we went  wrong.  So what they said was that,  looks like you're going to  succeed.  But how do you market the  drug?  Pharma companies would  spend 60 or $70 million just  on preparing the market  to a drug.  And they should, if you're  a normal pharma company,  you would have started  years ago to lay this  groundwork.  And so we could not, so the  mistake was I believe the  experts.  And then also we could not  raise that much money from  philanthropy in that short of  a time.  So that's where we started  working with investors.  And then the company  started separating, and the  incentive started separating.  And I said this yesterday,  but I think it's important for  me to say now, is that the  biggest mistake that I made  was that we did not  articulate and quantify what  we mean by public benefit.  And link that to salaries,  stock options, and bonuses.  So that the management of  the company would be  incentivised on public  benefit, not just on profit.  But once we took in  investors and the company  started separating, and we  had a board of directors of  more traditional pharma  people. When we started  trying to put in public  benefit metrics,  it was too late.  It was too late.  And you didn't have control  anymore.  And they didn't have  control, and the company  resisted it.  So I think that was...  So it was bad advice.  It was bad advice that we…  I think when you try to do  something innovative to  apply traditional methods, it  doesn't always work.  And in this case, one of the  traditional methods was  that they  said, as you're getting close,  you've got your data, now  you're starting to negotiate  with FDA for approval, we  have what they call the  quiet period of a year or  more.  And they started not  responding to critics, not  responding to the media.  And so they lost the idea  that we had done, at this  point, 35 years of culture  change that had really been  key to doing the science.  And then by ignoring the  culture, when the critics  come, you need to  continually have a positive  story of what you're doing  and why, and so when the  fear started coming, there was no response. So  that's where I think the cultural narrative changed.  Then the FDA said no. Responding to the media  more than to the science.  Yeah, I understand. And in fact, was it necessary  to search for investors?  Because MDMA, again, it is  that special that maybe the  word of mouth would have  been enough.  Well, it didn't seem that  way.  So when I first started,  I thought, my thought was  that look at all these people  that are doing ecstasy now.  If each of them would just  send me $10.  So unique, right?  Yeah.  I thought then we'll have all  the money we need.  But then I realised that they  would rather use $10 to buy  more ecstasy.  Then send it to me because  first off, they didn't think  we'd ever succeed.  Secondly, they didn't really  care about medicine.  And so we, for the first  15 years, our major funders  were people who were very  comfortable with  psychedelics, but also  wanted to change the drug  war.  And so they saw how do you  deal with this incredible  propaganda?  Actually, when I first met my  wife, when she was, our very  first date,  which she didn't even say  was a date,  we went out for lunch.  She said, we had  a wonderful conversation  about her psilocybin trip, she  had in college that she was  still thinking about.  But then at the end of this,  near the end of this lunch,  she was saying, I just want  you to know I would never  want to have a real  relationship with anybody  like you.  And I'm like, what's wrong  with me?  She said, well, you've done  so much LSD, your  chromosomes must be all  screwed up.  And I'm like, I can't believe  you're saying that.  I said, it may be premature,  but let me defend my sperm.  They're in good shape.  This was our very first  discussion.  But it just goes to show,  super smart people...  That's interesting.  Clearly, she showed very  much interest, right?  Yeah, yeah.  But she believed all this  propaganda.  So, how do you counteract all  that?  And that's through culture  change and through science  and through the media.  And when you ignore that,  the fears come to the  surface.  But my training was all in  how to make it a drug  through the FDA.  I didn't really study  commercialization.  And so that's where I didn't  know what I didn't know.  And that's where I believe  the experts.  And that was the beginning  of the downfall to where we  ended up having people that  now they don't even really  want to be in charge of the  drug plus therapy.  So for me, what public  benefit means is what's best  for patients.  And that means drug plus  therapy because it's not  about the drug.  I mean, that's one of the  main messages, I guess, I'd like people to have is that  it's the context in which you  use something.  These substances, are  like tools, and they can be  harmful, they can be helpful,  but they're not inherently  spiritual necessarily.  It's the safety, the support,  the context, the  understanding, and that's  what really matters.  So the FDA didn't approve  the third phase, but now it  looks like it will finally get  approved?  Yes, I think so.  So they basically didn't say  no, they just said not yet.  And so they want more  information.  And so I think  the information from a new  study will be mostly about  safety, I think, but that's  being negotiated, has been  negotiated.  So my guess is now here we  are near the end of January,  2026.  My sense is that before this  year is over, and maybe  even within the next six  months, the FDA will make  some sort of provisional  approval of MDMA with  some requirement of  additional research.  Exactly what that  provisional approval is,  I don't know, or what the  implications will be around  the world, I'm not sure, but  it will be helpful.  And the company, because  I was really disappointed by  the management, I went  searching for new  management.  And so I found two people  who have now invested in  the company and have  operational control.  One of them is Antonio  Gracias, and he happens to  be one of Elon Musk's  closest friends.  And he was on the board of  Tesla, SpaceX, but he's had  his own growth with  psychedelics.  The other is Sir Christopher  Hahn, who is a hedge fund  person from London.  And I just read an article last  week about all the different  hedge funds, and which ones  made the most money.  And Chris Hahn's hedge fund  was number one, made over  $20 billion last year.  Okay.  Yeah.  But what Chris has done and  what Antonio has done is  they have invested from  their foundations, not from  their funds.  So they're doing this more to  bring this to the world.  They have appointed  traditional pharma people  to run it, which was a disappointment to me, but  nevertheless,  What they've said is that  once MDMA is approved by  the FDA, that it should  immediately be generic in all  of Africa and in India and  possibly elsewhere, and that  they don't want traditional  pharma patent games to  make all these patents to  sue generics to keep it from  going generic, that after the  six years or so of data  exclusivity, they want it to  be generic in the United  States.  And we talked about it a bit  here, coming here, but  a generic drug, from MDMA in  particular costs $5.  Nothing.  The production cost is close  to zero.  Close to zero.  And once you've got the  upfront costs, and you've got  the methods and all that,  the marginal cost is pretty  nothing.  So the potential now is to  bring MDMA as a generic  into most of the world.  And now that the company  is well-funded, it will  negotiate with FDA,  I thought, what is the  purpose of the nonprofit?  What is our goal now?  And that's where I came up  with this new vision.  What I've said is that if your  visions are something, your  deepest visions and your  deepest dreams are  something that you can  accomplish in your own  lifetime, then they're too  small.  You need… Okay, that's an interesting  question.  Yes, it did happen.  I can see that there are,  okay, it's a little bit side  note, but the way I have  already experienced what  I call in Czech ‘NadSen’ = Beyond Dream,  that things  that happened even to me  personally, they are just  some of them so great that  I wouldn't have even  imagined them.  Yes, yes.  So the reality is better than  the deepest imagination.  That can be, yes.  And it happened in reality.  So it's kind of...  reverse, but I understand  what you are saying.  Maybe both are true.  So maybe we can be  extremely surprised that the  reality surprises us with  something that's even  better than what we would  have hoped for.  But at the same time, yes,  we should be shooting for  the skies, for the stars.  Yes.  Do you know the religion  called the Baha'i religion,  what that is?  So it's an offshoot of Islam.  It's suppressed in most of  the Muslim world.  But it's the Baha'i temple,  the Baha'i religion is that all  the different prophets are  all talking more or less  about the same thing.  So it's like a global  spirituality.  And where I grew up in  Chicago, there's this Baha'i  temple.  And it took three  generations to build it.  And as I was growing up, I'm  thinking, how could  everybody think that far  ahead?  But I was just really  impressed.  So it's one of the most  beautiful structures I've  ever seen.  But it took three  generations.  So this idea of how do we  come up with a big vision?  So for me, the global vision  now is this net zero trauma  in 2070.  Yes, this is amazing.  Maybe let me wrap a little  bit for the audience because  it's so intriguing, beyond  unbelievable what you have  accomplished, right?  You started in 86.  You started a non-profit  as a reaction to the illegal use of  MDMA, which may be such  a great tool for healing. MAPS.  And now, in 40 years, the  fruits will be soon, hopefully  this year will be out, and we  can help to improve the  trauma, as you said, the  zero-net trauma, the vision  that our trauma should be  decreasing.  That there should be  decrease of trauma, not  increasing, because what we  can say in today's world, it's  such a collapse, it's just  a separated society, so much  trauma going on, Ukraine,  Gaza, and other worlds,  Africa.  And there is, in fact, there is  no need for that, right?  Because we are people, we  have technology that we can  take care of ourselves, but  still we are creating these  terrible traumas.  So this, and yeah, maybe you  can talk about it more, that  we should be able to heal  ourselves, so that the  trauma should be  decreasing, not increasing,  which has been very  increasing the last years.  Yes, yes, and there are two  basic kinds of trauma.  One that you experience in  your life, the other is  transmitted through your  parents, multigenerational  trauma through epigenetics.  And so we work with  a researcher, Rachel Yehuda,  is at Mount Sinai University  in New York and the Bronx  VA.  And she's done studies with  Holocaust survivors and  their children and identified  certain epigenetic markers  that are related to high  stress, to fear.  And what she's done in our  MDMA research, and this is  very preliminary, but it  seems as if you are  successfully treated for  trauma, that these  epigenetic markers can  change also.  During your lifetime.  Because they are created  during your lifetime, but  they can be passed on.  Right.  So you can heal them and  then your children do not  need to have it anymore.  Yes.  So we're doing a project.  Actually, one of the things  I'm doing here in San Diego  is a project on MDMA for  couples therapy.  And we're interviewing  underground MDMA  therapists that are doing  work with couples.  And I came across this one  husband-wife therapy team  outside of Mexico City, and  they specialise in working  with couples who are  preparing to have a child, so  that they can do their own  trauma work so that they  don't pass on this  multi-generational trauma  to their children.  So it's one of the most  inspiring kind of uses of  MDMA therapy.  So net zero trauma by 2070,  that's 45 years from now, 44  years from now,  It's a long time from now,  but I do think that humanity  is not really facing up to the  challenges that we have.  I think that climate change  is going to continue to get  worse.  I was just with several  people who do a lot of work  with refugees and migrants,  and I said, I've heard this  number that by 2050, there  might be a billion climate  refugees from people being  unable to support  agriculture or different things.  And they said that does  seem still to be an accurate  estimate.  So that, what that means is,  and the fear and anxiety and  the rise of authoritarianism  and all of that, that the  trauma is likely to continue  to increase.  Net zero trauma doesn't  mean no trauma.  There'll always be trauma.  And there needs to be  trauma for us to evolve,  right?  It's part of life.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Illness, accidents, death.  We need to go through some  kind of trauma to learn and  to be resistant as well, right?  So it's like, we do not want  to say, oh, we will never be  sick.  No, but it just needs to be  within boundaries.  Yeah.  And can we stop adding to  the burden of global?  And what inspired me was  Bhutan with gross national  happiness.  So I started thinking, and  I've looked at the different  domains of how they  measure gross national  happiness.  And I said, what we need  now is gross national  trauma measure.  So there are measures of  democracy in different  countries, the amount of  cancer in different  countries, the amount of  people in prison in different  countries.  We have all these measures,  but there's no measure of  the burden of trauma in any  particular country.  So what I feel is that you  need to combine idealism  with practicality.  So yeah, how do we measure  if we are actually  reducing the global burden  of trauma.  Well, we need a measure.  So can we create this  measure of gross national  trauma and then use that  over the next decades to  chart progress?  You know, the number of  refugees, the number of  wars, the number of rapes,  the number of sexual  violence, the number of all  these things.  I can see that that's  interesting.  There is one I could see  possibly one weakness is  that it's like a negative  measure, right?  So communicating  a negative measure might be  more difficult, might be  more depressing.  While on the other side,  communicating  gross national happiness is  the positive side that might  motivate people.  So perhaps one could think  about creating some  measure which would  somehow measure the  inverse.  Yeah.  I don't know.  No, it's an interesting point  because people shy away  from negative things.  But there are measures of  the burden of cancer.  You know, which is  a negative thing.  For scientific purposes, for  sure.  Yeah.  Yeah.  Maybe one day we'll get  sophisticated enough that  we could really do measures  of people that have changed  their epigenetic markers.  Yeah.  So, you know, the number of  people that are ready to  pass on more positive  perspectives on trauma to  their children.  But yeah, I see what you're  saying about which  I don't know what that would  be, like the absence of  trauma or gross national…  Well, here this raises an  interesting point, which is  that, again, we're here to,  one of the other things I'm  doing here is to talk about  MDMA for couples therapy.  The FDA has only approved  drugs to treat illness in  psychiatry for depression,  for anxiety, for PTSD.  They've never approved  anything for wellness  or for flourishing.  But there's nothing in the  law that prevents the FDA  from approving a drug for  couples therapy, for  something positive.  And so we have an expert  lawyer scientists who  specialise in suing the FDA.  And we've done that twice  and we've won two formal  disputes with the FDA, one  about our marijuana project,  one about our MDMA  project.  And so we're preparing with  these lawyers, once we do  this initial pilot study with  MDMA for couples therapy,  then we're going to go to the  FDA with these lawyers and  say, we want to challenge  you, will you approve for  couples therapy, which is  part of wellness, not part of  illness.  And also a lot of what RFK Jr., the head of the HHS, the  Health and Human Services,  is talking about moving  more towards preventative  medicine,  more towards thinking  about promoting health  rather than treating illness.  This makes a lot of sense to  me.  Yeah.  So I think, this is where  I think MAPS's strong point is,  is this idea of science and  politics coming together,  where there's political  obstructions for certain  things.  So the biggest political  obstruction is that American  health care is about sick  care.  It's not about health care.  It's the same in Europe, in  my country as well.  That's yet another  discussion, but I agree.  So this is a couple therapy.  Now we can have it even  a community or a group  therapy, which I know there  are the trials, the projects to  heal the Israeli-Palestine  situation where people from  both Israel and Palestine  come together under the  treatment of perhaps  MDMA?  Yeah, well, what's happened  is that small groups of  Israelis and Palestinians  were doing ayahuasca and  MDMA together.  Okay, okay.  At the same time?  Well, no, no.  Ayahuasca separately?  Okay.  And usually the MDMA first,  and then they would...  And so once we noticed this,  we said, wow, maybe we  should study this.  Maybe this should be bigger.  For psychedelics for  couples therapy is almost  like conflict.  How do you help them deal  with conflict?  And then cultural conflict.  How do you deal with  Israelis and Palestinians?  We have all these prejudices  about each other.  And so there's more and  more interest in this kind of  more social impact of  psychedelics, of feeling your  common humanity.  And then how do you  dehumanise others?  I had this one experience  that really opened me up in  this way that I remember  now.  I was 16 years old, and I was  studying Russian in high  school, because my great  grandparents on my  mother's side came from  Russia to America in 1880.  But also, the Russians were  trying to blow up America  and stuff, or I thought.  So I thought I'll study, it's  good to know about your  enemy.  Yeah.  So my parents, and this is  actually a good story, how  I got inspired to do the work  I do.  They sent me to Russia in the  summer of 1970, after my  junior year of high school,  and they gave me Jewish  prayer books, which were  illegal in Russia, and they  said, bring these to the  synagogue if you can.  So they trained me that if  you can't do something big,  these big factors are beyond  any individual, but if you can  do something little, you  should do it.  You still have an obligation  to do something.  It's a responsibility, yeah so  I ended up spending the  summer in Russia, and we  were studying Russian.  There were 60 of us high  school students.  And at the place we went,  there was this young  Russian girl who was  working at the restaurant  where we would eat.  And she and I went for  a walk on the beach one time.  And I was like, I thought you  hate me.  I thought you wanted to kill  me.  I thought all the Russians  are against all the  Americans.  And she's like, no, no, no,  that's not the way it is.  We're suffering under this  government too.  You know, so to see  a Russian whom I was raised to  fear and to see that she was  just another human being, it  just really changed it.  And then I was approached  by a lot of the, I'm sort of  proud of this part, is I was  approached by young  Russians in the black  market.  And so 1970, we have the  psychedelic renaissance in  America, the psychedelic  culture.  And so the Russians wanted  to buy blue jeans, and they  wanted to buy button shirts  and they wanted to buy  anything that looked like  America.  And so I and two other  guys would collect stuff  from our 60 high school  students, and we'd go sell it  to the black market and  we'd take our cut.  So I made thousands of  rubles, which were  worthless outside of Russia  because they didn't want  anybody to escape with  money.  So I went to the synagogue  and I said, I've got this  prayer books to give you and  I've got all this money to  give you.  And the guy's like, well,  definitely we want it, but  don't give it to us here  because we're being  watched right now.  I'll meet you at the subway  station at this time, at this  place, and we'll make the  transfer then.  So I'm like, all right, now I'm  James Bond.  Yeah, this is exciting.  And I'm some stupid little 16  year old.  If they catch me, they'll just  send me home.  So I did it.  I met the guy in the subway  station, made the transfer.  And that was sort of my first  underground activity was  against the Russians at the  height of the cold war.  But also it was this lesson  from my parents that you  need to be an activist.  You need to do something.  You can't just, and so much  we disempower ourselves by  saying, I can't do enough.  But if you can do a little,  that's empowering.  And so I think that led me to  think when I started MAPS,  it didn't look like it would  ever work.  Like there was so much  against it, but it didn't  matter.  It was something  worthwhile to do.  Whether it succeeded or not.  And that's, I think, one of  the things that has led me to  being able to do this for  40 years, is that I focused on  the effort and not on the  outcome.  Yes, this is great.  Actually, this is a similar  view that Václav Havel  would say, let me rephrase,  that it makes sense to do  things that we believe in or  that make sense to us, even  though we don't know what  happens.  Yes.  Even though we do not know  the result, it might just not  work out.  And we may even see up  front, oh, there's very little  chance, but we still do it  because it's the only thing  that makes sense.  So to me, this is like  protection of freedom in  general.  It would make sense to live  in a world that would be  slavery under AI, that would  be totally controlled, and  humans would be like  animals in a cage.  So that's better for me,  would be better not to live.  So then I would do anything,  even if the chance looks very  little, I would still do it.  And maybe you can say  more about your experience  because you show so much  courage in your life, going for  what you believe.  And I also see that one of  the big problems of today's  world is that people are  manipulated by fears.  And it's so strong.  So maybe you could give  advice to people on how to do  it, how to overcome the  fears, how to go for our  visions from your own  experience.  Yeah, thank you.  Well, one of the essentials of  what MDMA does is it  reduces fear.  Yes.  You know, it reduces activity  in the amygdala, which is  our fear processing part of  the brain.  So people are more open.  They can say deep things,  but it's local.  It's not like a long-term.  Yeah.  I think that what people  often don't see is the  consequences of doing  nothing.  So I think when you're  fearful of doing something,  look at the  consequences of doing  nothing.  You know, this creeping  authoritarianism, if you  don't object to it.  That's more frightening in  many cases, the fear of  doing nothing for me, than  the fear of doing something.  The other part of it is that  fear is contagious, but so is  courage.  So if people, like with Vaclav  Havel, you know, people  object to things and then  you suddenly see that other  people have not been  willing to speak out, but now  they are. So that I think, this  idea of, of what we're scared  about is to look at the fear  of doing nothing.  And, often for me, at least that's bigger than the  fear of doing something.  Then the other part of  the courage is to realise,  well, this is, I don't  know if you know this quote,  Father Bruno was,  an associate of Galileo.  So what happened was that  when Copernicus and Galileo  are saying that the Earth is  not the center of the  universe, that ran into  problems with the church.  And so Galileo was actually  brought before the  Inquisition, was sentenced  to house arrest, and he had  to recant what he had  found.  Father Bruno was someone  who both experimented  with plant medicines, but  also supported the idea that  the Earth was not the center  of the universe.  And so he was brought  before the Inquisition and  he was sentenced to burn at  the stake.  And what he said to the  Inquisition is one of the  most courageous things I've  ever heard in my whole life.  He said, your fear of  sentencing me is greater  than my fear of being  sentenced.  So beautiful.  Yeah.  Giordano Bruno, you should  take the words.  Yeah.  Yeah.  So much sense.  So I think once you do a little  things that take courage,  then it builds your muscles  for courage more.  So that you don't have to  start by, you know,  something major that's  going to cost you a lot.  You can have courage in  a small way.  Step by step.  Say your mind instead of  holding back.  See what happens.  And then you will see that  you get more capacity for  courage.  So, yes, I believe it's about  training.  To train oneself to become  more courageous.  Actually, for me, part of it is  also physical training.  One does things which you  need to go out of comfort  zone, like do saltos and stuff  like that.  So that also, to me, at least  for me, it helps.  That would be my  suggestion as well.  Yeah.  And what I've found too, yes,  the more your body is  capable of doing things, the  more your spirit is capable  of doing things.  But I've found that the step  for me is, what is the  worst that would happen?  Just think when you're  about to do something,  you're scared of doing  something, what is the  worst that would happen?  And then, can you live with  that?  And then if you can live with  that, then you can,  go forward with more  courage.  You can put up even with  that, even if one does not  live anymore, right?  Yes.  So that is of course, what  happens.  I also learned a lot as I was  growing up from what  happened in the Warsaw  Ghetto.  That was one of the few  places where there was an  uprising, the Warsaw Ghetto  uprising during World War II,  the Nazis.  What I realised over time is  all those people that were  fighting against that, they all  knew that they would all be  killed, and that they would  not survive, but they had  a choice.  Do we want to die fighting or  do we want to die just not  resisting at all?  So that's where I think was  an enormous courage.  They knew it was going to  fail in the end.  They knew that they would  still end up dying, but it  would be a signal to others  to maybe,  start an uprising.  So that even when you think  it's going to fail, there can be  real good reasons for doing  it because then you die at  least knowing that you've  done your part.  The reasons are wider.  The reasons are for the  society, for our evolution,  for our culture to survive.  In fact, I believe that now we  are in the test phase if you  make it as humanity.  I call it social singularity 21,  21st century.  To me, it is pretty, from a big  part, it's about courage.  People are able to take the  responsibility to go behind  what they believe and not to  let themselves manipulate  by fears.  To me, this is the decisive  moment and I'm glad that  there are tools like MDMA  which can help us in these  decisions.  And to me, the sense of our  life is creativity and people  connecting together, but in  order to be able to do that,  we need  to become more courageous  as a society.  That's my belief.  I think so, very much so.  And also, we need to be  building bridges to people  who think differently than  us.  So a lot of things that I've  done have been to reach out  to the police, or reach out to  various Republicans, or  people who are on a different perspective than  I am, but maybe we can  align on healing trauma, on  healing people who are  suffering.  So the police, who I thought  for a long time of my life, in  some ways still the case,  that the police are the  predator and I'm the prey  from my use of drugs.  But at the same time, the  police have some of the  most difficult jobs in  America, in the world, and  they're often very  traumatised and they're not  told to deal with their  trauma.  They're told to just stuff it  down.  So I've gone to the  International Association of  Chiefs of Police Conference  of 10,000 police chiefs and  police senior people from all  over the world.  And we presented a small  talk on MDMA therapy to  healing trauma in veterans  and police.  And this was now during  Trump's first term.  And he decided to speak also  at this International  Association of Chiefs of  Police just the day before.  And they scheduled his time  exactly the time that I was  going to speak, several of us,  about MDMA.  So we get there, and there  are thousands and  thousands of people in a line  to go see Trump.  And we go to our room,  which is for 350 people, and  there's only 20 people there.  But it turned out that one of  them was a police officer  who was also a therapist.  And at the end of the talk,  he said, someone who was  in my unit has recently  committed suicide.  And if MDMA could help, I'd  like to learn to be an MDMA  therapist.  So we said, sure, we will let  you go through our training  program.  And he was featured, and  this is part of changing the  culture too.  So Netflix documentary  about Michael Pollan's book,  How to Change Your Mind,  the one on MDMA ends with  this particular police officer  receiving MDMA and the  legal protocol that we have  to train therapists with their  own MDMA experience.  And he got approval from his  police chief to be on the  documentary.  And so the whole end of it is,  a police officer receiving  MDMA to help other police  officers.  So that message to society is  so powerful.  It's not just the criminals or  it's not just the hippies.  Now the police need it and  the veterans need it.  So it's to go where the  suffering is in the culture.  And if you can address that,  then things can open up.  So that's where I've been  trying to reach out.  And about, well,  Rebekah Mercer,  people may know that her  family, and she owned  Cambridge Analytica, which  was the company in England  that scraped all the data  from Facebook and used it  with the Russians to try to  target certain districts.  But she offered a million  dollars for MDMA research.  And her only condition was  that it goes to veterans.  And I got lots and lots of  criticism for taking money  from Rebekah Mercer, who  in many ways has done  things that I don't agree with, and mostly  everything I don't agree  with. And I said, well, you're  making her look good.  She's doing something good.  I said, well, people are not  100% good or 100% evil.  If she wants to do good, let  her do it.  I want to help her do good.  And so I had one  opportunity at a Passover  Seder in Boston.  These friends of mine, our  family friends, have these  big Passover Seders.  They're all major scientists.  Passover?  Passover.  Passover, yeah.  Yeah, so it's supposedly the  Jews leaving Egypt and  Moses. So it's a long dinner, lasts  hours and hours.  And we were sitting next to  this couple that I didn't  recognise, the elderly  couple.  And I said to them, are you  a scientist?  And he said, no, I'm a judge.  And then his wife started  talking about how she'd  written a book about  parents who have children  with a life-threatening illness  and how you deal with the  grief.  And how you deal with the  emotions of having a child  that might die.  And so then we started  talking about MDMA.  And we started talking  about the therapy that I'm  doing.  And then we started talking  about marijuana for help for  different things.  And after a couple hours,  I finally realised he's not just  a judge.  He's a US  Supreme Court judge.  It was Stephen Breyer.  And I said, are you the  Stephen Breyer?  He said, yeah.  I said, well, I have an ethical  question to ask you.  And it's about building  bridges with people on the  other side.  I said, I've been criticised for  taking this money from  Rebekah Mercer, but I think  it was important to do.  What do you say?  And what he said was that  the essence of democracy is  trying to find common  ground with people with  whom you may disagree  with on anything else,  everything else, but you try  to build on what you can  share.  Yes.  And in this highly polarised  world, there's not enough of  that.  And everybody is  demonising the other side  and they're not willing to  look for common ground.  And so I feel that the US  Supreme Court judge  approved my approach for  taking money from both  sides, from Republicans.  And now we have really  good contacts inside the  Trump administration for  people who are pro  psychedelics.  And we don't agree with  them on much of anything  else, but that we can agree  on.  Indeed, we are being  separated so much.  We need to really do the  opposite.  What I believe is that what is  a really good strategy, even  people with whom we  cannot agree at all, try to  look at the problem from  their point of perspective to  just understand.  And then there can be,  I have, I do have actually  some experience with  discussion when there is like  totally polarised opinions,  but after some talks, you try  to understand the point of  the person and you get to  the essence of the  misunderstanding.  Usually, it might be, okay, we  don't understand here, but  there is both sides have  a respect.  Because it's just different  opinion on some subject.  So this, I believe, is just the  healing that we need.  Yeah, I actually think that is  the key, because to ask  people to explain why they  think something, rather  than saying, oh, I disagree  with you, you're wrong.  Why do you think that way?  I think that is the most  positive way to build  a bridge and to understand  each other.  Exactly.  So, Rick, please, if you tell  our audience where they  can look at your work,  the great work that you  have been doing and how  they can perhaps help and  support or raise the voice.  Thank you.  Well, our website is  maps.org. And we have, you know,  we have one of the first  websites in the world,  actually. We have an  enormous amount of  information.  There was actually in  around 1994, there was  a man, he contacted me and  he said that he and his  wife had a tragedy.  They had a son in his  teenage years, he died in  a motorcycle accident.  And the only thing that  helped them through this  was MDMA to deal with their  grief.  And he said he wanted to  offer MAPS a website.  And I said, what's a website?  So we're like the number 600  website in the world.  Ah, 94’,  I remember I came to  the US my first time was fall 94’  and there was already  website  And it was right at the beginning.  So I would say that there's  so much information on the  MAPS website that people  can learn all the projects, all  what we're doing.  We've had some major, we  haven't mentioned this yet,  but we've had the biggest  conferences in the world in  psychedelics.  We had Psychedelic Science  2023, where we had 12,400  people.  And we had Psychedelic  Science 2025, where we had  8,000 people.  But each of those, we had  like 300 speakers and all of  those are videotaped and  they're all available for free  on the website.  So if you want to see the  latest in all the different  areas of psychedelic  research, just go to the  maps.org website for free  and you can access all of  these talks and all of our  protocols.  I really believe in  transparency.  That's what we need.  So we've got our protocols.  We've got our  communications with the FDA.  We've got the treatment  manual.  All the different resources are  there  for people, and it's not just  about MDMA.  We have a psychedelic  bibliography of thousands of  psychedelic papers, all sorts  of things to help people.  Great opportunity for people  to learn and to overcome  any possible fear from  psychedelics.  Well, I guess I would say that  there's a certain fear that's  justified because it's scary  when you're letting go of  how you normally see  things.  But it's not like paralysing  fear.  But it's the fear of the  unknown, you know, that  there's something…  Here's what I learned in my  Ibogaine trip.  I did a combination of LSD  and Ibogaine in 1985.  It was one of the most  important experiences of my  life.  But a lot of it was about this  idea that this, you know,  doing new things, you're  always making mistakes.  And you're always having to  learn from your mistakes.  And during this experience,   I learned that the self-critical  part that many of us have is  connected in me and it was  connected to this  self-hatred.  Like, oh, I should be better.  I should be perfect.  Oh, I made all these  mistakes.  And then I'm down on  myself.  But what I realised is that  I need to separate out the  self-criticism from the  self-hatred  and make the self-criticism  an ally for quality control.  And so that's what  I managed to do during this  LSD Ibogaine experience.  This is great.  So I think that this trying of  new and the fear of doing  new things that we're not  always going to do them  right.  And what also in my  experience what we can to  some level manage if things  that are coming, if they are  negative, they are hard,  just really look at it from the  other side, what it brings us  positive, and then we can  really decrease the  negativities in life.  Yeah, actually, there's been  some surveys that I just,  about people who have been  going through a psychedelic  retreat.  This is like a thousand  people surveys.  And what they say over time  is that when you sample  them at the very beginning,  like the few days  afterwards, they talk about  how hard things were.  But over the weeks and  months, They start talking  about how much they  learned from the hard things  instead of just how hard it  was.  Now it's, I learned so much  from that.  And I think that's generally  what we see a lot about the  psychedelic therapy is that  sometimes the biggest  lessons are in the most  difficult experiences.  So maybe let me thank you  for this amazing talk and  let's make our wishes for the  world, for our world to heal,  to heal from the worst  traumas and  for us, people to be able to  understand each other, to  support each other and to  make the giant jump in our  evolution and become  planet Earth, where people  are connected and can  support each other and be  creative.  Yeah, I think that vision is  achievable.  And I think if we have that  vision, because we also  think that a lot of the people  that are with the opposing  views, they're also suffering  in different ways, and they  have their own traumas, and  how do we help them?  And people, I mean, people  do suffer from negativities,  right?  It's so much better, even  your opponent, to just try to  talk to him or her and  smooth out the boundaries.  Yeah, I think it was Gandhi  that said this, but I'm not  sure, but he said the real  way, the only real way to  defeat your enemy is turn  him into your friend.  Ah, yeah.  Yeah, that's a good one.  Yeah.  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Thank you so much. 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Des37nefkAk (https://youtu.be/Des37nefkAk) ===

(ambient music) - MAPS is the
Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies, started 33 years ago. And its purpose was as a
non-profit pharmaceutical company to try to bring psychedelic-assisted 
psychotherapy into legal practice, medical
practice by prescription. MAPS is expanding at an incredible rate. We're expanding, not
just the number of people that are being treated for PTSD, but we're expanding into
other indications of MDMA. And sadly, what's also
expanding is the need. So, the mission of MAPS is
really mass mental health and the mainstreaming and the
acceptance of psychedelics both for medical purposes
and for a whole range of personal growth. With your donation, you'll
be able to help us make MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD into a prescription medicine. And that will help save lives. And if everybody just gives what we can we'll be able to achieve amazing things. We'll be partners and healing partners in repairing the world and partners in bringing forth
new healing technologies.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: vb0vKkIAGKs (https://youtu.be/vb0vKkIAGKs) ===

[Music] it's so nice to have you at wisdom 2.0 finally I think we've tried for a number of years but it's a real pleasure to have you and um it's interesting that that panel that just happened between us and um how people have taken a really traumatic experience and um and are using it to heal and I know that's a big focus of maps um on really understanding how do we heal trauma um but because not everybody in here might know of maps I thought we could just start by um possibly us uh uh with a short definition of the organization and kind of what your areas of focus are yeah uh I guess first I i' really just like to thank you sain and all of you for doing the work you've done to try to help um mainstream mindfulness and make that something more accepted and that's laid the groundwork for us who are now trying to mainstream psychedelic and so if if it wasn't the work that you've done we wouldn't be quite in the spot that we're in now we'll take full credit so Maps is basically a nonprofit pharmaceutical company focused on psychedelics and marijuana um I learned about MDMA in 1982 when it was known as Adam which was a um code name for its use in therapy circles but it was also starting to be sold as ecstasy and so it was clear that it was doomed eventually this was during Nancy Reagan uh Ronald Reagan the escalation of the drug war again and so I started a nonprofit in ' 84 before maps to try to protect the therapeutic use of MDMA and we sued the DEA we actually won the case but the DEA um ignored the ruling of the judge that the therapeutic use of MDMA should stay legal and in that defeat I recognized that there was only one way to bring uh MDMA and psychedelics really back into acceptance and that was going to be through science and medicine focused on healing and I also recognized that the governments weren't going to pay for this research the pharmaceutical companies weren't going to pay for it the the major foundations weren't going to pay for it so Maps then began to be the the vehicle to try to do this to try to really do a nonprofit psychedelic and medical marijuana pharmace itical company great what I didn't realize is that no drug had ever been made into a medicine by a nonprofit at that time because of the resources it takes because of the resources it takes and because um the pharmaceutical companies were um you know moving forward in a lot of different directions so the actual the first drug that ever became a medicine in a nonprofit context was um the abortion pill ru46 wow and that was in 1999 and that was the John Rockefeller the third's population Council and Warren Buffett was one of the major funders oh okay so controversial drugs abandoned by the pharmaceutical industry are now starting to be taken up by nonprofits beautiful and so one of your focus has been healing um severe PTSD yeah and using MDMA can you chose tell us a little bit about why you chose that particular um situation and why you chose that particular intervention and also what you're finding from some of that research because I believe it's un several the trials have been going for several years yeah so what I what I like to say is that um we don't do science we do political science and by that I mean that when you think about taking something that's been marginalized and suppressed you have to think carefully about who the patients are that you want to treat and what drug that you want to bring forward so really it's about psychedelic medicine but MDMA is the most gentle of all the psychedelics and one of the things that we believe to be true is that therapists and psychiatrists who would work with these drugs will be more effective if they've done them themselves and so there's more resistance among psychiatrists and psychotherapists to taking psilocybin or LSD or a major psychedelic because of the ego dissolution the challenges of it then there are if they were to take MDMA that MDMA is more gentle more reassuring it doesn't really dissolve the ego in that same way that the classic psychedelics do so MDMA was the choice for the drug that would uh hopefully make it through the system first okay then we had to think about what was the proper patience yes yes and so MDMA is terrific for trauma if you were to um design a drug to treat post-traumatic stress disorder MDMA would be it because of the various physiological things that it does and you also wanted to explain what actually MDMA is so feel free to work that in yeah okay so what what we need though is highly sympathetic patient populations and so we know that trauma drives addiction trauma drives Escape but addicts in our culture or people that are dependent on drugs are more the other and so we felt that we couldn't start there um we also thought about working with people near the end of their lives who were dying who were scared of dying and that's a really good population because in in general people are more scared of death than they are of psychedelics so if you can work with psychedelics to help them deal with their fears of death yeah um so that was one choice of population but in our culture we have such a um respect for veterans um who and there's such a public issue now with veterans with trauma the thing that people most miss a lot is that there's way more people with childhood sexual abuse with adult rape and assault with uh PTSD than there are veterans and so we are including of all all of our studies people with PTSD from any cause but what gets the most attention is the work with the veterans right and so what what PTSD does is PTSD changes your brain and if you have PTSD you're not thinking as rationally anymore you're emotionally driven and so the prefrontal cortex activity um actually is reduced over normal brain and you're also hyper sensitive to fears to uh triggers to anything that reminds you of the trauma so the amydala the portion of our brain that really responds to fear is hyperactive in people with PTSD and there's problems with memory storage with PTSD it seems like the trauma is always reexperiencing it's never quite in the past it's always about to rehen and you see the whole world through the filter of the past trauma yeah so MDMA does the opposite we actually had one veteran in our study say PTSD changed my brain MDMA changed it back so what MDMA does is it increases activity in the frontal cortex so you can be more logical and store memories um in more context it reduces activity in the amydala so that you don't react with such fear to painful emotions and it increases connectivity between the hippocampus and the amydala where we move memories into long-term storage okay and so it also stimulates serotonin dopamine norepinephrine and hormones of oxytocin and prolactin and so those are the hormones of nursing mothers the hormones that we have when we're in love and that builds the Therapeutic Alliance that builds a certain willingness for the patient to interact with the therapist in a more open and trusting way so all of that is what MDMA does and and we have now just begun um a $28 million experiment that we've raised entirely in donations so this is all nonprofit donations and we're starting what's called phase three um we actually from 1986 when I started Maps the first seven years um we got um rejected for absolutely everything and then we were able to start 1993 with the first safety study and that took us uh through the '90s and then in 2000 we started doing work with PTSD patients and so we basically had 16 years of phase 2 studies in Israel Switzerland Canada and the United States and so phase three is the final stages where you have to prove safety and efficacy in order to get permission to Market a drug and so we've just started phase three um 11 sites in the United States two in Israel and two in Canada and that's where we're going to be spending this $28 million and we anticipate by 2021 by the end of it that we'll have FDA approval for prescription use of MDMA but um what's what's I think even more remarkable um is that progress is actually happening sooner so um there's a program that the FDA has called expanded access and it's otherwise known as compassionate use and what that means is that if a pharmaceutical company is in this case Maps is studying a drug and you have um enough people for phase three um we're going to need between two and 300 people in phase three but we have over 20,000 people on a waiting list wow who want to be in the studies we have over 8,000 therapists who want to go through our training program so the expanded access says that if you have a disease nothing has helped for that and there's a drug being studied for that you should be able to get that on a compassionate basis at your own risk because the drug isn't through the system and at your own cost so we are starting to train therapists to set up sites that are called expanded access sites and they'll be up and running this summer wow so that we're actually going to be a have psychedelic clinics and um my wife is leaving Sunday to do the training yeah yes yes so we're hoping to have a psychedelic clinic in Santa Cruz and so what have been some of the early results that you've seen so far like so why yeah so what in percentage of the of the people with PTSD after the program can you give give us some numbers in terms of what's Happening yeah so the the first thing to say there is what is our treatment so the treatment is 3 and a half months long and it's only three exposures to MDMA and each of them are uh eight hour sessions where people spend the night in the treatment center and it's a male female cotherapy team so it's very labor intensive we started to say that our our operating principle is how do we maximize therapeutic outcome we'll think about practicality expense at a later point but what's the best we can do in a way it was a little bit heartbreaking to see the previous panel because we do have these tools that I think can be incredibly helpful so we have 12 90minut non-drug Psychotherapy sessions in addition to the dayong MDMA session so three before the first session for Preparation and then three of these sessions after each MDMA session for integration and then the two months after the last MDMA session is called the primary outcome measure so what we are saying is that the placebo group is not actually um getting nothing they're getting roughly 42 hours of therapy but without a drug they get a pill that has nothing in it and so we have about 23% um of chronic severe treatment resistant PTSD patients that no longer have PTSD 23% in the trial in the trial in the placebo group from the group okay 23% yeah so when you add MDMA it goes up to 56% wow twice more than twice more than twice as much they no longer have pts they're no longer they no longer qualify for a diagnosis of PTSD okay all right but what we find is that once people learn that you don't need to keep suppressing the trauma that you can process it we do a 12-month followup which is more for insurance companies to see if they'll cover it if the you know initial labor intensive therapy you know persist if it's durable and so people keep getting better so the main number is at the 12mon followup uh 2/3 no longer have PTSD after a year wow after a year wow and then and then a lot of the others have had clinically significant reduction in PTSD symptoms and if we could have given them a fourth session they might you know no longer have ptst as well so and so what's the different what actually changes because you said when they're doing MDMA they still experience their trauma but they experience it differently can you talk about like what that shift is yeah there's um phenomena that's called um fear Extinction and memory reconsolidation and so basically we have um episodic memory and emotional memory and they're linked together from different parts of the brain so when we remember something it's not like we're taking a book off the shelf we're reading the book and then we stick the book on the Shelf it's more like we take the book off the shelf we look at this memory and then we have to rewrite the book to put it back on the Shelf so what happens under MDMA is that people's memory for the trauma is enhanced we've had um various people who would say that one in particular was a firefighter in a fire that um the roof collapsed and about 10 of his associates got killed and he said he remembered exactly what happened but when he took MDMA he realized that there was this whole big most traumatic part that he had complet completely suppressed so the memories come to the surface and the MDMA gives this sense of peacefulness of self-acceptance of often self forgiveness and it helps you place this memory in the past so you're basically swapping out the emotional memories you're swapping out the fear that's always connected to that memory from to to something that's more peaceful you accept that as part of your life as part of your story it's not like you suppress the memory but you're not burdened by it as much so then when you reprint the book of this particular memory and you store it away the next time you remember it you have a clear remembrance of the what actually happened but the emotion has been switched to one of peacefulness and it's in the past so that's this memory reconsolidation part so it opens up a space in you that allows you to have a different relationship to it that a one allows it accept it but also doesn't have the same identification to it is that there's this sense that it would be overwhelming so once the the tra is happening people often have to suppress their emotions to help them survive whatever the event is you have to be calmly thinking how do you get out of this you have to be reacting in a certain way but you can't really break down to process your memories and so there's this um under the influence of MDMA in this setting you're able to really process this memories and fully grieve or fully Express the fears and anxieties a lot of times people well one of the Vets said I don't know why they call this ecstasy because really um very difficult but people will shake or or you know a lot of there's Dr Bessel vandero who's an expert on ptst he wrote a book the body keeps the score but a lot of these traumatic memories are stored in the body as well so the MDMA really facilitates this Mind Body Connection and a lot of this comes out in the body and you told me how was how many V uh every so often commit suicide well um roughly 20 veterans a day kill themselves right um not all from PTSD but a lot from PTSD and there's now roughly a million veterans receiving disability payments from the Veterans Administration for their PTSD and the last time the VA put out numbers of how much that cost it was an average of 20,000 per year per veteran on disability for PTSD so that would be roughly 20 billion million dollars a year that the VA is paying for the emotional consequences of War yeah and so you're you the onee treatment is it it lasts one week the No No was three and a half months so it's this once a month is the 3 MDMA session now a lot of people get better after one session or two but but our standard treatment now is going to be three three MDMA sessions okay and then how about for people out there who like did a lot in College of something and they're like I kind been there I don't need to be doing any more of that um because uh and they see The Addictive nature of certain um drugs how do you balance this path of the both the potential danger and then also the potential healing components of it is it the fact that it's done with a therapist and it's done in this certain set in setting um so how do you navigate that um with people who are like cool I'm just going to go heal myself take some let's go take some acid and heal well I I think a lot of people can heal themselves and I think that actually points to a bigger bigger message which is that what we're trying to do as a strategy but the bigger goal is mass mental health and mass spirituality so it's about um using MDMA for PTSD as a way for the culture to see that under certain context there's more benefits than risks to open up in general to psychedelics then ideally eventually have people have these unitive spiritual experiences that have all sorts of political implications that's but as far as this idea of recreational or celebratory or addictive potential um the the key thing when people take drugs for recreational purposes is they only want to have a good time they're doing it for um for good feelings but that's very dangerous in some ways because when difficult things come up if you address them and work through them that can be very healing but if you suppress them so you sort of are with on the one hand bringing them to the surface with this drug that's sort of changing you could say the barrier the membrane between the conscious and the unconscious and more comes to the surface but if you try to suppress the difficult experiences you can end up feeling worse for months or years so it's not inherently therapeutic these are just tools and it's the context in what they're used so we say MDMA assisted psychotherapy but in that context we track people and we don't see them developing long-term addictive patterns they go back to it they don't see it as a fun escape but I think that there is a lot of healing that's done in celebratory contexts but we have to be careful to talk about the integration so I think that's the other big part is that when you take drugs in a recreational setting people are looking for the short-term experience but that's it they're not thinking what do I bring back what do I integrate so that my Baseline is different right so it's it's really about the intentions right because otherwise you have a certain high and then the next day you have a headache and you're back to the Baseline again yeah and you don't think about it you thought oh that was beautiful why I was to process that but how can I do that without the drug so in a way what we're doing with psychedelic assisted Psychotherapy is an anti-drug strategy you know it's from a pharmaceutical company perspective they want you to take a drug every day they want it to control the symptoms but not cure the problem and they want you to take it for years and years that's a good description of a lot of the drugs for mental illness few and then ideally being free from drugs right afterwards right and 56% after a year or well 68% 68% wow yeah 23 yeah um so we're out of time this has G so fast um but you had this Vision I find it wild that you had it 30 years ago You' been doing I actually had this Vision in 1972 so I just turned 65 but when I was 18 you know I did take this workshop with Jan and yeah and one funny part about it was that I was just a super shy 18-year-old and so they would disappear after the sessions we wouldn't see them between the sessions so we had this idea oh they're so spiritual they're doing Tantra in her room and and you and I know we have to go and the people backstage are telling me to go but um what was your sense though of I mean who when I heard about it 10 years ago cuz you're based in I'm like they're that's crazy always they're never going to get that legal but go for it um but you had this sense of that there was something therapeutic and there was do you know where that came from is your own experience and um I was um retrospectively figuring it out that I was very deeply traumatized by stories of the Holocaust I'm from a Jewish Family born in 53 shortly after the war and distant relatives killed and that just terrified me that thought it was about the murderous nature of the human heart um and then I was further traumatized uh by the Cuban Missile Crisis where now you're told maybe you'll survive this nuclear war maybe you can hide under your desk and you can come out afterwards Duck and Cover and then the final thing for me was um the Vietnam War so I was in the last years of the lottery and I studied a lot about um nonviolent resistance and decided that the best strategy would be to um not register for the draft and have them put me in jail and not not run away I wasn't the conscientious objector because you have to be a pacifist against all wars so my parents were sympathetic but they said you're going to be a felon you're never going to be able to have a normal job you can't have a license as a doctor or lawyer as a felon and I said that's a sad price to pay but I'm willing to pay it and then when I started doing LSD and I thought that this sense of connection Beyond ego as we're talking about this um that that the political implications of this mystical spiritual um you could is profound and that's what animated a lot of what was going on in the 60s so I thought okay I could be an underground psychedelic therapist because I don't need a license for that and so it was that intimation and that's what led me to reach out to Stan and so I I felt that um a lot of people get ideas though and they don't spend 30 years pushing it so so there's something in you that has a 30-year steadfast determination because I get a lot of great ideas too and how many other people have had great ideas like 30 years7 since um I was I think it was fear so I've been able to turn fear into an ally so it's the fear of what people will do unless we find these tools to help them break through the separateness break through the tribalism break through and and understand and appreciate our commonality so it was the fear that we can I mean look at what's happening to the environment I mean the the fear is real and and it was that fear that's drove me this whole time beautiful thank you thank you so much thank you s thank you all

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: TjIpd2O0gY4 (https://youtu.be/TjIpd2O0gY4) ===

What do you see as potential uses for LSD and how we should be thinking about it? >> I think LSD can enhance psychotherapy for a wide range of different things. But the essence of this LSD experience is the dissolving of the sense of self. And in modern neuroscience terms, we talk about it as the default mode network, which is our sort of resting state that's sort of looking at what this body, what this individual life, what we need, what are our priorities and we filter information according to what's important to us. So LSD weakens that filtration system. So you're kind of flooded by information and you're no longer oriented according to the sense of self. >> So that's where people talk about difficult trips or scary trips because you're losing your normal sense of orientation. But when you are supported in a safe way and you can let that go, then you can feel connected. I do know, you know, we're in LA. I live in LA and there's a lot of people coming to LA from all over the country that uh provide these options. Yeah. >> Um people are going to Mexico to try different options as well. Um in the plant medicine space and South America. Yeah. Um, but I also think that, you know, uh, you barring safety concerns and all these other things that we can talk about later, people have need to have a clear understanding of what the options are and what they're useful for. So, I'd love to just kind of go through that list with you if you're if you're up for it. >> I think it's really good. >> Yeah, I think it's I think it' be very helpful for my audience. So, let's start with LSD because I think LSD is probably one of the most powerful psychedelics out there. Um, what do you see as potential uses for LSD and how we should be thinking about it? Well, there's um Stannis Grath who is the 95 um the world's most uh experienced and respected LSD researcher. He had a book LSD psychotherapy. >> So, what is LSD good for in psychotherapy? >> What is psychotherapy good for? I think LSD can enhance psychotherapy for a wide range of different things. But the essence of this LSD experience is the dissolving of the sense of self. >> And in modern neuroscience terms, we talk about it as the default mode network, which is our sort of resting state that's sort of looking at what this body, what this individual life, what we need, what are our priorities. >> Um, and we filter information according to what's important to us. >> So LSD um weakens that filtration system. So you're kind of flooded by information >> and you're no longer oriented according to the sense of self. >> So that's where people talk about uh difficult trips or scary trips because you're losing your normal sense of orientation. >> But when you are supported in a safe way and you can let that go, then you can feel connected. It >> it's almost like certain parts of our brain of consciousness that have developed over billions of years, you knock them out and then you're connected to these deeper ways of thinking and ways of being and different. So LSD >> in the 60s, the two main uses of it were for alcohol use disorder and for people that were u facing uh terminal illness and were frightened about dying. >> True. and that you can get a different sense about the continuity of of energy or or so and you you can just see death as kind of like a natural part of life. >> Um so but >> the FDA has just has recently declared LSD as a breakthrough therapy for generalized anxiety disorder. So this is in relatively lower doses. M >> with some support but not a whole lot. >> Mhm. >> Um you know I've talked a lot about um you know MDMA for post-traumatic stress disorder. >> Sure. >> The very first work ever of a psychedelic for PTSD >> was in 1961 and it was by a Dutch psychiatrist Dr. Yan Bastians and it was for LSD for concentration camp syndrome. >> Oh. So people that had been in the concentration camps >> um and some of them had been Dutch resistance fighters and then they were part of the Dutch government. So Bastians was the last person in the world that still had legal permission to use LSD. >> Wow. >> Up until the 80s. >> Wow. >> Um and there's an incredible book if people are interested. It's called Shviti. >> Si Vi TI. Shviti a vision. and it's by an Israeli Holocaust survivor who went to the Netherlands for LSD therapy. And he talks about what four of his LSD sessions were like. >> Wow. >> It's an incredible book. >> That sounds incredible. Yeah. >> And one of the more um profound parts of it um is where this concentration camp survivor was able to see out of the eyes of one of the Nazi perpetrators. >> Wow. And he could see, and this was the um kind of disturbing thing, but that he could see um that any of us could end up in that position, either victim or perpet if the if the social pre not everybody, but if the social pressures are enough >> um and you're threatened yourself with um torture or murder or whatever, you know, unless you do these things that So um that was this big breakthrough that that it wasn't that um >> there's these completely evil people that are doing this is that they're acting in evil ways, but they've had their >> core humanity kind of drained out of them by the social systems. >> So the thing about LSD for PTSD is that it doesn't reduce the fear. >> It's the way that MDMA does. So that >> but LSD can be quite helpful for PTSD. >> Sure. um it can be helpful um for in some cases um a whole range of different things. So there there's um treatment resistant depression, depression. >> Um there's when people have obsessivecompulsive disorder, um Stan Grath has talked about how they're so controlling that they can even control LSD. Yeah. >> So he said he talked about one person that he gave a thousand micrograms which is an enormous dose >> to somebody with severe OCD and he was able to play chess. >> Wow. >> While >> while on >> while on LSD >> because it's such a rigid control. Yeah. >> Cuz they're so scared of losing control. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Um but if you can help people feel comfortable losing control like that, then you can get at >> the urges that drive them to do the OCD. Ah, >> so I' I'd say LSD has a wide range of uses, but because it dissolves the the the sense of self. It's really good for people with terminal illness. >> Yeah. >> Or for existential distress, >> it can be helpful for PTSD. Um like when people have depression, it's a lot of rumination, the same kind of patterns, and LSD >> can break you out of those patterns >> in some ways. But you need a very um skilled support system because um there is that fear of losing your sense of orientation. >> Yeah. Yeah. And you know the other part of this of course just just to touch on this real quick is the neuroplasticity effects of LSD. You know, I know so many stories like you know, Steve Jobs for example, right? Like he he used LSD and um he famously said that, you know, this is what opened up his mind to be creative and even form companies like Apple and Pixar and all the things he did. And so there's tremendous benefit there as well. But then how do you find someone to activate um that side of your brain? You're not using it for treatment of a disorder. you're using it for the creativity aspects of it. Is there people that can help you through that as well? >> Well, >> that process. >> Well, I think that the um there was work in the 60s by a fellow Jim Fatiman and Willis Harmon and others and this was using both masculine and LSD for creativity. >> Okay. >> And they would take scientists and um people in different industries that had kind of a problem to solve. Okay. and they would bring them into small groups and they would do relatively lower doses >> of LSD um but but enough so that you would be thinking creatively >> so there is a lot of good examples of um LSD and masculine for problem solving >> um the issue is that if you use high enough doses you may go beyond this problem solving into your own issues that you can't just abstractly thinking about a problem >> so you have to be prepared to both do therapy and in those moments that people are not wrapped up with kind of an issue have them think about whatever it is and that's where the lower doses can be helpful in that way. There's a particular study that was with psilocybin. So psilocybin is similar to LSD but more embodied, >> right? >> More grounded. Um but it was called semantic priming. >> And what that means is that um it's like you prime somebody with a word. So I say day, you say night. >> I say sun, you say moon. You know, we have all these kind of patterned reactions >> to certain kind of words, >> right? And when people are under the influence of psilocybin, when you give them a word, they have a wider range of associations to that word. They're not stuck in this simple pattern. >> Sure. Sure. >> Which suggests that you're more creative. You're you're able to access wider range of associations with particular ideas >> and maybe then you can see new solutions to problems that you had previously been unable to solve. >> Right. Right. So psilocybin might be another good alternative for people that are looking for those creative moments or creative solves. >> Yeah. Yeah. Very much so. So psilocybin is LSD is like 10 12 hours something like that or you know 8 to 12 hours. Psilocybin is more like 6 hours. >> And it has um just um similar kind of ego dissolution uh but not quite to the extent of LSD. And because it's so embodied and and grounded that you know it's >> you're LSD is a little bit more ethereal >> but psilocybin um >> can be very helpful for creativity for for thinking in in new ways. >> Yes. Yes. >> And you know I've done some of these. >> Well I was about that. What do you say? Yes. I've never done NLSD, but I will say with psilocybin um definitely, you know, invokes a lot of creativity, a lot of thinking outside the box. Can be also a lot of fun, but also can be very negative if done in the wrong environment, which I've also experienced myself. So, you know, that's why I just warned my patients, just be careful about the environment, who you're doing it for. >> Could you say a bit what did you mean by wrong environment? >> Um, so I was um using it at a party. It was a party. I didn't know anybody and it was a kind of a >> the people there were like not my kind of people. They were darker and more negative and so I kind of got stuck in there and I couldn't I couldn't leave and >> I did not feel good. >> I see. >> Yeah. I felt very stuck and it felt like time just stopped and I couldn't get out and it was a little bit traumatic and so I didn't do it again for a very long time. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So, um that's not that uncommon because you're you're um >> you're vulnerable. You're feeling uncertain and to the the key is feeling safe to go into these difficult spaces and if you don't feel safe then you just block it and then you can end up Yeah. worse off. >> Yeah. Yeah. Um you know, going back to what you said about um the fear of death, another another um >> one that I've tried is DMT. And um you know it was it was a very positive experience for me because I did do it with someone who was very skilled in it. The whole experience only lasted about an hour. So I didn't feel like you know it was this prolonged period I was in the experience. But >> you know I think a lot of people describe it as a near-death experience but in a very positive way to where you're open >> to um um to moving on to the next thing whatever it might be. Um, and just even today, like this was five years ago. I feel like I'm not as fearful of death as I was >> prior to this, you know. >> And and can you say how did that what made it so that that experience impacted your perception of death? >> The entire experience was me being surrounded by the people I love the most in the most loving and caring um way while I was kind of leaving my body, right? And um it was so beautiful because um you know I thought about the people around me, the people that are closest to me, but also what was I leaving behind like my children, um my work in my field and it just made me much more comfortable with the thought of death as not being kind of the end but also a very >> you know maybe a new beginning. >> Wow. You know, St. SR has talked about how when he started working with LSD um in the 1950s um 55 I think it was that um they were um he was in training to be a psychiatrist and they were working with people I think you had to work with a few of them before you could have your own LSD experience >> and he saw people that um confused this uh ego dissolution with physical death. So, it can be very scary for some people as they see that they're letting go. And then um he talked about it when it came his turn to take LSD. Even though he'd seen the same process before, >> for a period of time, he convinced himself that when he was young, he had a special illness and that changed his body chemistry. And so, even though nobody else was dying, he actually was dying >> because of this allergy that he developed to LSD because of this thing. And then over a while he he worked his way through it. >> Yeah. >> I think with DMT um it's um usually there there's different ways but it's often smoked. >> And one of the um >> incredible innovations that we have now going on is vape pens. >> So now there are DMT vape pens. And people may have also heard of 5 MO DMT. >> So there's different kinds of DMT but DMT is the only psychedelic that's endogenous to our body. >> I did not know that. Okay. >> Yeah. It's it's um it's not exactly clear what it does >> in the brain, but but there is some amounts of DMT in the brain. Um, some people have speculated that it's released when you die or it's in your pineal gland or I don't think this is really confirmed any of that, but um, it kind of really more rapidly you could say, than um, LSD or psilocybin just dissolves your sense of self and then you're um, >> when you smoke it, it it can be 15 or 30 minutes and then it takes a while to kind of come back as you said, like an hour. Um, the 5me DMT people may have heard about the Sonor and Desert Toad. Sure. >> It's a venom that comes from this toad that has this that's even more powerful >> than DMT. >> And that's where um I I've experimented I I've done it a long time ago, but I also been a little bit a couple years ago started looking at the vape pens. And you can use, you know, low, medium, and high doses as you're adjusting to this ego dissolution, >> right? um DMT dimethylryptoamine >> is the main active ingredient in iawasa. So people have probably heard about drinking iwaska. >> Um but the reason that um IA works is DMT is inactivated by uh enzymes in your stomach. >> Okay. But there's an MAOI inhibitor in the Iwasa that makes the DMT orally active. >> Oh, okay. >> And then and then it lasts for several hours too, >> right? >> Um, so DMT the form of which you take a drug matters a lot. >> You know what's your the route of administration? What are the routes of administration? So >> yeah, because me when I smoked it, it was very different than doing an Iawaska experience. Yeah. >> But it's the same drug. You're saying >> it's the same drug. >> Oh, okay. Interesting. >> Yeah. because the the MEOI inhibitor um or the MAI it um it itself just really makes it so that the DMT isn't dissolved as active. Yeah. >> So it can last longer and generally um the longer you're in a psychedelic state um the more chance you have to turn it into a story and learn about it and connect it to your life. the DMT and the 5 MO DMT are just completely out of your story. And yeah, >> you know, I felt the first time I smoked DMT, I was like >> u or this this was actually the first time I smoked five amo DMT. I felt like I was blasted to the middle of the sun. >> Yes. >> And it was just fantastic because it was this sense of this constant energy being produced. >> Right. And what it left me with from that one experience um was this sense that I'm never fully trapped. >> That there's always this ability to bring something new. >> Yeah. >> You know, from this kind of this like the big bang or something, something out of nothing. There's always >> this chance >> for for something new to enter the system, >> right? And so at least for me, my 5 MO trip was really um encouraging in a way. It was inspiring, >> right? >> But it's it's it's not part of, oh, this happened when I was three or four or 10 or Well, it's just like, oh, now I'm in the middle of the sun. >> Yeah. >> It's it's unusual. >> Yeah, it really really is. It's a very special experience. A lot of people are doing now, too. Yes. >> And so I'd love for you to talk about like what are the potential uses for iaska. >> Okay. Well, again, um the way that iawaska has been kind of traditionally used in Brazil and Peru where it really came from um is these combinations of spirituality and and medicine. >> Yeah. >> You know, we tend to divide this is spiritual, this is medicine. >> But um it can be used for um addiction, for dependence on different substances. It can be used for depression. Um it's often used just for the normal conflicts of life because these churches, these Iawaska churches, people will will often participate in church services once a month or so. >> So it's become something that they do a lot. But but I would say that um and the different churches have different approaches to how they >> um contain or explore this space. Um, but it's it's often used for people to deal with um somebody they loved has died or that they were sick themselves or just your um you have these different conflicts and the can help you see them from a different perspective. So >> to to be uh forgiving or to forgive yourself or to forgive others. So it's I would say that it's this is kind of an unusual um outcome but for me the first time I ever did Iwasa um it was in unao de vegetital context >> and people are sitting down and at different points people will >> um they call it the ikaros sort of the songs >> that the shaman sing but but this would be different people would be singing a song their prayer they would sort of say it but sing it kind of and I thought how beautiful that people can express themselves in song. And I always felt like I was a terrible singer and and this was um 25 years ago and I had young kids um not quite 25 years ago but like 10 years ago or 15 sorry 15 years ago and um and I felt w how wonderful it is that people can express themselves. So I uh went off and took singing lessons. >> That's great. that that was how I integrated my first Iwasa experience. >> The second one was a little bit more troublesome and I'll say that again this points to the context more as as being much more important. So this was this um the second experience in the UN dev. This was before they won the Supreme Court case. >> Okay. and they uh we're preparing to do that and they said you know just to make sure we're making it so that people can come twice but then you have to become a member of the church so we can say >> and so the second time I went they were telling the story of the church >> and um the story was that um King Solomon left Jerusalem and went to Brazil >> and told them how to put these plants together >> and then hightail it back to Jerusalem. Mhm. >> And I'm like, "Okay, I understand. Metaphor. Somebody smart. You guys are brilliant. You figured this out." >> And they're like, "No, no, that's not a metaphor. That's what happened." >> And I'm like, "You got to be joking." I mean, so you can um encase in this kind of wide openen spiritual experience, you can wrap it into certain kind of dogmas and certain kind of >> right >> contexts. Um, and in order for the Iwasa churches to survive, they're called syncric churches, >> okay? >> Because of the concistadors and all that, they had to merge with the Christian church, >> okay, >> in different ways. So, so they have all these um, >> you know, they they talk about Jesus a lot and stuff, even though they came from these indigenous cultures in the jungles. >> Um, but they've adopted some of the worst parts. So, they're homophobic, hierarchical, patriarchal. M >> so you would think that this freeing psychedelic experience a good example of it is just to think about lava coming out of a volcano and then it hardens >> right >> in certain ways and that's that's when it becomes an institution you have this like >> explosion of of spiritual material but then often it hardens so >> I think um >> the the experiences that I had the best with Iaska were actually in Brazil at a retreat where I was speaking but it was done in a therapeutic way. >> Yeah. >> So, it was a bunch of people in a group >> lying down at night through an all night ceremony, but each of us had our own experience. >> Although we had common music, we'd raise our hands if we needed help to go to the bathroom. >> But but that felt to me more useful >> than trying to be part of a um kind of a group service with certain kind of beliefs sort of baked in. >> Yeah. that that's what you're saying like when you have these baked in beliefs that you have to like kind of listen to or subscribe to, you go down that rabbit hole and it become a negative experience versus a positive because now you're just focused on that. >> Yeah. Well, particularly if you like I can't believe that. >> Yeah. Exactly. Okay. Yeah. And the people that have had very positive experiences with that I know is very similar to what you were saying. They would go to Brazil or somewhere in Mexico and there's a group therapy. everyone has their own experience and yeah and is generally very positive. Um I will say there's a few people that I've seen um in the last five six years that >> tend to do this I think too often like they're going back once a month once every other month because they just love it so much and then they >> come back after the third or fourth time and now they're seeing things or they're just you know not themselves anymore. So is there kind of like a optimal number of times to do this? >> I I wouldn't say optimal number of times, but I would say that from my perspective, again, more from the kind of therapeutic than a spiritual perspective, >> is the key thing is to integrate what happened in the psychedelic experience into your daily life. >> And sometimes that can take weeks or months or more, some new insight or something, and you need to integrate it. If you continue to do the psychedelic experience over and over without doing the integration, in a way that can be a running away from doing the integration and you're just dredging up more and more material, but you're not really trying to make it >> change your baseline. >> So, you can imagine that when it's like a community church service, it's more about doing it together than it is about what you bring back. >> Got it. Got So from a therapy point of view, it's about what you bring back, what you integrate it so that you don't need to keep doing the drug. You learn a lesson >> and then you try to >> um incorporate it in in your daily life. >> Right. Right. >> So I I think that there are um no clear limits like oh if you do it x number of times like like I said I learned that if you did when I was young if you did LSD five or six times you were certifiably insane. You know there's there's nothing like that. I would say that's that's really >> it's just what you do with the information you've gained afterwards that really is >> Yeah. And I learned this in a painful way when I first started taking LSD 17 and then 18. >> Um and I had um the wrong idea. I had this idea that the more you take the faster you evolve. >> And I completely misunderstood the importance of the integration. M >> so I would get increasingly lost. It was the opposite of what I was doing it for. >> I would get into these conflicts. I couldn't really resolve them. >> And then when I would come down, it would have been a difficult trip and they say, "Oh, I got to go back there as quickly as I can." And eventually I realized that um this is not working. No. >> And I think it's because my concept is that it's not about what happens during the experience only. It's about what you bring back and how you change your daily life. And I think that's that's where it's grounded and more beneficial. >> Yeah, that's such such great advice. I'd love to just touch real quick on um you know, we talked a lot about MDMA already. I mean, I think everyone should do MDMA at least once. It's a love drug. It is definitely opens you up to more social connection, whether it be with your spouse or your loved one, just with anybody. It's just I've never had a negative experience with MDMA. Um, but I do say that with a caveat that I've only done it two or three times and it's always been with in a positive context with people I love, people I >> Yeah. know well. >> Yeah. So, what we try to say or what we do say is that difficult is not the same as bad. >> Yes. >> And a lot of people confuse that if it's starting to get difficult then it means bad and then they got to shut down. So MDMA can because of the reduction of fear in the amydala >> that you're able to have memories of different traumas in the past or just difficult things come to you or even just think oh my god you know global warming is happening and people are dying here and there you you can it doesn't even have to be your own traumas you just identify with that but that you can have um difficult experiences that um if you open up to them, they can be some of the most beneficial. >> And so I think that's for people to understand. You take MDMA, um, let's say you've been traumatized for something, it's it's not like, oh, everything's fine. It's that you can finally process that emotions cuz a lot of times, I mean, we can understand it particularly when people are being attacked or being, you know, raped or or any kind of physical violence that that you need to focus on survival, right? and you shut down your emotions. But those difficult emotions don't just go away. They can really >> impact you and you need to bring them more to the surface, process them, and then um this memory reconsolidation where they're not always about to happen. They they become part of the past, as I said, part of the background. So MDMMA, particularly when we work with people who are um traumatized from one thing or another, it can be difficult, but if it's in a safe way, it's not bad. >> Yeah. Yeah. And I do know a lot of people that are doing guided therapy sessions using in combination with MDMA and psilocybin to resolve unresolved traumas from the past. >> Yeah. I I want to say that we're we're starting we're working with some researchers at Columbia University, Jay Cvilius. Yep. >> And uh and others. And we're interviewing underground MDMA therapists >> who are doing MDMMA couples therapy >> to find out how they're doing it. >> Ah okay. And then as preparation for preparing a study >> and the most incredible one that I found is that um >> we we haven't talked about epigenetics but but there are um ways in which um things that happen in our life can change our um our bodies in such a way so that what turns on epin genetics is above the genetics. So there's certain things that turn genes on and off. And so Rachel Yehuda who's at um Mount Si in the Bronx VA has done work on um the epigenetics of multigenerational trauma. >> Yeah. >> And she's identified certain kind of um biological markers. And what it looks like is that when you do s, so let's say you're traumatized or you just have inherited multigenerational trauma >> from um however many generations back but from your mother or your father. You've got this >> um sort of set point for fear, anxiety, things like that that when you go through successful therapy, those epigenetic markers can change. >> So this one um couple, it's a husband and wife, they specialize. These are underground MDMA therapists. >> They specialize in working with couples before they conceive a child. >> Yeah. >> To try to work through their traumas and change these epigenetic markers so they don't pass on multigenerational trauma to their kids. >> Yeah. It's so it's so incredible. I mean, the more I learn about epigenetics, it's just so powerful. Uh it's such powerful knowledge to have because even you know we all know that um if the mother eats a bunch of junk food then um the baby might not be as healthy as as if the mother is eating healthy right or not smoking for example. >> But the same is also true for the father and the same is also true for traumas. It's just the on andoff switches get passed from the mother and father to the to the baby. And so these are this is the time to get all of that off kind of cleaned up, right? >> I mean, it's a brilliant beautiful way to think about it that I need to clean my own um epigenetics before I conceive a child. >> Yeah, it's it's pretty amazing. Um, and I I do want to talk about ketamine as well because I think it's very important because ketamine out of everything we've talked about is actually legal and um there are ketamine clinics everywhere um where >> therapists are working with people for treatment resistant depression and even for suicidal ideiation and I think it's it's extremely successful and extremely powerful. >> Well, but but I would say what you just said was where ketamine has worked with therapists, >> right? Most of the ketamine clinics do not provide therapy. >> They're just doing it as a drug >> and consequently um it doesn't work as long. It doesn't it's not as durable and you keep needing more of it. The better if if anybody is thinking of going to a ketamine clinic. I would only go to a ketamine clinic that combined it with therapy. >> Yes. 100%. >> If they're just like a a mill to just sell you the drug over and over, I wouldn't do it. But >> or you might be creating addiction. you you can be creating a dependence and this whole it's not there's >> liver problems things can happen if you do it too much but ketamine is remarkable um the the group that we're working with >> um in San Diego is called um anamory to do the MDMA couples therapy project >> anamory but they currently do ketamine assisted couples therapy >> okay >> so again it all depends on the dose so the um the anesthetic dose where you can be completely operated on. The the reason ketamine is so useful in operating rooms is because it doesn't interfere with your breathing, >> right? >> Um but the the psychedelic dose is like onetenth the anesthetic dose. >> Um and you end up this um moving kind of out of your body, out of your sense of self. Um that's um they call this um in operation they call it the emergent phenomena. >> It's where um most anesthesiologists don't prepare people for this but when the anesthetic dose wears off you pass through a psychedelic phase >> and when you're not prepared for that now all of a sudden you're tripping and you've just it's scary. But children tend not to get scared. So ketamine is used a lot in anesthesia in children. It does. Yeah. >> Because their their minds are just more fluid in a ways. But this breaking the pattern of thought getting out of this self-reerential point um ketamine can be extremely helpful for a wide range of different conditions. It's particularly um spado is for um treatment resistant depression and um psilocybin is being used now for treatment resistant depression, major depression disorder. Um, kenamine. Um, in the late 1990s, the only place in the world that there was any psychedelic being used for any clinical condition was in Russia >> in St. Petersburg and it was ketamine assisted therapy and it was for alcohol use disorder and addiction to heroin. >> And it was by a Dr. Yvghani Kitzky who was part of a a big government hospital. Uh but then ketamine started being used as a party drug in Russia and they shut down the research. >> Wow. >> And so ketamine is now not being used as therapy. But it u has it does have a lot of potential and um I would just again caution people to think about it as a tool for therapy rather than a tool in and of itself. >> Yeah. >> And when you do that work um it can be used for um a wide range of different conditions. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. But because it does kind of um >> t you out of yourself. It's easy to find. There's ketamine clinics all over the place. >> Um finding ones that combine it with therapy is is more of a challenge. >> Yeah. Yeah. But I I agree with you. You have to have someone there as a therapist to help you achieve the outcome you want. Otherwise, you could go backwards or you could get addicted or you can cause liver damage. Lots of other problems. Yeah. And then, you know, um the other one I wanted to ask you about too was um certain groups of people that are addicted to alcohol or addicted to even gambling or addicted to maybe um narcotics, they're going to do Ibec treatments as well. And so, this is something I'm hearing a lot more about now. What are your feelings about Ibe? >> Um one of the most important experiences I ever had of my whole life was uh I gain LSD combination back in 1985. Um so I is a remarkable drug. It's a root from western Africa >> uh from the ibogga plant. So it's um really remarkable. It it has it I does something that no other psychedelic does that we know of >> in that it helps people who are addicted to opiates >> go through the withdrawal >> in just days. that so that you can take people who are addicted to opiates >> and the normal withdrawal is is life-threatening. Sometimes it's really horrible. But when you take an ibane experience, it resets your receptors in a way that LSD or others don't do. >> So ibeane was widely used in clinics for u opiate >> uh dependence. >> Um it's illegal in the United States, but it's legal in Mexico, in Canada, and in much of the world. >> It's not a drug of abuse. If there's any drug that doesn't deserve to be in schedule one, it's ivy. >> I gain, right? >> Um, and now it's being used, and we talked earlier about neuroplasticity. It's being used for traumatic brain injury. >> So now there's a project that's out of Stanford >> um that took um Navy Seals and others who went to Mexico to an Ibegan clinic and it did scans before and after. >> Wow. And it showed that um there is this neuroplasticity that can restore certain kind of functions and help people get over traumatic brain injury. Um but it's also really good for just personal growth for um >> the fear of death, for addiction. Um there's um the bui religion is the one that has really used ibeane in Gabon where it's from. So again it was this combination religion medicine >> um in low doses in Gabon they talk about it as the hunters use it >> to give them um better night vision and more energy and they can stand still while they you know wait for a prey to come by. >> So so much depends on the doses of it. But um >> what's what's we we've talked about bipartisan support. So what's happened is that a lot of um >> Navy Seals who were trained in San Diego >> Sure. >> in there and not that far from Mexico >> and um realized that um the treatment they were getting from the VA wasn't sufficient for a lot of them and they would go down to Mexico for an Ibegan experience and that would be helpful to them in really major ways. And so that um has now been several thousands and thousands of of special operators from the US military have gone down to Mexico for Ibegan. And that's what persuaded Rick Perry, >> who was the former Republican governor of Texas, who was in Trump's first cabinet, >> to get really involved with Ibec because he cared about uh the veterans and and Rick now has done his own Ibegan experience that he's talked about on Joe Rogan >> with Brian Hubbert and he managed to get $50 million from the state of Texas to fund Iane research and other states are trying to do the same. So ibeane is um how do I say it's more guttural it's more instinctual um it is like um LSD or it's like a classic psychedelic >> um but it is very embodied it's very much um longlasting it's the longest lasting it can be like 24 hours or something it it knocks out your sleep usually >> um and what Gul doan I mentioned before about the um the neuroplasticity. She's talked about critical periods where psychedelics >> your brain is more fluid and flexible. And what she's shown is that with ibeane because the ibane experience lasts the longest, >> the critical period lasts several months. >> So this is during the period of time that you can do the integration work where it's particularly successful because your brain is more fluid. >> Um so we originally thought of IBM just as a treatment for opiate addiction. Um but it's got a large number of other uses for PTSD, for depression, for traumatic brain injury. When I did it, um it was um Leo Zeff was what the person we called the secret chief. Oh, >> okay. >> He was the one that Sasha Schulen, who was the chemist who sort of brought back MDMA, would develop all these new drugs and then once he thought they had therapeutic potential, he'd give it to Leo. >> Okay. >> And so Leo was about to retire. This is in the the um middle 70s. He's about to retire. He's done LSD work. He's done I gain work. He's done all this. Um and then he tried MDMA. And um he said, "I'm not going to retire. I got to tell more people about this." Um but 1984 is when I started a a nonprofit before MAPS to try to keep therapeutic use of MDM made legal. In 1985, Leo said, "You're starting to battle the FDA and the DEA and all of this. would you like I be gaining experience to help you work on your own issues so you'll be more effective advocate >> um and I said sure and so when I went to do that though what I hadn't really fully understood is that he administered LSD with ibain the I took it I didn't take ibiggainain I took ibogga >> and the root takes longer to take an effect than when you take the synthesized extract ibane >> um and he didn't want to wait around a lot so the LSD would get stuff happening >> while while he's So it was um one of the most it was like 12 hours of vomiting, one of the most difficult experiences of my life. But it was also one of the very most useful >> because it was about this I would say not an addictive to a substance pattern, but it was more like a self-critical addiction. >> You know, this constant like you didn't do this right, you didn't do that right. And >> and so I felt like, oh, if I can just let go and have this experience, I'll be a more effective advocate, but I'm not able to do that because I'm too scared. And then I would get down on myself for being weak and and and then I would vomit and it would just go over and and I felt like for being Jewish, the imagery I had is that I was being crucified on the cross of self-perfectionism. Mhm. >> And then I realized this 12 hours of just vomiting and um and I I couldn't break through. But I I then called it transcendence through exhaustion. >> I just completely exhausted myself >> and then I just stopped struggling. And then I realized that there's this connection that perfectionism is is at least in me was connected to a fear of death. If I'm perfect, then I'm not human. Then I'm not going to die. Um the other part was, oh, I should be this pedestal. And so, um, what I realized during this period once I stopped the fighting >> was that the self-critical part of the mind is absolutely essential. That's the key to quality. >> That's the key to science is constantly. But if I could separate the self-criticism from the self-hatred, >> then I would have more access to the self-criticism >> and more access to grow and learn. >> And then I realized that I could praise myself for starting something new >> because okay, I did something new. I've never done it before. I didn't do it perfectly. Now I learn something. >> So instead of being down on myself for not doing it perfectly, I could be praising myself for starting something new. Mhm. >> And so that reoriented in my brain this whole constant self-criticism >> and I felt that I had more space in my brain after it. >> Wow. >> I mean it was 24 hours uh >> more than 24 hours. It was like the sec it wasn't until the second night that I could sleep. >> Wow. >> It wasn't until the third day that somebody could pick me up and move me. It wasn't until the fourth day where I felt I could safely drive. >> Wow. But Ibegan has incredible potential >> and now there is going to be um a fair amount of research into it >> and both traumatic brain injury and also substance abuse. >> Yeah. >> Um Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean that that's amazing that that much money got approved for Ibein research. I mean that's going to really move the needle. Yeah. >> Yeah. Very excited. >> Yeah. I I I will say one cautionary thing, which is I had hoped that the $50 million from Texas would be matched by philanthropy >> and therefore it would be done in a public benefit way and turned into a generic. Instead, >> all the Texas universities, they all have incentives. So, it's going to be matched by investor money. So, it's going to be private money. >> Wow. >> Accelerating I mean public money accelerating private drug development. So, it's not quite the way I'd hoped, but it's still good. It will still make an important >> uh psychedelic available to more people. >> You know, you taught me so much about the politics of this, and I really applaud you for, you know, trying to get this not just in front of people's consciousness and know that it's a it's a treatment that's available to them, but also >> the way you've gotten yourself involved in the politics of this and the fundraising of this to get this to more people quickly. specifically like not making it a drug, more of a public benefit, so it goes straight to generic. Yeah. >> And I just really applaud you for for >> being so involved in this. I mean, you've moved the needle so much for psychedelic treatments. I just wonder you you said 18 years old when you decided that you would dedicate your life to this. I just wonder like what happened to >> to get you to do this because now this is really you committed your life to this. >> Yeah. Well, now I'm 72. >> Yeah. And I'm so lucky that an idea that I had was when I was 18 still makes sense now and has made sense the entire time, >> right? But what what happened was a confluence of factors and and I would say that I had so I was born in 1953 and I had very um loving parents, a really good support system and but I was raised on stories of the Holocaust and >> I was like okay all these people want to kill me >> you know luckily it didn't happen but um >> but it was just thinking about humanity as a whole it was just terrifying that that there's people that want to wipe out a whole bunch of um people from this one religion or or this um but then as I'm trying to wrestle with that, then what happened was the Cuban missile crisis. >> Yeah. >> And now I'm thinking, "Oh my god, you know, the Russians and the Americans, we could blow up the whole world and these Russian horrible people are, you know, hate us and and they want to kill me." >> Um my parents sent me to uh Russia after my junior year of high school. I studied Russian in high school. really >> my great grandparents came over from Russia and my great great grandparents in 1880 they came from Russia to Chicago. >> So my parents sent me to Russia for this in 1970 at the height of the Cold War with around 60 US high school students to study Russian in Russia. And um I remember we were at this uh resort hotel where we were to learn where our school was. And there was this uh Russian girl that was um like a waitress and stuff >> and um so she and I went for a walk and we could talk a little bit >> but that was this recognition that she didn't hate me. >> She didn't want to kill me. This is our government's doing this. >> Um but it made me worry that this world is um on a knife's edge as far as survival. Then um after I get back then it's now my own country with Vietnam. And so I had um had the good fortune of my parents telling me that they would support me whatever I wanted to do. And that was, you know, really really wonderful. And so I realized that um I don't have to worry about food and shelter. They'll they'll take care of that. Basic survival, they'll take care of that. >> And so I thought, what do I need to uh do? there's all these people that want to kill me or kill, you know, and that's kind of of this psychological how how do you dehumanize others? How how do you make it so that you can project evil onto other people or they're no longer human or so it felt like the challenge was more psychological >> than um you know like studying medicine. My dad was a doctor. My brother was a doctor. But but it was this idea that um but then the thing with Vietnam was um what do I do? I think this is wrong. I don't think we should be doing this. Um and so I studied um non I studied Gandhi and I studied non-violent resistance. And so I decided that I would um be a nonviolent resistor and I would go to jail. I would serve my country by going to jail >> for not registering for the draft. M so you know we get lulled into compl into cooperation in ways we don't even really understand. So the first thing you do as a young boy you have to send in a postcard to register for the draft. >> Yeah. >> Now at that time I had a passport, a driver's license, a social security number. I was paying taxes. I was in high school. I I was on all every possible list I could be on. So I figured if I don't send in this postcard um they're going to arrest me and put me in jail. And that's okay. and that's how I'm going to cost the system money. >> Mhm. >> And my parents were like, "Okay." Um, you know, but you're never going to be able to be a doctor or a lawyer or anything like that cuz you're going to be a felon for this. Um, and I'm like, "Okay, I'll just have to figure out something else to do." Well, first off, I'll just say I overestimated the um thoroughess of the government. They didn't even notice. >> Didn't even notice. Right. >> I didn't send this postcard. How so many people like are going to Vietnam getting killed, getting blown up. you just don't send in the postcard. At least for me, they didn't even notice. >> Later, I found um Jimmy Carter on his first day in office, pardon all the draft resistors. >> But at age 18, um I identified myself as a counterculture drugusing criminal. >> And when I first started doing LSD, I was thinking, "Wow, this is balancing. This is bringing me into balance. This is opening me up to my emotions, to spirituality. and it's helping me feel connected. And I thought that is the antidote to uh dehumanizing others. If I feel we're all connected, >> how how can I you're you're me. How can I trash the environment? How can I do that? So my first thought when my first LSD trip was I can be an underground psychedelic therapist and you don't need a license for that. >> So that's all what led into me at 18 out of desperation for the world, the way in which we're killing each other. Um, one of the things that Carl Jung said that I thought was many things he said was really profound, but what he said was that one of the most important spiritual, therapeutic, and cultural things we can do is to withdraw the projection of our shadow onto others. >> So those parts of us that we can't accept now it's other people it's out there instead of in here it's out there. So I felt that this inner work um now is what's critical and also during the 60s what was happening was um in America we were sending people to the moon. >> Yeah. >> And we're getting this more cosmic sense of things and I felt it's kind of like um the Capernac Galileo period of time where where they realize that the earth is not the center of the universe >> right >> but that's in conflict with the church. So, Galileo again dies under house arrest and he has to recant and all of this. Um and so I felt that this kind of um transformation of us going to the moon of seeing things in a more cosmic way um >> there there's a consciousness shift that humanity needs to make >> that's similar from and I think it's realizing that our ego is not the center of the universe that we are more interconnected in these ways and if we can make that transition as as a species then we will survive and if we can't we will destroy ourselves with the technology. So uh here we are um again in Cambridge Io Wilson who was a entomologist you know >> world expert on ants at Harvard he said something um the real problem with humanity is that we have paleolithic emotions with medieval institutions with godlike technologies. That is so true, right? >> Yeah. So, what does the So, so ever since it's felt like how these psychedelic tools that can help us evolve our emotions and our spirituality >> are what we really need because we have the technologies to have food for everybody to I mean particularly with AI and stuff >> um if but we don't have uh income equality at all. We have income inequality. We have enormous unrest but we could have enough food and shelter for everybody. I mean, just think of the trillions of dollars that are going into weaponry, >> right? >> All of this stuff. So, anyway, when I was 18, that's what all all this thought is psychedelics. What also attracted me to working on psychedelics was this was now 1972 when I first read Stan Grath's book, Realms of the Human Unconscious: Observations from LSD Research. >> What attracted me to it was that it had been just shut down by Nixon. >> Yeah. So, the fact that he wanted to shut it down, it made me think, why is Nixon so scared of this? >> Yeah. >> And maybe there's something good about this and so I will work on that. >> And so, that was 1972. Now, we're uh >> we are. We're still not there yet. We still got >> But you've made tremendous progress. We have. >> Well, I seriously want to thank you for doing this with me. I know um you know, you don't do probably a lot of podcasts. you you're a busy man and this is a huge honor to have you and I really appreciate you being here and I think our audience is going to learn so much from this um not just about the therapeutic uses of psychedelics but also just the history and just about ourselves and our ego and why we need psychedelics and and the thoughts around everything you >> Yeah, I would encourage them if they want to learn more maps.org maps.org And then we are looking for donations of course. And then it's a little bit early, but I'll say that in May of 2027, we're going to have Psychedelic Science 2027, this big conference. And and in 2023, we had 12,400 people. >> 2025, we had 8,000 people. >> Um so this will be in Denver. And so um I want to invite people to come to the the gathering of the Psychedel community from around the world. >> Yeah. I I know so many people that went and they just said it was the most incredible thing and I will definitely be there. 2028 >> 2027 >> 2027 Okay, I will definitely be there. Great. Thank you so much for doing this. >> Terrific. deserves.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: CBrwV9gmfzQ (https://youtu.be/CBrwV9gmfzQ) ===

building common ground with people that want to support healing it just so happens to be with psychedelic psychotherapy that that's really going to be the key to the best government relations is is making this a bipartisan support and so i feel that that's um sort of guiding light for how we go forward speaks to me frankly a lot of my old friends don't necessarily agree about drug policy reform uh but i think you can get them there and it's really important and uh look uh even just the stuff that we've seen out of texas uh you know really i think speaks to what you're describing well let me let me say even more than about texas you reminded me that daniel crenshaw representative crenshaw is a very republican member of congress you know he's a former navy ceo but he has heard from all these navy seals that hundreds of them that are going down in mexico for ibogaine and 5meo or going down to south america for ayahuasca or doing mdma therapy with us and he's now interested in supporting psychedelic research and we've got a project that we're working with tim ryan who's a representative from ohio running for senate in ohio he was phenomenally eloquent on the floor of the house blasting the republicans for not supporting this commission to look at the insurrection on january 6th but we have crenshawn ryan working together on two different bills one would give money to the dod for psychedelic research for ptsd and the other would give it to the va and by psychedelics we're talking about mdma psilocybin ibogaine and 5mao dmt so again it's an example of bipartisan support pulling it together and that's what we need for government relations uh okay so look i i do want to get to a whole bunch there's a whole bunch of people asking questions in the chat here and i do want to get to that but before i do one more thing for me uh so uh of course you know with the fda you've uh you've published you've completed and published the first tranche of data for your phase three uh and for fda you're going back you have to do more uh research uh do you think that's necessarily the case uh considering the impressive data that you've published so far uh and uh you know the very reasonable conclusion that the therapy is effective do you think that that is true for all regulators or do you think maps is in a position now to maybe approach some other you know some other sort of top tier regulators in the world to talk about uh approval even before you are done with your second range of data and before you go to fda okay fantastic question fantastic question so yes so one of the advantages of brexit is that the mhra which is the fda equivalent in england they want to demonstrate that they are now unshackled from europe and that they're able to go forward without all this bureaucracy so there's a very good chance that once we start our studies in england and demonstrate some good results i don't think that they'll just take our results from the us but we are working at king's college and cardiff we're getting close to starting those studies which are open label to train the therapist to do phase three but i think the mhr in england would be a good place for other people as well to think about getting approval before fda they're very vested in trying to demonstrate the advantages of brexit the other thing is canada actually so health canada you know when we first started psychedelic research in canada they were absurdly difficult i mean there hadn't been research for 30 years just to give you one example um it took us forever to get permission to for the pharmacy to hold the mdma this was in vancouver so we we had all the list of requirements that we had to do to meet the standards to hold a few grams of mdma the vaults you know the biometric security the cameras all of that and then we do everything and then they send out their people from ottawa which of course then they uh you know take months to send out and schedule they can send somebody from the police station around the corner but they don't do that they wait months and then this guy comes to check out our facility and he says watch well you've done everything on this list but since then we've added some things to the list and now you have to replace all the windows with bulletproof glass oh my god and i'm like okay this is a pharmacy they have opiates they have stimulants they have other stuff that's less secure than these few grams of mdma and they don't have bulletproof glass so any case in the end we had to do it we did everything we got approval so now though health canada is um moving forward with uh uh tremendous stuff with uh people with life-threatening illnesses they now access psilocybin they can the therapists can grow mushrooms and have their own simon experiences part of their training so health canada is a place that we're looking for that may go first as well australia the tga in australia the therapeutic goods authority they may also go maybe they'll call it provisional approval but they may go forward on the basis of one phase three study and some studies in um in australia which we're now working to start the australian government has just put out 50 million of their own money for mdma and psilocybin research and grants so various people are trying to get that i think that that's very possible lots of countries in like brazil for example they will take once fda is approved then they'll approve it but maybe compassionate use we can get approved there so all this is to say that um it's kind of been the thought for a long time that fda goes first and everybody follows but i no longer think that that's true or it may not be true and so so we will test that proposition in australia england and canada yeah we will do what we need to do for fda and we will explore other countries as well [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: fuSBKsweBlg (https://youtu.be/fuSBKsweBlg) ===

Hello everyone. I'm Alexander Rose. I'm the executive director here at the Long Now Foundation and I'm joining you live from our headquarters in San Francisco. A sad lake very quiet version of the interval cafe and bar. Um and um Tonight we're actually going to be sharing with you yet another experiment in our various forms of creating new ways of doing online talks for all of you uh during this time of pandemic when we all have to record these from our our homes and places of work that we can. Um so in for this week or month we have actually pre-recorded the talk and have edited it and we're going to air it with you and Rick Doblin our speaker tonight is going to see that edit for the first time along with you and then join in at the end for a live question and answer as well as two of our founders Kevin Kelly and Stewart Brand. Um this talk is one that I've been working for a long time to to bring to this audience and fundamentally humans have been using psychedelic substances for thousands of years but it's really only recently that they're finding ways to a much more um kind of accepted version in our society both for medicinal and in in less formal circles obviously for recreational use but pretty much all of that advocacy and research that you have been seeing is really come from very few points in the world and one of those is Rick Doblin who spent the last 40 years or or more of his life most of his life really on this problem and so tonight he's going to share that with us. Welcome Rick. Well, thank you very much. I I really appreciate this opportunity to speak with you all today. Um since uh it's the Long Now Foundation, I I really wanted to start with a very long-term perspective. And so, while we're talking about trying to integrate psychedelics into the mainstream, into Western culture, the last time that actually was the case was 396 AD, 1,624 years ago. And that was when the Goths sacked Eleusis and wiped out the Eleusinian Mysteries, which had been going for almost two millennia starting in 1600 BC around then to 396 AD. And the Eleusinian Mysteries were involving a potion that was drunk called kykeon, and they've figured out that this was moldy rye and barley that they used. Um ergot that can produce a psychedelic experience, and that's where LSD was actually derived. Uh it's synthetic, but it came from ergot. So, I think it's just really important to think about the fact that um we're engaged in a sense in something that's uh 3,200 years, and it's been 1,624 years since the psychedelics have really been accepted in full in the mainstream in Western culture. So, that can suggest that when psychedelics really emerged into the culture in the '60s, it was after a very long hiatus, and it was very difficult emergence, and resulted in a terrible backlash, and now 50 years later, um we're emerging from that. So, I think that's the the big perspective that we need to keep. Now, while I talked about psychedelics being sort of used in culture in our Western culture uh over 3,000 years ago, my story my long now begins 50 years ago. You know, as I was growing up, I was very much uh reading. I was born in '53 and raised on stories of the Holocaust and that just terrified me that people could be so cruel to other people and then for me the next step was the Vietnam and that was my own country that was doing things and I was searching for solutions in a crazy world that that's murder all over the place. So, when I was 17 years old, I went to college, New College in Florida and Sarasota, Florida. It was an experimental college and it still is. It's the honors college of the Florida right now and they had all-night parties with psychedelics till sunrise with dance parties with hundreds of people and I thought, "Wow, this is really great." So, I felt that this was an oasis of sanity in a in a crazy world. And lo and behold, I came across the Whole Earth Catalog and this was absolutely pivotal in my development because I read this Whole Earth Catalog and in it was a little report about a book called Programming and Metaprogramming in the Human Biocomputer by John Lilly. John Lilly who invented the flotation tank and then did LSD in the flotation tank as an effort to try to really understand how the brain is working and and this was very inspiring to me. So, I tried to um do LSD in this um sensory deprivation environments. We didn't have a flotation tank, but we did reduce sensory input, things like that. And that got to be very difficult. This was now again after 1970, the Controlled Substances Act, the '60s had crashed and burned, Nixon was elected, the psychedelic research was wiped out and I had a difficult time with my um psychedelic experiences and so I went to the um guidance counselor. This was the the spirit of the time, quest into the unknown. That's why I really felt that um I wanted to do this exploration and I went to the guidance counselor and said, "I I need trouble help with my tripping." And the guidance counselor said, "There's a book I'd like you to read by Stan Grof who's kind of the um world expert on LSD research. He helped start uh transpersonal psychology." The book was Realms of the Human Unconscious uh Observations from LSD research. And in it, Stan said, "Psychedelics are to the study of the mind what the microscope is to biology and the telescope is to astronomy." And I felt very inspired by this book and this is where my life sort of crystallized where I realized that here he was talking about the realms of the human unconscious. He was talking about psychodynamic areas but also about the sort of death rebirth process and then transpersonal states which I felt also had these important political connections. But Stan was wrapping this in a scientific framework. It wasn't a dogmatic religious framework. It was scientific framework. He was using psychedelics in a scientific study of the mind. And it had the for me the very crucial reality check of psychotherapy. Can you use these insights about the mind about the unconscious to actually help people deepen their participation in life? Cuz I thought it's a crazy world and this is a long-term strategy. I felt that um lots of people were doing lots of other uh shorter-term strategies but I felt that this helping people have the sense of connection was the antidote to fundamentalism, to genocide. And that even though the psychedelic research had been suppressed I felt like it was the most important thing that I could be working on and I didn't know if it would succeed or not but it didn't really matter. And so this was the critical point for me where I focused on my life on psychedelics. The first thing I did was I dropped out of college. Um tune in, turn on, drop out. And I felt that I needed to to get grounded and build things. So I built this handball court. Um then I end up building this house with a lot of help actually. I still have this house all these years later. Um this is a big stained glass window inside of it. And this led other people to come to ask me to build houses for them. So, I basically had a decade of getting grounded trying to be balanced so that I could go back to put psychedelics as the forefront. I 10 years later I went back to the same college and I took a month-long workshop in 1982 at Esalen with Stan and Christina Grof and that's where I learned about MDMA. So, the history of MDMA begins in 1912 when it was first synthesized and patented patented by Merck. But, uh they didn't do anything at all till 1927. And Merck did some preclinical studies in animals and found nothing of interest and they decided to just shelf the compound. This is around the time their patent is going to expire. The next we know of MDMA is the Army Chemical Warfare Service MK Ultra looking for mind control drugs. And then Sasha Shulgin, who was an incredible chemist, he started looking for new drugs for psychotherapy and for personal growth and spirituality. And he resynthesized MDMA, experimented with it on himself, and felt that it had incredible potential for therapy. And so, he gave it to Leo Zeff, who was the leader of the underground psychedelic psychotherapy community from the middle '70s to the early '80s, roughly half a million doses of MDMA were used in therapeutic growth settings, mostly by people that Leo had trained. And it was found to be useful in a in a wide variety of conditions, but it leaked out of that community, became sold as ecstasy, and this was at the time of Nancy Reagan and just say no and the rise of the drug war again. And so, it was clear that it was doomed. So, this was an incredible opportunity to gather support to prepare for the defense of MDMA once the Drug Enforcement Administration finally decided to move against it. Um it was in Dallas at the Starck Club where ecstasy really became popular MDMA became popular as ecstasy in dance club setting. Um, George Bush, all sorts of people participated here and this is what attracted the attention of the DEA. So, in the summer of '84 DEA moved to put MDMA in schedule one. They only knew about it as a party drug. They didn't know about it as a therapy drug and so in 1987 when I graduated college, um, I couldn't get into a clinical psych PhD program and so I I decided I don't know what I'm going to do now with my life. I smoked some pot and I thought I'll think about it while I'm high. And I realized I had a pattern which is I want too much too soon. I want to do the pol- I want to do the science but the politics is in the way so I need to pivot and study the politics. So, in '86 I started MAPS as a non-profit. MAPS is the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies. MDMA is the most gentle of all the psychedelics. That's why I felt it would be the first one to make it through the system. For the first 6 years the FDA rejected five different protocols from Harvard Medical School, UC San Francisco, elsewhere and it was just we're just starting to emerge from this period of multiple decades of total repression of psychedelic research. So, in 1992 Charlie Grob and I obtained approval from the FDA for the first phase one dose response safety study for MDMA in humans. So, that was major major breakthrough. And I started working with PTSD with Dr. Michael Mithoefer and also we started first off in Spain to try to do research here. Um, we were having trouble getting permission in the US for a actual patient study. Uh, this study in Spain was the first MDMA PTSD research ever and the tragedy was that it got a lot of media but that alerted the Madrid anti-drug authority and they shut the study down for political reasons. So, then we went back uh to our efforts in the US and we got FDA approval, but we couldn't get institutional review boards to permit us to do a study in the US. And a bunch of these had rejected the protocol. So, I said, "Let me just try one more time." And I noticed that one of these private companies uh that reviews IRBs was called Copernicus and I felt if anybody is sympathetic to uh political religious pressure on science, it would be the Copernicus group and lo and behold they ended up approving the study. We ended up doing a series of phase two pilot studies in the United States, in Israel, in Canada, and in Switzerland. We did a study in uh military veterans, firefighters, and police officers that we published in The Lancet. But, these studies were all done from basically 16 years, from 2000 to 2016. So, we gathered all of this phase two data and at this point, now that we're starting to show benefits, uh neuroscientists started getting interested and this was something that I could have uh very impressed from Stanford, Boris Heifetz and Rob Malenka. The world's populations need more compassion and empathy for one another. The study of MDMA provides one small but potentially important step towards reaching that goal. So, this is a call to action for the world neuroscientists to study MDMA, not just for therapeutic purposes, but for compassion and empathy. So, it gets back to kind of the political reasons that got me into psychedelics in the first place. And what had also been known is that if you have PTSD, um it changes your brain. You have hyperactive amygdala where you process fear, you have reduced activity in the prefrontal cortex, so you're not thinking as logically, and hippocampus where we store memories into long-term storage activity is reduced. So, this is kind of the brain changes that you get from PTSD, MDMA changes your brain also, but in the opposite way. So, it reduces activity in the amygdala. So, things that were fearful before are not so fearful. People talk about self-love, self-acceptance, looking able better able to look at difficult things. MDMA increases activity in the prefrontal cortex, which increases your logical thinking, triggers that might remind somebody of a trauma, noise that instantaneously they go into a fear-based reaction, now they can have a moment to think about it, separate it out, think more logically. And MDMA increases activity between the amygdala and the hippocampus to facilitate the storage of these traumatic memories into long-term, so that they're not always about to happen in people's perceptions. So, PTSD changes your brain, MDMA changes it in the opposite way. Researchers also found and published a paper in 2019 in Nature to show that MDMA stimulates oxytocin, the hormone of love, nursing mothers, connection, and that that opens up this critical learning period, but also it promotes new neural connections. So, you were actually rewiring your brain in prosocial ways. And that can explain why just a few experiences, sometimes just one, can have long-lasting therapeutic benefits. So, after 30 years of MAPS, from 1986 to 2016, after we had all of our phase two data, we went to the FDA for an end of phase two meeting, where you present your data and say, "Can we go to phase three?" Which is the final stage of research you need to prove safety and efficacy. And we presented this data. We said that in the control group, which is therapy without active MDMA, we had chronic severe treatment-resistant people, and 23% of them at the two month after the last experimental session no longer had PTSD. So, this is really tremendous from just from psychotherapy basically by itself and this is comparable with other psychotherapy. So this showed that our control group and our therapy component was actually a good control because we were trying hard and people were getting somewhat better from that treatment. But when you add MDMA to the therapy you get up to 56% more than twice as much. And so this was really remarkable finding but we also did a long-term follow-up one year later and what we showed is that people keep getting better. The two-thirds no longer have PTSD and of the one-third that still do have PTSD most of them had clinically significant reduction of PTSD symptoms. And if we could have given them one or two more MDMA sessions maybe they would also no longer have PTSD. But what this showed is that the experience that people go through is durable and that people learn to process trauma. They keep getting better on their own. So this is fundamentally different than normal treatments for PTSD from big pharma where you get a drug and it's supposed to correct a biochemical deficit and you take the drug every day for months or years or decades. We're just trying to do get to the root of the problem. We're not talking about addressing symptoms. We're addressing root causes and we're trying to do it in a deep intensive psychotherapeutic process to make people free of drugs. We're not trying to make them keep using MDMA. So just to give you a sense of the therapy. This is a roughly two-minute video of one of the veterans that was in our study. He uh two tours in Iraq and his problem was rage. That uh when he came back he would um He was first off he couldn't work. He was traumatized. He had a very difficult time. But but he also would blow up at his at his wife and throw things. Never hit her or hurt her directly but uh rage was what he was dealing with. And so um here is two minutes of his therapy session. I never realized how much I I thought I was being a peaceful person but I didn't realize how much I was punishing that that that aspect of me. Mhm. I think I was just I think maybe in Iraq I saw what it was capable of. And I think I was too afraid to Mhm. You know, and a part of me just feels like so bad that I I did that to him. Mhm. I mean, I know it's me, but I just Mhm. It's driving me wild right here. Um Yeah. But I just Mhm. That was really amazing. And I I don't know. I just got this amazing sense of just I guess wisdom. I don't really know. Mhm. Sounds a lot like wisdom to me. And it was it was really amazing. You know, I try and think of that really rageful aspect of me. Like, I can't even I know it's there, but it just doesn't mean I really feel like so much more at peace with like everything. Great. Like, even if I try and think about Iraq and everything, like I somehow feel like really peaceful about the fact that that's my journey and that Yeah, thanks for sharing that. Part of me think I mean I mean, I know this is um part of the you know, part of the drug, but when I try and think, you know, am I going to be able to hold on to this this understanding and this um somewhat of wisdom and this knowledge that I have now. Mhm. I I mean just ask myself that question. I feel like it's so profound that I don't think I could really forget it. So that was um about over 12 years ago. He did not forget it. And he no longer has PTSD and he hasn't taken MDMA since the study. There's a certain courage that it takes for people to confront their traumas. And if they're not willing to do that, the MDMA helps them to do that, but it can't do the work for them. So we feel like we're more like um midwives than anything else and that people have to do the work themselves. So we have found there there's a great video a documentary called Trip of Compassion. And it's about three of our Israeli PTSD patients and their therapy. Now they were all successes, but but some of the times you can see that it's nothing like the video that I showed. They're shaking, they're they're sweating, they're they're terrified, they're they're hiding under their pillows that and their their blankets that that it's it's very very difficult for some people to to to work through to process this. And a lot of times it's somatized so that if you can't um sort of consciously make it things come to people in their pains in their body or or tensions like that. Um and so we've had several people um who had MDMA drop out of our study because they didn't want to work with the powerful emotions that were coming up. And so I think for those people that it doesn't work for, they I would recommend something more gradual like um more um psychotherapy over a prolonged period of time and then maybe they would then be ready. So I think that um it's about the willingness of people to really engage with the pain. And the MDMA helps them, but it doesn't do all the work. People have to be willing, and if they're not, then they won't get better. So, the lessons that we learned in phase two, though, is that we can enroll people in our studies regardless of the cause of PTSD. The SSRIs, Zoloft and Paxil, that are approved by the FDA for PTSD, tend to work better in um women than in men and completely failed in combat-related PTSD. But we can enroll people with PTSD from any cause. We found that low doses of MDMA do enhance the blinding, but they have an anti-therapeutic effect that they they make people more uncomfortable. They they don't reduce the fear, but they activate them. So, low dose wasn't such a good placebo control. We discovered that it's safe in clinical settings and that we had a medium to large effect size, that we were getting really good results. So, in after this end-of-phase two meeting, we went through this long process of negotiating with FDA with called special protocol assessment to design phase three. So, we came to agreement. We have an agreement letter, and that means FDA's legally bound to approve MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD if our studies get statistically significant evidence of efficacy and no new safety problems arise. Um PTSD is is a terrible situation. 6 to 10% of all people develop PTSD in their lifetime. 18 or so more percent of Iraq War veterans develop PTSD. It's higher in conflict zones. And only 40 to 60% of patients respond adequately to available treatments. There's over a million veterans. This is September 2018. Over a million veterans are disabled with PTSD and are receiving disability payments from the VA for PTSD. It's the third most prevalent service-connected disability after ringing in the ears and hearing loss. The VA spends about 15 to 20 billion per year in these disability payments, mostly for young people. It's going to go on for decades. And they spent in 2017 $7 billion on drugs for PTSD. Mostly these are SSRIs. This is a chart sort of effect sizes how strong is the therapeutic effect. The FDA requires you to have two phase three studies that are statistically significant and so Paxil had three studies. One of them failed. Um but they have small to medium effect sizes whereas in our phase two data we had a large effect size. So on the basis of this though, FDA said MDMA assisted psychotherapy is a breakthrough treatment. It's the most important designation for the most promising drugs. And it gets you more meetings with FDA, shorter timelines. In a sense, we're almost partnering with FDA now to see if this research will actually work. Our treatment is 3 and 1/2 months and there are three MDMA sessions, 8 hours long with a male-female co-therapy team. And people spend the night in the treatment center most of the time. And then there's 12 90-minute non-drug psychotherapy sessions with three before the first MDMA session or or this would be the placebo session, the therapy without MDMA. And then three of these sessions for integration after each MDMA session. So you can see from this that it's really therapy that is enhanced by the MDMA. And we have a two-person team. We we prefer male-female team. Doesn't always have to be that way, but we're really trying to optimize patient outcomes. We've got phase three site locations as I said before, 15 of them, two in Israel, two in Canada, and 11 throughout the United States. We've also negotiated with the European Medicines Agency for a series of meetings after we got the special protocol assessment with the FDA and breakthrough therapy from FDA. Then we went to Europe and we obtained approval in uh 12th, 2018 from the European Medicines Agency Scientific Advice Working Party to move forward to phase three in Europe as well. So, we're a couple years behind in Europe than we are in the US. We've got sites picked out in about uh seven countries, 10 locations. So, we we think we're on track to succeed in this first of two phase three studies. If this drug is approved, the FDA will have special regulations on how it's to be regulated post approval. And it's called Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategies. So, it's not the drug, it's the therapy. So, the only people that can prescribe this and treat patients are people that have been trained in the therapeutic approach. And it's only administered in clinics under direct supervision. It's never a take-home drug. There's going to be a centralized pharmacy that ships to the prescribers, not to the patients, and there will be certain uh safety criteria. The things that are under the dotted line are things that we may or may not have to do. The FDA might want to impose a lifetime limit of the number of times people can get MDMA for PTSD, and they might want a patient registry. But, the main aspects of this are to say it's fundamentally different than medical marijuana, which is a drug you take at home and do yourself. This is going to be administered only under direct supervision. We have a therapeutic method that's standardized based on a lot of the early work with LSD. Uh the basic belief is that um there's an inner healing intelligence. We support the emergence of what's happening. We don't try to steer people to certain things. We have a training program that trains therapists. And so, we've been running training programs for uh the last 5 and 1/2 years. Uh just going to run through them very quickly just you can get a sense of the the scale of the number of people that we've trained all over the world. Um this was in the Netherlands in Israel, um, Asheville, North Carolina. This We're getting up to the present, Colorado. Uh, we did a training for therapists of color. Um, and we did another one in Asheville. We also evaluate and supervise them as they work with one PTSD patient. Everything's videotaped and our team watches the videotapes and then we have a, you know, a week-long in-person training. So, it it's rather rigorous, but we think it's optional. We don't want to require people to have to do the MDMA. We think that any therapist who's working with patients would be better able to work with MDMA if they knew what it was themselves. You wouldn't go to a meditation teacher that never meditated or a yoga teacher that didn't do yoga, but we don't think we should require it. And we would think the patients should be able to know the difference. So, this is just a fun thing we made up a long time ago. There'll be a diploma that we give to people if they've been through successfully through our training program. And then we'll add these if they've, uh, the rainbows if they've taken the MDMA. Um, to show again further mainstreaming, this is a police psychotherapist, Sarkis Gregorian, who, um, lives not far from me here in Boston, and he's going through our training program to learn how to give MDMA therapy to other police officers with trauma. So, I've always felt that the police are the predator and I'm the prey. Now, I have a lot more sympathy for the police. I understand their job is very, very difficult and that they need a lot of help and therapy. And so, it's just one of the proudest things for me is working with, uh, Sarkis to try to train him to help other police officers. And we think he's only the first of many. Right now, what's going on is that MAPS is a nonprofit pharmaceutical company set up as a nonprofit research and educational organization, and that was started in 1986, uh, by myself. And in December 2014, we created the MAPS Public Benefit Corporation. And that's the vehicle that we're using to do the pharmaceutical drug development, and that's the vehicle that we'll use to market MDMA by prescription, assuming that we do get FDA approval. And so this sort of virtuous circle is people donate to MAPS, get a tax deduction, MAPS invest in the public benefit corp, the public benefit corp is a for-profit. It will conduct the research and then eventually market MDMA and whatever profits are made go back to the nonprofit for the mission of the nonprofit and we'll reinvest them in other research. Um just to give you a sense, we're now about 80 people. The MAPS team has a bunch of functions which are mainly um running the whole operation, fundraising, communications, media, education, events, operations. We do psychedelic harm reduction and we have a small policy and advocacy team as well. Then the clinical research team is led by um a group of women who worked together at Novartis pharmaceutical company, mostly in vaccines, and they happen to like psychedelics a lot more than they liked vaccines. And so they started building out our pharmaceutical arm, and so now it's about 55-60 people in the clinical research team. We've set up the MAPS public benefit corporation, which is for-profit, because what we realized is that selling MDMA for a profit is taxable. We can't do that inside the nonprofit. So we have the for-profit that will make some money from selling MDMA. That That's a story now that we can tell our donors that we're not going to be constantly asking you for money because you're helping us develop an income stream from the sale of MDMA, but the for-profit branch, the MAPS public benefit corporation, is 100% owned by the nonprofit. So now that it we've gotten so far along and it looks like we're going to succeed and it looks like there's an enormous number of people that need this treatment, we've been inundated by investors who are saying, "Well, you know, fork over dollars to you. We just want a cut of the profits." And so, we're telling them no. And what we're saying is that we're trying and this is what we're saying to donors is that we're trying to do two things. The first thing is to pave the way for making MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD into a medicine to be the first in class psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy. But the other thing we're trying to do is build a more sustainable nonprofit that will act as a as a a good example in the field to put the for-profit people in check. Now, I'm going to talk to you about moving into the future. This is a a chart for about uh 50 years of American voters' attitudes towards the legalization of marijuana. And you can see now it's well over 2/3. But there was a major plateau from around uh the middle '70s to the middle '90s. That was the rise of the parents' movement, the anti-drug movement in the late '70s. And then in 1996, they started moving up. And that coincided with California and Arizona in 1996 being the first medical marijuana states. And then as more medical marijuana states came on, more people knew medical marijuana patients and saw that it was uh again a drug that was demonized that wasn't as bad as people had said. And that caused them to question everything and that caused them to start thinking not just about medical marijuana but about legalization. So, I think that same process going to happen with psychedelics that legalization follows medicalization. We've now got um in Denver was the first one to make mushrooms the lowest enforcement priority. Um Oakland has expanded that uh they call it decriminalized nature to plant psychedelics. And then in Oregon on the ballot in November, it's going to be the Oregon psilocybin initiative to provide different kind of structures for people to get psilocybin experiences. But the thing that's innovative there is first off on a state level, but also it's not just for patients. It's for personal growth. So, once MDMA becomes a medicine, we think in 2022, there's going to be all sorts of expansions of this thousands of clinics and um decrim and we think we'll reach licensed legalization in 2035. Uh this is just my my personal guess. So, I think that when I say that 2035 is going to be the uh transition to licensed legalization, I think we're going to need a decade or more of these psychedelic clinics to have tens and thousands, 100,000 or so people successfully treated with psychedelics to have the the ripple effect in culture to change people's attitudes towards legalization. And so, I think we need to move out of this kind of uh psychedelic counterculture. We need to reach out to the people that are suffering wherever they're suffering and try to help spiritualize them, try to help them sort of get uh back on their life and I think that that's one of the more important things we can do. So, there may be ads like this, ask your doctor if we we're probably not going to create ads like this, but there could be. Um they'll be uh this is in uh San Francisco, California Institute for Integral Studies. This is not a real ad, but they do teach people to prepare for careers in psychedelic psychotherapy. The reason that I use them is people have a hard time imagining psychedelics being medicines. Uh you know, so part of the the way to tell the story is to show images of oh, this is the way it could be. And so, these um ads for marketing drugs, which I think are abomination actually. I mean, America's one of the few countries that really permits direct-to-consumer ads. We should never have those, but we figured if we made some of them, it would be a good uh teaching tool. And so, I I think the the idea of the psychedelic clinics, the images of the psychedelic clinics, it's a way to kind of help people grasp something that they don't have any examples for in their life. And so by creating these kind of images, it's uh it's a communications tool. So, psychedelics have been used for thousands of years in the Eleusinian Mysteries, and I think that they have been used because they permit a certain kind of escape from our ego-bound focus. You know, our our ego is helping us to survive. It's it's um you know, we we have Abraham Maslow talked about the uh need hierarchy. And so, there's um various needs that we have, and we keep focused on that, and and we always have a sense of who we are both for protection and for advancement in the world. And then we get stuck in certain patterns of thought, and psychedelics relax those patterns. And they provide this um I tell you a a good example, a metaphor, for example, is the Copernican Revolution. So, everybody thought that the Earth was the center of the universe, and everything revolved around that. And then we found that no, the Earth is just revolving around uh the Sun. And and so, I think it's like that with the ego. We think the world is revolving around us, and the psychedelics help us have this experience, no, we're just a small a bit in a larger system, and um what what Stanislav has talked about, I thought it was a beautiful way he said it, is that psychedelics help the ego become transparent to the transcendent. The ego doesn't go away. The ego doesn't die. We need to be recognizing that we're bound by birth and death. We have to do things to survive. We need that ego, but it gets um enlarged, you could say, and we lose track of the bigger picture. And that's where people get depression and meaninglessness. And so, psychedelics have been something that gives people a sense of our participation in the larger cycles of death and birth. And they have also been used um I would say in a in therapeutic ways to break people out of patterns. But I think that the reason psychedelic is the word that I've chosen and I think a lot of people have centered on is it means mind manifesting. So I went started with my own uh interest um roughly 50 years ago. So projecting uh 50 years from now we'll have a psychedelic utopia. Uh and Aldous Huxley wrote this book Island. It was the last book that he wrote in his life and it was about um this uh vision of an Eastern state governed by reason and love. But the um end of the book is that this island is destroyed by the um oil industry. They come in and they um mine the island. And the lesson from that is that there are no private utopias. We are in a globalization world. Nobody can escape the COVID virus. Nobody can escape um global warming, nuclear war. We're There's no private utopias anymore. We need to make a psychedelic utopia and we need to make the island the entire world. This um and so I think we'll get there by 2070. And that is my um presentation and that's the the long now. Back to 2000 uh or 1600 BC and now to 2070. Thank Thank you all very much. Thank you so much, Rick. Um that was really fantastic. Um and I hope you enjoyed watching uh this first edit of your of your talk. Yeah. You made it so much better than my talk. No, you put it you gave it you gave us all the great materials. So we we tried to do with it what we could. Uh so I'm I'm glad glad to hear that you liked it. Um Yeah. Yeah. Uh we've got a lot of questions coming in from the audience, um which I'm going to start with here as well as invite Stewart Brand and Kevin Kelly potentially in for a couple questions. But one of the first ones from James Welcher listening on our watching on our YouTube feed is that you you define MDMA as a psychedelic and and it may not really occur to people that it's a psychedelic and that may not be so broadly defined as such and that maybe we talk a little bit more about the larger psychedelic space and why you have focused on MDMA. Okay. Yeah, so you know, one thing when you kind of run a nonprofit, you want to have maximum um capacity to do any thing that you think is useful. So we define psychedelic in the broadest possible way. So psychedelic could even mean hyperventilation which Stanislav has talked about. It doesn't require a drug. Marijuana can be a psychedelic, which is a drug though. Meditation can be psychedelic to some extent. So let me just say that the classic psychedelics like LSD, like mescaline like ayahuasca, like psilocybin from mushrooms, they do act fundamentally differently than MDMA. In the sense that they are more about dissolving the ego and having this emergence of this um different sort of consciousness, the kind of um foreground background shift that I talked about where the ego shifts from the foreground to the background. There's a certain letting go in a way. Often people get scared. Sometimes they confuse this ego dissolution with physical death and sometimes people this timelessness that happens under psychedelics, people start thinking they'll be trapped in these spaces forever or the flip side is it's a beautiful thing they're in this timeless beautiful space. So MDMA to use more celestial metaphors. Again, what I feel like is that um MDMA is is more about um seeing um like this transparent to the transcendent that that you can see um this bigger picture, but the the classic psychedelics are about um really moving you into that bigger picture. And so I I think that we've found that the for example with PTSD, the very first work that was ever done with psychedelic for PTSD was done by LSD by Dr. Bastiaans who was a Dutch psychiatrist and he did work shortly after World War II in what he called um concentration camp syndrome. And so in that particular use, the psych the LSD really did help bring to the surface buried memories, but it didn't really reduce the fear the way that MDMA does. And so it can be helpful, but it's also more challenging in certain ways. Um the other part of it is a uh an important distinction is that in an 8-hour session, which we have our therapy sessions are 8 hours with MDMA, more or less half the time people's eyes are closed, they have um headphones on, they're listening to music, they're having an interior experience, and then the other half of the time without any kind of script or order when they feel it, they come out and they start talking with the therapist. However, with the classic psychedelics, it's more like 90% of the time they're having an internal experience and only 10% of the time they're really engaged in dialogue with the therapist. So with the classic psychedelics, a lot of the therapy, what we think of as therapy, takes place as preparation and integration. And during the MDMA therapy session, a lot more of the therapy takes place during the session itself. And um I know that you mentioned this in other conversations and in parts of the talk that we might have edited, but uh that you do this with two people and I know that one of the people one of the therapists was off screen in the the video that we saw. Um, can you say a little bit more about why two people and what those two what the backgrounds of those two people? I think we've had several questions Yeah. uh here from people around this is like so what type of therapists uh could um can be involved in this? Okay. So, the the the first principle to say is that our our a whole approach has been optimized patient outcomes. It's a controversial drug and you know, we're trying to bring something new that's never been done before and so that was it. What do we do to get the best possible outcomes? And so that led to the two therapist model instead of the one therapist model. So, what we also know is that a lot of the times that people have trauma have people recover. They're resilient. Like a lot of the people are traumatized right now by COVID will be recovering. Those people that tend to develop PTSD and it's not true for everybody, but those people that get PTSD tended to have a series of traumas and often have difficult attachments in childhood. So, the the the two-person model is often in a sense a not only but often male-female model. It's like recreating a supportive uh parental environment that often times people didn't have as they were growing up. It's also the case that you get two different perspectives. Some people, for example, a woman who's been sexually abused and has PTSD would be less comfortable if it's just a male therapist. If there's a female in the room, it helps. Sometimes even soldiers even sometimes prefer sometimes to have speak to a woman. Some of the time they'll speak to the man. Um, and so we recognize though well, also it's an 8-hour session. Somebody has to go to the bathroom. Somebody has to get something to eat. We want always somebody in the room if somebody had abandonment issues and then they come out of their experience and there's nobody there. That would be, you know, mildly problematic until somebody comes back in. So, the two-person model is not twice as good as the one-person model. It's It's better, we think, but it's not twice as good. So, the big issue then is going to be economics. How do we do it? And so, that's going to get to the credential issues. So, what happened during our special protocol assessment process, which was during 2018, where we negotiated with FDA the the design of phase three, is we got them to accept, and they they accepted it, that the lead person, the lead facilitator, is a master's level therapist. Has to be licensed as a therapist, but the second person doesn't have to have a license. Could be a student working to get a license. Um After that, we negotiated it. Then, along comes two different companies, Compass for for-profit for psilocybin, Usona for non-profit for psilocybin. And then, FDA imposed new requirements on them, which is that the lead person had to be an MD or a PhD, which we feel makes no sense. So, where we want to end up is that the lead person is a licensed therapist, and the second person doesn't need to be a license at all. It could be a massage therapist. It could be a music therapist. It could be somebody who just has a lot of their own personal experience. Or it could be a student. Or it could be another licensed therapist. I mean, eventually, we also want to explore group therapy for economic reasons as well. But I think this is going to be a part of our critical negotiations with FDA about what are the actual credentials that are required. And so, the FDA has never regulated psychotherapy. They only regulate drugs. So, this is the first time that they've got a drug psychotherapy combination. And they don't really know what they're doing. And so, they're trying to be careful, and trying to do what they think is more rigorous. So, oh, MD PhD, you know, that's more advanced degrees. They must be better than a master's level therapist. But, MDs don't get trained to do therapy hardly at all. And even if you're a psychiatrist, a lot of them are psychopharmacologist more than their therapists. PhDs are often even in clinical psych are researchers as well as therapists. So, it doesn't So, we've had to actually start what's called a formal dispute resolution process with FDA. It's going to probably cost us well over $100,000 in legal fees and and work to argue this out. And we've got um 22 letters from various experts in the field to why MD, PhD doesn't make sense, why the lead person should be a um just a licensed therapist. So, I think it's really important. I would like to keep the two-person model, but it's going to depend on these negotiations with FDA. Let's assume we lose it, then I think that the one-person um will need to be a licensed therapist. Got you. Um thank you. And I'm going to invite Kevin Kelly, one of our founders here at Long Now, in for a question shortly. Um he's been sorting the questions from our audience and a lot have been coming in. So, thank you for that. Um and I just wanted to ask one other question. Um you've mentioned memory several times in formation of long-term memories. Um and I don't think we normally associate uh good memory uh creation with uh drugs like um MDMA, but you said it counteracts something that's happening in PTSD. So, if I just wanted to quickly, if you could just talk about how how how how these people are getting long-term memories uh from a the therapy sessions. And then we'll have Kevin join us. Yeah. Well, one one of the amazing things that we find for people is that MDMA enhances their memory for the trauma. And so, certain aspects of the traumatic memory are so painful, people have submerged them so much that they don't remember a lot of what happened during the trauma. And And so by reducing the fear and the pain of those memories, people are able to remember more of the trauma. So in a way they're bringing to the surface these memories and they're permitting what's called fear extinction and memory reconsolidation. And so what fear extinction is is you get over this patterned fear-based reaction because the MDMA the drug helps you to do that and then you can process the emotions. And memory reconsolidation, what that means is that we we used to think that memory was like taking a book off the shelf. You you have the memory, you you read the book, you put it back. Actually, you take the book from a multiple different places. It's sort of assembled from different parts of your brain. You remember it and then you reconsolidate and you have to reprint the book. And this kind of explains how people's memories are changed over time. But what we're doing is we are swapping out so we're enhancing the memory for the the episode. Episodic memory is enhanced. But through this fear extinction process and through temporarily people being able to put the trauma in the past and not like it's always about to happen, doesn't always come to them in their nightmares, they're able to replace the emotion that's attached to the episodic memory. So the emotion is one of more peacefulness, acceptance, and it's in the past. And so that's how MDMA really can change how people respond to their memories, enhancing and then also swapping out different emotions that are attached to that memory. Thank you. I'm going to invite in Kevin. We're also getting some mic noise from your caller there if you if you can isolate the mic from your caller, that'll be awesome. All right. Welcome, Kevin. Hi. So we have a couple questions about the general um long-term destiny or direction of psychedelics. And Leon Linn asks, what are the trade-offs in extending psychedelic use more broadly? And I would sort of maybe add um in the long term, do you see a role for psychedelics in society without the need for a therapeutic or medical setting? And then in your license league uh legalization, what is the license? I mean, what does that mean? yeah. Okay, so first off, let me say that I think that um when we think about the Bill of Rights and we think about the freedom of uh speech, the freedom of religion, the freedom of assembly, um the freedom of the press. A a lot of these things are about the freedom of thought and the freedom of ideas. So, I think it's a fundamental violation of human rights to block people from using drugs. So, I think that the drug war is never about stopping drug abuse. It's always about another political overlay, usually suppression of minorities. So, all that means that I think that these drugs should be available to people outside of religion, outside of medicine for a whole range of purposes and that we should approach it as recognizing that some of these people will get into trouble and we need harm reduction, we need pure drugs, we need honest drug education. And so, I think that's going to be the the long-term strategy. So, in a way, by being a nonprofit pharma, we are actually supporting ways for people to get the drug without having to get it from us. We would like them to be able to have these experiences. You could even say for preventative medicine. A lot of things from the FDA, like for example, all the people that are um healthcare workers that are getting uh traumatized from COVID. A lot of them don't have formal PTSD. You need chronic PTSD for 6 months to be in our study, but preventative, it's not a disease yet, but they should have access to this kind of therapy. So, the license legalization, what that means is and this was actually proposed by Timothy Leary a long time ago. And he compared it to getting a driver's license. So, the importance of it is that you can have it taken away. It's not that hard to get. You have to learn a certain number of things to do it. We're going to have thousands of psychedelic clinics, and people will go to a psychedelic clinic and say, "Oh, I'm interested in LSD." Or "I'm interested in MDMA." You go to a psychedelic clinic, you have the experience under supervision, and you know what you're getting into. Then you get a license and you can go out and buy it on your own. And then if you misbehave, you get punished for your misbehavior, and then you have your license taken away for a certain period of time, or you have to go back for an education class. So, the the best example there is alcohol is really not regulated the way I think it should be. Alcohol should also be licensed reg- legalization, cuz you have a bunch of people that are drunk drivers, and lo and behold, they lose their driver's license for driving under the influence, but they don't lose their alcohol ability, and they go out, they get drunk, and they go kill people, and they don't have a license. So, we should make it harder for people who misbehave with drugs to get more drugs. And that's the idea of the license legalization. Okay. Well, thanks. Yeah. Thank you very much, Kevin. Um and Stewart Brand, uh our founder and founder of this series, also has a couple questions, I believe. Welcome, Stewart. Hey, Rick. Hi, Stewart. I'm very sure about MDMA being used in therapeutic mode, um by Dr. Rick Richard Rockefeller, an old friend. And uh I gathered he not only was being an evangelist for it, he started putting money into it. Yeah. Yeah. Uh was he one of your funders? And And how did the He seemed also get involved in the political permission that seemed to be required. How does all that playing out? Well, Ric- Richard was actually, um well, just to say, he was the chairman of the board of advisors of Doctors Without Borders. And he became aware of um uh, of thousands, millions of refugees in Kosovo and Serbia. And he thought these are all traumatized people. What can we do? We don't have enough therapists and psychiatrists. He took an interest in MDMA and we got in touch. And for 5 years before he died in a plane crash, he was my main thought partner. Wow. And he came to me and he said, "What is your biggest problem?" And I said, "It's the Veterans Administration and the Department of Defense. They should be doing this research. They have the most expenditures, they have the most They're causing the most trauma. But they should be the most, um, interested." And his cousin was Senator Jay Rockefeller, who was on the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee. So, they helped us a lot. Richard, um, really made the So, right now, actually, we are waiting to hear from FDA um, any day now about a protocol that we've submitted inside the Bronx VA to do a research with MDMA. We're going to have to pay for it, but I've been trying for 30 years, since 1990, to get permission to do research inside the VA, to educate the VA. And so, to the extent that we will likely get permission, that's due to Richard and his work. And so, it's it's his legacy. And Richard donated a million dollars to us. Um, the rest of his family have also donated another million dollars, um, after Richard died. great. Uh, after Richard died, we Was that his son, Clay, or who? Well, it's his, uh, sisters, uh, his brother, um, and then after Richard, uh, died, um, Clay and Rebecca his two children, they got together with some of their cousins and they gathered together half a million dollars to donate. So, Richard was a tremendous and I think also one of the most important things, that Dr. Bronner's is one of our big funders. They give us, um, a million a year for 5 years. They've just extended it for 5 more years. And when Richard came out to give a speech at the Commonwealth Club with Larry Brilliant about, um, MDMA, which was a just a tremendous talk, um, David Bronner basically said, um, "My family, you know, thinks I'm a little bit out there, but, you know, they generally like what I'm doing. But, if you and Richard would come down and speak to my mother and speak to my brother, maybe we could increase the amount of donations that we make." And this is just a sweet story about Richard. So, he was, um, president of the Rockefeller Brothers, um, foundation, and he was turning it over to a new the next generation, and they were having a big ceremony to honor him, and he, um, postponed it in order to come down to be with me to speak to David Bronner and his family. So, Richard was just absolutely instrumental in doing this. Um, we had meetings in the Pentagon that he arranged. He knew, uh, the Secretary of the Navy. Um, he really did, um, all that. And And I think it was a challenge that was big enough for him. I think that's why when he said, "What's your hardest problem?" He knew that he had a lot of capability to do a lot of things, so he wanted to pick the hardest one. And it as it turned out, it was very hard. And we're still I just love hearing that. That's just great to hear. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah, I was so, well, we were all so sad when Richard died, but he he had, um, basically gotten us to the point where the National Center for PTSD, which is run out of the VA, agreed finally to let us fund a study with one of their researchers blending MDMA with what's called cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy. But, we had to do it the researchers in their uh, private capacity, not part of the VA, that we had to pay for it, and the subjects had to come from outside the VA, but that happened shortly before Richard died. So, he knew that he had made this switch from, uh, having no contact with the the VA, and then finally letting them give us a little step forward. Wow. That's a great story. Richard was one of the first funders here at Long Now, too, and we had him on stage with Larry Brilliant and now one of our co-chairs of our board, Katherine Fulton, um for the future of philanthropy, which was just really great. So, um I think this is uh Yeah, and and I guess now that Richard is uh long gone, I think it's uh safe to say that he also was learning how to do therapy. And he was sitting for people. And he he was really taking this whole field to heart and he was well, he's a doctor. He's a compassionate man and he was learning to be a therapist with psychedelics. Very cool. Thank you. Thank you very much, Stuart. Um I'm going to ask a few more questions from Wow, we have a lot of questions here coming in from from the audience, as you might imagine. Uh it's a rich subject. Um we have uh let's see. Um I think uh Stephen Hubbard on the YouTube feed is asking more about the potential business models. I think you covered this a little bit. I mean, you're kind of involved in one of these early business models um with uh MDMA or other psychedelics as therapy. Yeah. So, um all right. So, the MAPS Public Benefit Corp is about maximizing public benefit. So, the first thing we've assumed is that the the training program could be a business model as well, training therapists. But, we've decided that we should run the training program at our cost because the real public benefit is healing people from PTSD. And the more therapists there are out there, um the more healing there will be done. So, we're not looking at the training program as a business model, but there will be, you know, thousands of people that we'll be training and that we could have made that into a business model. The next part is the actual sale of the MDMA. And so, um MDMA is off patent, you know, as I said, invented by Merck in 1912. And I saw a lot of struggles over intellectual property for a drug called ibogaine. And it had a use patent for the treatment of opiate addiction. So, I just thought that that was so destructive to the whole movement for ibogaine that I contacted their patent attorney and I asked him to develop an anti-patent strategy so nobody could patent any of the uses of MDMA. Oh, nice. So, so there's no business model that way. Uh unless somebody comes up with some new use that we've, you know, never heard of or that's never been written about. Okay, then there's a certain kind of patents you could have over process patents, over the production of the MDMA, the encapsulation, there's certain intellectual property that's never been done before. We're going to make all that public. So, our main business model is selling MDMA. And the way that that works is that in 1984, Ronald Reagan signed a law to provide incentives for developing drugs that are off patent. And those incentives are called data exclusivity. And so, what that means is that if you're the first to make a drug into a medicine that's off patent, that automatically the FDA gives you 5 years where no one can use your data. You have exclusive use of your data. No one can use it to market a generic. And FDA is now also realizing that a lot of drugs that are approved in adults are marketed to kids without any information. So, they're requiring us now if we succeed in adults to do studies in adolescents with PTSD. And you get an extra 6 months data exclusivity for that. And it blocks the generic manufacturer from applying until that 5 and 1/2 years is over. It takes FDA at least 6 months. So, it's going to be 6 years. In Europe, it's 10 years data exclusivity. So, that's one model, selling MDMA. Then the other main business model is going to be the clinics. Where are these drugs actually going to be delivered? And as I said, they're only going to be delivered by trained therapists under direct supervision. So, you could imagine um networks of clinics. We're we're actually looking at more and more of a model where we want these clinics to be locally owned, not like a franchise. Well, franchise can be locally owned, but we're not trying to MAPS have uh you know, a thousand clinics. And the other thing to say about the clinics is that we're talking about psychedelic psychotherapy, not just MDMA. So, the therapists all want to be cross-trained. They want to know ketamine, they want to know MDMA, they want to know psilocybin, they're eventually going to want to know, you know, DMT, ayahuasca, ibogaine, whatever comes down through the FDA. So, they're they're not going to be like a MAPS clinic. We we will have um certain Everybody that we train will be on a list and they'll be able to um access the drug and treat patients, but they can innovate and they do whatever they want. Um and that's fine. That's you know, the practice of medicine. However, for those people that want to continue to use our treatment manual, we will say they're MAPS-certified. And so, you will know if you go to a clinic, these are people that are um innovating. It could even be better than our model, but you know, if you go to a MAPS-certified clinic, but it could also be a Compass-certified clinic or a Usona-certified clinic or so that people will be cross-trained. So, I think the the business models that we're still just starting to understand and explore are these network of clinics. Got you. And um I think we had a few questions here. Um So, I think that follow up on that. I mean, one for instance, a a drug that's already being used in some cases, not necessarily therapeutic, but certainly um maybe with therapy therapy in mind is ketamine. Um uh can you say how that fits into this space? Yeah. Yeah. So, um Yeah, I mean I think that the patenting and the pharma side of this I think is interesting. Yeah. Yeah. So, ketamine was the main battlefield anesthetic in Vietnam. So, it's an old drug. And it's really good because it doesn't interfere with your respiration. So, that you can be um you could self-administer it. And you inject it it doesn't have to go IV you just inject it in a muscle, too. So, the main molecule ketamine is generic and it's just very inexpensive. So, what a pharmaceutical company did uh anesthesiologist started to notice that as people were coming out of operations, those that had been depressed before some of them were no longer so depressed. And that led to So, it was a serendipitous finding. A bunch of myself, loads of people that I know um in the psychedelic community have explored ketamine as a psychedelic. But, a lot of us completely missed the idea that it was an antidepressant because we weren't depressed. So, we didn't have the before and after. But, the National Institute of Mental Health started looking at this and so a pharmaceutical company picked it up. But, what they realized is why are they going to do research with a generic drug that how are they going to make their money back? So, they took one of the isomers. Um so, a drug is called racemic. It's got sort of left hand and right hand. And these molecules are the same, but because they're mirror images they fit in different places in the brain. And so, the the different isomers have different effects. So, uh Janssen and Johnson and Johnson worked on esketamine, which is one of the isomers, and they made that into a medicine for depression. And this is and they've got a patent on that because no one thought to make an isomer into a medicine for depression. And what they the data exclusivity side or is this its own patent because of the isomer? Yeah, it's it's its own path. Yeah, yeah. And um so, but this is a I think a a bad example of for-profit pharma because maximizing profit, not patient outcomes. Because when you they're treating S-ketamine as if it's a strictly pharmacological treatment and that you don't need any support and they sometimes have uh we we had a fellow named Pine who was an early um Bitcoin investor. And he donated 5 and a quarter million dollars worth of Bitcoins to us. He gave away around um $56 million worth of Bitcoins. This is late 2017, early 2018. But he did He was depressed and he had borderline personality disorder and he went for ketamine therapy. And he had this vision that the way that for him to get out of his problems was to help other people. Which is a very simple, brilliant insight. And he he wanted to tell the therapist about this and they said we don't care what happened. It's all about this physiological thing. Forget about the story. You know, and when he learned about that what we did was combining therapy with the drug, he said that's the model he wanted. But when you do combine therapy with S-ketamine, you get better results. It's the whole integration process. That that that you need afterwards. But you'll end up needing fewer ketamine sessions and that's not going to be so good for the pharmaceutical company. So they market this in a suboptimal way for patient outcomes, but in a way for them to try to make the most money. But what they've also done to kind of um well, what what's happening now is a lot of the people who are prescribing ketamine or S-ketamine have realized why should they pay 500 bucks or whatever to this pharmaceutical company when they can buy generic ketamine for a dollar or two dollars. And the insurance companies you know, sometimes you could work with them to cover some of the therapy. So, what we see happening more and more is that therapists are working with the generic cheap ketamine rather than the S-ketamine and they're adding therapy therapy to it. But still there's there's an awful lot of people anesthesiologist a lot of times now are using ketamine in electroconvulsive therapy ECT suites. So, a lot of anesthesiologist are not therapists are just finding a new income source to give ketamine cuz anesthesiologist use ketamine for operations and they just use these ECT suites and they just line them up and give them ketamine and the the benefits tend to fade after time. Uh sometimes even after a week or a few days. But some people do get enough sessions they they get over their depression permanently. But I think it's an example of really profit maximization rather than optimizing for patient benefits. But ketamine is a great drug for depression and for other and for psychotherapy. And Chris Chatham from one of our feeds asked about this too. I think you've mentioned it now with the with this which is this what about these fast follower kind of small changes to the molecule in order to create these patented situations. Do you think there's opportunities for that in MDMA or some psilocybin or any other ones? Well, not really. I don't think so. I mean Sasha Shulgin who you know, he tinkered with hundreds of drugs of the molecule of MDMA variations and he said there's a book a movie documentary about him called Dirty Pictures. And in in the documentary what he says is of all the MDMA like drugs he thinks MDMA was the most effective. But you could imagine people could tinker with it. But one of the reasons why we're not interested in that is first off we couldn't afford it because if you have a new molecule you have to do enormous number of safety studies. With MDMA because tens of millions of people have taken it, because governments all over the world have tried to demonize it and focused on the risks, there's over 5,000 papers in Medline. And we know an awful lot about it at around $450 million. So, I think what we really need is new social contexts for legal access in therapy, in religion and other ways. But, you know, I think that there will be for-profit people will come along and if they can tinker with the molecules and make them better, all you know, all more power to them. We're we're not against it, but we're just not trying to do it ourselves. And I think that it's unlikely that they're going to develop something better than psilocybin that's around for thousands of years or you know, who knows. One of the things that people could be doing is trying to shorten the span of it. So, let's say you can get um like 5-MeO-DMT, you know, that's like a 10-minute thing or DMT if you smoke, it's a 10-minute thing. So, we find that the 8-hour session is actually really good. It's not a problem that it's that long. It permits people to do an awful lot of work in still a relatively short amount of time. But, you could imagine drugs that are manufactured and designed to be um half hour and then you can do it at I don't know that you get better outcomes, but but you know, I never knew when I um knew all about psychedelics from the '70s, when I learned about MDMA, I initially dismissed it and then when I tried it, I was like, oh my god, this is really great. This is a new development. So, you know, let's hope that they find new stuff that's great. Cool. Um Shell Cappen from our feed um is asking about the kind of the politi- politicization of some of the federal agencies that you're working with and how they've hollowed out recently or um is the What is the current Where does the current climate fit into some of the work that you're doing? Does it cause fast-tracking or slow-tracking or what? Um we we have one um Let me say this. That the we we do not currently ex- feel that we're experiencing any political obstruction whatsoever. So, for example, on May 1, the Disabled American Veterans put out their bi-monthly magazine to 1.3 members of Disabled American Veterans and the cover article was about MDMA PTSD. 1.3 million, I assume. 1.3 Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 1.3 Yeah. So, we are we have bipartisan support for what we're doing. Um you know, Rebekah Mercer, who is one of the funders of Trump and Bannon and Cambridge Analytica is one of our funders, and her only limitation was this has to go to veterans. So, we feel that we have bipartisan support. We have veterans with the with the conservative forces more are supportive of first responders. We've treated firefighters. We've treated police officers, multiple police officers actually. So, the the way that these other agencies have been hollowed out has been um I would say the tragic systematic destruction of the State Department, the Department of Justice, um attempts to overly politicize them, but the FDA is still more science over politics. And when it comes to the upper levels, if there are politics, I think the politics are on our side. So, because of COVID-19, the FDA is contacting all of the people who are in the midst of clinical trials and offering them the opportunity to end the study early. So, the more subjects you have in the study, the more likely you are to get statistical significance. So, it's a bit of a risk to end the study sooner with fewer numbers of subjects, but what we proposed back to the FDA is that we would end the study with 90 subjects who would have their baseline and at least one of their primary their measures after at least one experimental session. So, our model is three experimental sessions one month apart and these 12 90-minute non-drug sessions. So, we can have we'll have some missing data cuz some people had started and then COVID they were quarantined they didn't want to go for more treatment. But, we think that the FDA will agree to this and so we should have the data by the end of June and then we'll have the data locked and statistical analysis before the end of August. And then we'll know if this subject this first of two phase three studies succeeded. And so we're in a good situation negotiating with the FDA. We are in this formal dispute about the credentials. So, we do have some disagreements with them. I think The credentials of the uh of the therapist Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yes. Got you. Well, um first of all, I just want to thank you so much. I was so excited to have had you tonight and um I'm really glad that we got to share this with our community. Um we did send out a link to uh our members. We're trying yet another experiment in our after event discussions. Um and so please do check your email for that. Uh and I know at least some of our staff and others are going to join. Uh I know Rick you may have another obligation, but we'll see if we can get you for a little bit. Um and I think um I just want to thank you for the compassion um and the science that you have brought to this uh field that has really lacked that uh in any formal sense. And and you and MAPS have done a fantastic job. So, thank you so much. Yeah, and well, it started with uh the Whole Earth Catalog and reading reading about John Lilly. So, I'm I mean this is I've been waiting for this for a long time. This is so nice to kind of participate with you in this way. Well, I'm so glad it worked out. Thank you so much. Please hang out with us and we'll see you in the studio shortly. Okay. Mhm.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: wEE84ar0FOc (https://youtu.be/wEE84ar0FOc) ===

Rick Doblin, Ph.D. MAPS Executive Director
Paving the Way From Banned Drug to Legal Medicine Psychedelics have been used by tens of millions, hundreds of millions of people so we know the risks of psychedelics. We have hundreds of millions of dollars already spent by the governments on the risks and we don't have to do that research again. It's in the public domain. For roughly $10 million focused very narrowly on an ever expanding series of studies looking at safety of, and efficacy of, psychedelics in specific patient populations, it's a reasonable goal. $10 million is not out of reach, because first of it's like $10 million over 10 years. It's not like you need to write a check all at once. So that the goal for a non-profit organisation through donations rather than investments to raise enough money to do the research, it's, it's possible. Interview courtesy of "From Neurons to Nirvana: The Great Medicines" by Oliver Hockenhull. Film to be released later in 2012. The Multidisciplinary Association For Psychedelic Studies
maps.org Subtitles by the Amara.org community

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Xnf7yGz4gMM (https://youtu.be/Xnf7yGz4gMM) ===

Speaker 1: It's great to have back on the
program today Rick Doblin, who's the founder and executive director of MAPS, the Multidisciplinary
Association for Psychedelic Studies, which researches legal developing legal contexts
for the careful and beneficial uses of psychedelics and marijuana. Rick, it's great to have you back on today. Speaker 4: Yes, it's my pleasure. I look forward to our discussion, so
Speaker 1: I want to eventually get to what some of the advancements and developments
have been since you and I last spoke a couple of years ago. But first, you mentioned that you were recently
in Texas with a bunch of Republicans, including Dan Crenshaw, who is not known typically as
the progressive beacon of hope to the left. But there seem to be some sort of camaraderie
on the issue of using psychedelics for for veterans and in other contexts. Speaker 4: Yeah, well, Representative Crenshaw
is a former Navy SEAL, right, and he's heard now from quite a number of Navy SEALs who
have PTSD, traumatic brain injury, and the treatments that they've been getting from
the VA haven't been helping them. And so there's a group called Vets by Amber
and Marcus Kapone that brings particularly Navy SEALs down to Mexico for ibogaine, which
is a psychedelic drug from Western Africa, and also five MDMA, which is a drug from the
Sonoran toad. It's the most powerful of all the psychedelics. And these Navy SEALs have been finding a lot
of relief and other veterans as well. And so they've been sharing the news with
Dan Crenshaw. And also he's been hearing with some of the
veterans and others in our studies with MDMA for PTSD. And so now he has become a major advocate
and he's working of all bipartisan way with. Tim Ryan, who is the congressman from Ohio,
friend of the show. Speaker 1: Very good guy. Speaker 4: Yeah, he's fantastic. So that the two of them, though, are working
together. We're getting ready to launch a bill to give
twenty five million to the Department of Defense for psychedelic research for PTSD. And then another bill to give twenty five
million to the VA. And so what we're finding is that the healing
of veterans and others with trauma from trauma is bipartisan. And one of the things that was so interesting
at the discussion with Dan Crenshaw is here. I am surrounded by Texas Republicans and I
talked about how maps as a nonprofit, we've raised over one hundred and fifteen million
dollars in donations to do this research. Over our thirty five years and I started out
by saying that we've got this bipartisan support and I talked about Rebecca Mercer, who was
the family big supporters of Trump and Bannon owned Cambridge Analytica. We know about scraping all the data from Facebook. I said we have support from Rebecca Mercer,
from Elizabeth Koch, whose father is Charles Koch, and we have support from the Rockefeller
family, the Buffett family, the Pritzker was. And I said and goes all the way to George
Soros, who also supports us. And there was kind of this sort of initial
kind of joke or groan that Dan Cranshaw made about George Soros. But in the end, it was like it was like we're
all in it together. That was the dominant message. There was one thing that was really surprising
to me, too, which was afterwards there was a woman who's a therapist, used to be a therapist
at the Houston VA, and she does what's called MDR, which is an approach towards helping
people with PTSD. And we talked about her husband was a veteran
and she's helped him with PTSD. She's very interested in our research. And then she said she's actually running for
Congress. I said, that's really good. And then she said, yeah, I'm running against
a Republican. I said, all right. So we talked. It was like we exchanged cards. It was very interesting. And then I get home to write her a little
email and I discover that she's running as a Republican against a Republican who's not
sufficiently right wing. She's right. Currently existing
Speaker 1: Republican. But she likes what you're doing. Speaker 4: She likes what we're doing because
she likes healing veterans. So somehow or other able to take psychedelics
and healing of trauma and move it out of this partizan struggle. And it seems like it's going pretty well in
that way. Speaker 1: Yeah, it's it's an incredible thing. And I mean, I would be curious to hear, since
we last talked, there were so many things you were researching. There were so many things that you were studying. What are the sort of tangible advancements
that have been made in this field of using psychedelics and as well as sometimes cannabis
for for a lot of different situations, wellbeing, et cetera? What advancements have we made in the last
couple of years? Speaker 4: Well, in May, we published We Meaning
Maps that we published the results from our first Phase three study of MDMA assisted psychotherapy
for PTSD. You have to do two phase three studies to
get a drug approved by FDA and they have to prove safety and efficacy. And the first study was published in Nature
Medicine, which is one of the most highest impact scientific journals in the world. And we had outstanding results better than
we even had hoped. And so what we showed it was highly significant
results, statistically significant, large effect size, excellent safety record. The most amazing part is we work with the
hardest cases, meaning severe PTSD, chronic PTSD. Unlike many PTSD studies, we enroll people
who have previously attempted suicide. And what we showed is that two months after
the last experimental session, two thirds of these people no longer had PTSD. It's just astounding. The control group was thirty two percent. That's the group that got therapy without
MDMA. So 30 to almost one third no longer had PTSD
from our therapy. But when you add MDMA to the therapy, it's
sixty seven percent no longer have PTSD. And of the one third that still has PTSD,
most of them had what's called clinically significant reductions of PTSD symptoms. So we are the only group that's in phase three
with psychedelics. There's now about one hundred plus psychedelic
companies, for profit companies, a few nonprofits, and they're either in earlier stages of the
research or they're trying to develop new molecules that they can patent new psychedelics. But we're the only ones in phase three. So that's the main development. There's also groups that have been working
with psilocybin and they're doing well in phase two. And it's psilocybin for depression, psilocybin
for nicotine addiction, psilocybin for alcoholism, psilocybin for obsessive compulsive disorder. We've also completed studies with psilocybin
excuse me, with MDMA for social anxiety, for people anxious about life threatening illnesses. There was an incredible study done by others
that we helped with David not and then says in England, MDMA for alcohol use disorder. What it turns out is that trauma is what drives
a lot of drug addiction. If you help people deal with the traumas of
life, then they don't need to run away and drugs. And so we were able to show good results in
that. There's also starting to be interesting, promising
findings with traumatic brain injury that certain psychedelics can be helpful. With that, there's just a whole range of studies
that are now being started with psychedelics that are really showing enormous progress. And one of the main things that we know is
that psychedelics promote what's called neuroplasticity. And what that means is that our brains are
not fixed. They evolve as we grow. We know that when we remember things, there's
something changed in our brain. But more importantly, psychedelics can promote
new neural connections in different kind of pathways. So for PTSD, there's been neuroscientists
at Johns Hopkins School Dublin who did work with MDMA, giving them to octopuses and giving
MDMA to mice for the octopuses. They're very solitary creatures and they stay
away from other octopuses unless it's mating season, which is the end of their life. But you give them MDMA and now they want to
hang out with other octopuses. And so these kind of preverbal deep in our
evolutionary history, MDMA has this profound impact. But in mice, when you give MDMA to mice, it
promotes oxytocin release, which is the hormone of love. They call it the cuddle hormone, the love
nursing mothers. And it promotes new neural connections, new
growth of of neurons in new pathways. Do you agree in what happens
Speaker 1: in these studies when the studies with people is there like a placebo group,
where do people know whether they're getting the MDMA or not? Because that seems like it would be a relevant
question in terms of measuring the impact. Right. Speaker 4: Yeah, that's a great question,
my dissertation at the Kennedy School of Government, where I got my master's and PhD, was on the
regulation of the medical use of psychedelics. And one of the main things I looked at was
how do you do a double blind study with a drug like a psychedelic? That's pretty obvious. If you've taken it like you're taking different
pills and you don't notice automatically what they do. These are very powerful drugs that change
your consciousness and you usually can tell if that's happened. Sure. So a lot of my dissertation was about how
to solve this problem. And I thought I had the solution. The solution, I thought was going to be therapy
with low dose MDMA versus therapy with full dose MDMA. And the challenge was to find the dose of
MDMA that was high enough that enough people would notice it and would not be certain. Was it the low dose or the high dose, but
that it wasn't so high that you started getting all the therapeutic potentials of MDMA? And this is what we explored in phase two. So maps I started in nineteen eighty six. We started our first phase one safety study,
nineteen ninety two and in nineteen ninety nine in 2000 we started the phase two studies
and that took us till twenty sixteen. But what we discovered and this is I guess
you could say, the beauty and humility of scientific research is that you discover stuff
that you didn't realize was actually going on or you discover that you were wrong. So what I discovered through these studies
and we tested inactive placebo with therapy. Twenty five milligrams, 30 milligrams, 40
milligrams, 50 milligrams. Seventy five milligrams, one hundred one twenty
five and one fifty. And what we showed is that the therapeutic
dose was lower than we thought. Seventy five milligrams was very effective,
but that the lower doses. They did cause a certain amount of inaccurate
guesses, but what they did is they had an anti therapeutic effect, meaning that everybody
still got better, who got these lower therapy plus lower doses. But when we looked at the data, the people
that had therapy without MDMA did better than the people that had therapy with low dose
MDMA. And the best way to describe it, it's like
if you're in an airplane and you're about to take off, sometimes there's turbulence
at the beginning and then you get above the clouds and then it's smooth sailing. So the low doses of MDMA were like this turbulence. They people were focused on their trauma. They were activated a little bit. But the fear reduction properties of MDMA
weren't fully activated, made people uncomfortable. So when we went to the FDA to design phase
three, I open it up by saying that there's a funny quote by a former president of Harvard. And what he said was, never forget. There's always a Harvard man on the wrong
side of every issue. And so I said, in this case, it's me, my dissertation,
which fortunately I managed to get my theory was wrong and that there is no solution to
the double-blind problem. And so he said to the FDA, we can give you
the blinding, but you're going to make it easier for us to find a difference between
the two groups. And the real question is, if you can do this
work with therapy without adding a drug, why add the drug? So rather than adding a drug that gives a
little bit of blinding, it's more important that we test the therapy by itself where it's
the most effective. And so the FDA brought in what we like to
joke as the old wise man of the FDA. His name is Bob Temple and he's been there
since nineteen seventy two. And he was the Office of Science Policy and
he came and he said there is he agreed there is no solution to the double-blind problem. And he said that there are other ways to try
to reduce experimenter bias. The double-blind is really to make it so that,
you know, you don't get biased results, that you don't find what you want to find. Right. And so what they first have said is what's
called random assignment. That means everybody is similarly motivated
and then they get randomized either to the control group or the experimental group. The other thing they said is that the independent
raters who evaluate the outcomes that you can't have, the therapists say, oh, did this
person get better or not? Or even the person themselves to to do that,
you need independent raters. And this is done through an hour long interview
with the patient about all of their symptoms. And so we have these independent raters and
a very robust system. We have over 20 of them trained by the Boston
Veteran's Administration where they developed the measure. They do it by random assignment, meaning it's
all telemedicine. So they don't know the patient where they
are in the treatment process. They don't know if they've got MDMA or the
placebo. So based on that, the FDA said that they would
agree with us that we would do therapy without MDMA versus therapy with him. Do you may even still, there's about 10 percent
of the people that are confused about what they got, which is pretty astonishing. But sometimes people that resist the emotional
effects of MDMA because they're so scared of what's going on, they have kind of a muted
effect. So there is a little bit of confusion. But we also negotiated with the European Medicines
Agency. We're trying to negotiate all over the world
to globalize MDMA therapy. And so the European Medicines Agency went
through the same analysis and they also agreed with the FDA that it's therapy without MDMA
versus therapy with MDMA and therapy with inactive placebo. And we're also doing research in Israel and
Canada. We've done some in Brazil. We're just moving forward into Australia. So I think the frustrating part in a way,
is that there is no good solution to the double-blind problem. But the FDA realizes that that even though
the methodology doesn't work, people are still suffering. You still have to do the research and you
still have to design the studies as best you can. Right. So the breakthrough that we had was our first
phase three study being tremendously successful. And so we are now doing the second phase three
study. We do have a site here in Boston. And many of your listeners may have heard
of a book called The Body Keeps the Score. It's by a fellow, Bessel van der Coke, who's
a psychiatrist here in Boston. Amazingly, by the way, he published the book
six years ago about trauma. And two weeks ago, it was the number one bestselling
book on the New York Times bestseller list of print and e-book combinations. So there's an enormous cultural interest now
in trauma. And Bessel is the principal investigator of
our Boston site, and he thinks that MDMA is the most effective thing he's seen for PTSD
in his entire career. Yeah, so it's very much excited. Speaker 1: It's incredible the advancements
that are being made. And yeah, the body keeps the score a great. A great book for anybody to read, regardless
of one situation, an important book, Rick, always so glad to hear about the things that
are going on. Speaker 4: Yes, please. Just just that we think that the second phase
three study we will have completed in October of twenty, twenty two and we think by the
end of twenty, twenty three, we expect to have FDA approval and then we're training. We want to train twenty five thousand therapists
and set up thousands of psychedelic clinics throughout the United States and thousands
more throughout the world. Speaker 1: Ambitious and fantastic. Rick Doblin from from Maps. Always so great speaking to you, Rick. Speaker 4: Thank you for having me. David.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: qwEmZW7H05g (https://youtu.be/qwEmZW7H05g) ===

[Music] I think in terms of um recommendations, I really don't want to say people should do this or they shouldn't do this. you know whether people should try psychedelics or not try psychedelics is really a decision that they need to make themselves. What I can say is that under certain circumstances psychedelics have been tremendously beneficial to me and to loads of people that I know uh most of them are not designated patients but are just looking for personal growth or for spiritual experiences. Um, the most important thing I could say is for people to think about it as a two-day experience and to think about the experience combined with efforts to integrate it into the daily life that it's not just what happens during the acute effects of when somebody is under the influence of MDMA or LSD or IAS or peyote, although that's very important to structure that as good as possible, but it's about what you bring back and what you really can incorporate and learn from. And so a lot of us, our lives are so hectic. we're working and we're moving and we're traveling and we're doing stuff that the idea of taking time out to do a psychedelic even that is hard for people with LSD really you should be taking 8 10 12 hours but then to think about it as a two-day experience where the next day is for rest is for recuperation is for thinking about what happened um drawing it out in art or doing any number of different kind of techniques thinking about what happens with your dreams you know journaling ing about it, talking to other people about it. The idea of using the second day for purposes of reflection and integration, I think is is really important. Um, one of the other main things to recommend as an approach for those people that do want to do it is that the recreational use, it's kind of looking at using these drugs for just for fun. And I think when somebody is even for recreational users, they should realize that once they catalyze this process of this emerging material from their unconscious to their conscious mind that you should be prepared for the full range of emotions. You might try to structure it just with a friend or just with a lover or just with you know in a religious spiritual context or something like that or in a recreational party context. But whatever it is, you should be open to the full range of experiences. And we find that a lot of people take drugs for recreational purposes. Then when psychological stuff starts coming up of prior abuse, they try to stuff it all back down. So I think that's really detrimental to themselves. It kind of takes things that have been suppressed, but then that you've moved them up to awareness, but if you don't fully process them, then they torment you or bother you or cause anxiety. So I think it's really important to open to whatever is happening when it's happening whatever moods they are whatever. And then I guess the third and final thing maybe is just to say that it's important to do all the preparation that you can do and think about your intentions and think about what you want to do. Think about the environment. Think about who you want to be with. Try to structure it as much as you can. But once you've taken the drug, just let all that go. And then just be spontaneous about what happens, what emerges. And then once you've created the structure, but then you've freed yourself from it. You'll find that a lot of the elements of the structure that you've created will prove to be really helpful. But you want to be spontaneous and able to go in unexpected directions because psychedelics bring unexpected ideas to the surface and emotions. [Music] When people take psychedelics and things come to the surface, it's part of them. It's not really a drug experience that they're having. They're having an experience of themselves that's been mediated by this drug. And that same experience can come out through dreams. It can come out through art. It can come out through daydreaming. It can come out in any number of different ways. So people it could if they take different drugs it has a different kind of flavor or angle but it's sort of your own internal themes and so I think if people can kind of recognize that and that once you've sort of catalyze this emergence then there's so many different ways that integration process can take place but that it all involves reflection on what happened and also as honest of an inventory as you can make about what happened what you'd like to have happen on a more permanent basis from what happened during the psychedelics and then how do you in a little way start building up your capacity so that that might be more of a normal daily new capacity. So for us the way we do the MDMMA assisted psychotherapy it's during the day starts around 10:00 in the morning goes till 6:00 in the evening. It's a male female co-therapist team. We require the people to spend the night at the treatment center so that they don't distract themselves with traffic and with going back home and talking to family and friends. But then the most crucial part is the next day after they've had a relaxed morning, the therapists come back and they have multiple hours of discussions about what happened before. And the therapists have taken notes, they've done videotapes. And when somebody's experiencing psychedelics, so much is happening that you have a tendency to sort of grab on to like that was useful, I'm going to remember that. And that sort of slows down the emergence of new material when you had to grab on to stuff that was valuable from before. So the therapists are taking notes during the session and then during the integration process, you can discuss them and that can really help bring back feelings and help anchor them in your post psychedelic day. Then when people go home, we actually call them on the phone every day for a week for 5 minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes, half an hour, depending on what's going on with them to see how they're processing it. How is the integration process actually going? And so we have a very rigorous container for people's experiences. Um, you know, after the therapists leave, we have a night attendant come in so people are not by themselves. If they need help, they know where to get it. So, I think this integration process is really key because what we're trying to do, which is nonprofit drug development with psychedelics and marijuana, we're trying to show that these experiences have lasting benefits. It's not enough to show that these experiences are enjoyable or they're, you know, seemingly profound. It's about what are the lasting benefits. And to do that, there needs to be a lot of anchoring in the integrative process. Um, we find that people really like art, like to draw, even people that aren't good drawers, that that there's a way in which you kind of non-verbbally can get feelings out in art. Um, you know, people have written long journal entries. Um, I myself have had, you know, experiences that have transferred to dreams and then sort of mutated into new psychedelic experiences, different psychedelics than the one I took before. And so I I do have this feel for how the material comes out in different ways and it's kind of a unified sense of where it's coming from. So I think the integration is about just reflecting on what happened, but it's also about making these small tiny changes in everyday life that would support whatever new direction people wanted to go in. And that's really the the key to the integration process is putting into practice what you had learned or experienced or decided to try or that you hoped for is actually can you put that into practice even in little ways talking to your family and more open ways or whatever it happens to be. I think you know taking the courage finding some small step that you can do and then that builds your capacity your muscles for the integration process. [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: C0HR3FDXuoE (https://youtu.be/C0HR3FDXuoE) ===

[Music] foreign the future is psychedelic into the Psychedelic 20s Rick doblin is the founder of the multi-disciplinary association for psychedelic studies or Maps founded in the late 80s Maps has spent decades working to get FDA approval for MDMA assisted therapy for PTSD and related conditions he says that should happen within the next year this is about humans helping humans reason sat down with doplin at the Psychedelic science 2023 Conference held in Denver this June where a reported 13 thousand people gathered to talk about all aspects of today's psychedelic Renaissance [Music] talk a bit about the beginning of the Psychedelic Kind of Revolution LSD was synthesized in the 40s but then it it kind of made its way into scientific Endeavor as well as some political ones in the 50s and 60s what was the main lesson to take away from the first era of psychedelics well I think one of the first things is that when you identify as a counterculture that you're sort of sending up a signal that the culture is going to be scared of it and so there was that rebelliousness that Tim Leary had I mean he was kicked out of West Point so he was the culture he was well he was kicked out of West Point just for drinking alcohol though yes yes before he even learned about psychedelics and then he sort of voluntarily left Harvard even though it was getting more controversial and so I think the lesson there was that we need to think about us as moving into the heart of the system rather than becoming a counterculture and then the other part I think was that there was this parallel that The Advocates often were exaggerating the benefits of psychedelics one dose you're spiritually mystically educated you're you know and then was minimizing the risks and the government on the other side was exaggerating the risks I was told that if you take LSD six or seven times you're certifiably insane and they were suppressing the benefits so I think one of the big lessons now is that we have to really talk about the risks and the benefits and at the same time I think there was an over estimation an overvaluation of the substance itself that all you had to do is take this drug LSD or psilocybin and there wasn't enough focus on the relationship that the relationship is what makes it either valuable or harmful so I think once we've learned those lessons the other big thing was that psychedelics in the 60s were very much identified with anti-war with anti-vietnam and myself I I thought Vietnam was a tragedy and and we never should have done it but now we've sort of come back through working with veterans who've been traumatized so I think the political symbolism of being anti-war it became anti-soldier instead of anti the policy and so now we need the military to protect our freedoms we see that with Russia going into Ukraine and so we're not anti Soldier even though going into Iraq was a terrible mistake and what's happened in Afghanistan is tragic psychedelics can help heal soldiers who you know are are following orders and doing good things or bad or having tough experiences but the psychedelics which was a sign of being anti-war is now they are now kind of being pro-soldier yes yes and and we're still pro peace in different ways but but there are times when you need to defend yourself so I've come to I think the whole psychedelic movement has come to see that it's a dangerous world we live in and that we do need to protect our freedoms in a lot of different ways and so we need to focus on the policies not demonize the people you um you know the one of the Cornerstone activities of maps if not the is working with the FDA to get approval of MDMA assisted Psychotherapy talk about how important the substance is to that therapy why is that therapy better than regular talk therapy yeah well to sort of knit these things together just walking here I heard a story about one of the Vietnam vet who was in therapy with MDMA and was still able to heal but every day up until the time that he went through MDMA therapy which was very recently he had Suicidal Thoughts so I think what the MDMA does is it helps reduce our fear response to emotional threats to memories that are painful and they can be overwhelming and we can get stuck in these patterns of reaction that make us feel that these experiences and these memories are overwhelming so every time they come up we feel that we have to suppress them and so what MDMA does is it helps people to feel calmer to feel more through we could say oxytocin the self-love self-acceptance that people can have a diminished sense of fear the fear is manageable they can control their reaction to it and then they can be more calm as they looking MDMA also enhances memory for the trauma so a lot of times things that have been buried that have been so painful to remember under the influence of NBA they can come to the surface because as long as they're buried they have an unconscious influence and they create anxiety they create fear they create hyper vigilance but with MDMA it makes the therapy more effective but again what I was saying before is it's not in the substance that people have have taken MDMA and if they're unprepared the difficult emotions come up and then they end up worse off destabilized and we've heard many stories like that so it's the MDMA in the therapeutic context that really makes the healing possible you're also a big supporter and proponent of cognitive Liberty yes um so for you psychedelics are not simply about helping people who have trauma can you talk about that other dimension of kind of self-actualization or or yeah really getting to be the person you want to be yeah yeah although that's interesting that this idea of self-actualization comes from Abraham Maslow in this hierarchy of needs and self-actualization becoming your full realizing your full potential the start of the human potential movement and humanistic psychology but what is not taught in school and what a lot of people don't know is that in the last few years of his life Abraham Maslow changed the hierarchy of needs and above self-actualization he puts self-transcendence and what that means is that you become your full self but then you realize that yourself is connected to everything and everyone even people that are very difficult different than you and then you start working to heal the collective and so I think psychedelics have this possibility of helping people work through their own individual traumas and their own psychodynamics but I think that everybody is traumatized when we think about the mass extinctions that's going on we think about the climate change we think about the rise of totalitarianism the decline of democracy in many places that everybody's got this base level of fear and anxiety and often people get overwhelmed by it and then they look for strong man leaders I think that explains why a lot of people it's not rational anymore it's just an emotional tribal identification and so if we can help the people that may not necessarily have a diagnosis but help the everybody and then also we need to spiritualize people more we're stuck I think with a lot of literalisms fundamentalisms ways in which people see their nationality or their religion or as the the one best thing and they discount others and then they're fearful of other other cultures and and that's where we have a lot of the fear of immigrants even though America is a country of immigrants so I think that we need to go beyond the medicalization and that the legalization and legal access is absolutely essential to achieve the kind of mass mental health and spiritualized Humanity that we're looking to have that we think we need for for us to survive and thrive as a species would you say that that kind of Baseline of anxiety and polarization and whatnot is that why we're having a psychedelic moment now I think there's a lot of that that there's a lot of the perceived need I mean with the pandemic and there's a much more widespread understanding of the Mental Health crisis of the crisis of addiction in America over a hundred thousand people dying from opiate and Fentanyl overdoses so I think that's one of the reasons but I think the other is that we look at what happened in the 60s and a lot of the things that came about from the psychedelics were frightening to the culture you know there was a lot of talk about the death rebirth process in the 60s if people had cancer like uh you know you didn't talk about it you didn't talk about death women were tranquilized to give birth and men were not allowed in the delivery room so birth and death were kind of separate I think there was so much death in World War II that there was this counter-reaction to kind of push it away I think meditation was seen with the Beatles bringing Maharishi mashyogi these weird people in robes and you know from a different culture that seemed strange and then even yoga people were worried if you practice yoga you're going to become a Hindu or a Buddhist or whatever so what we realize over the past 50 years or so the culture has changed its attitude towards death we have hospice centers now the first hospice center in the U.S wasn't until 1974. we have change our approach to birth we have more birthing centers and women aren't as tranquilized as much and men are in the delivery room and meditation and mindfulness are now taught at the YMCA it's not going to take you away and then we also think about the Psychedelic imagery that people have during psychedelic experiences and that's made its way into art into culture into movies and so I think we've integrated a lot of the things that were flash points during the 60s that people were new and scared about and in a sense we've integrated everything except for the psychedelics I think the other part that's been happening is the space is going to the moon and all of the telescopes and all these things that were we're having a much more Cosmic perspective and we are Humanity sits so before it used to be that Humanity you know Earth was the center of the universe and everything was all about us and now we see how we're just a small part of this incredible infinity and so I think people are adjusting and that's difficult and also through the internet and other ways that we're all connected people are bumping up against each other cultures that were separated and that's where people are often retreating into fundamentalism but underneath it there's awareness that those are not really true that we need to work in a more metaphorical way about religion seeing religions more like languages so I think it's about this greater understanding of the Mental Health crisis but it's about all these things that have happened in humanity over the last 50 years that has prepared us for bringing back psychedelics and hopefully this time if we're careful and balanced there won't be the backlash that has happened in the 60s could you give an update on where Maps is and FDA approval for MDMA assistant there yeah so we have taken you know 37 years to get to this point we have two extremely successful phase three studies both in statistical significance and the magnitude of the effect and in the safety profile and we have had a lot of good discussions with the FDA and so we think around September of this year we're going to be submitting What's called the NDA the new drug application to the FDA and we think there's a very good chance that by June of 2024 roughly one year from now we think that FDA May indeed go ahead and approve MDMA assisted therapy as a prescription treatment for PTSD but it won't be like a normal drug that's approved it will be approved only under direct supervision of therapists and what we're hoping is that we'll be only under direct supervision of therapists who have been trained in the method that we've used in phase three and one of the big things for me is to try to help the politicians and The Regulators understand that a big part of training therapists is having them have their own experience with the drugs that they're going to give to their patients and so I think we're at this negotiating point with FDA where they know that the healings that are happening with psychedelics are remarkable they've seen a lot of the data they've also seen that there haven't been very many advances in Psychiatry since the ssris in the last 30 or 40 years and they want to find a way to regulate it I think the other thing that's happened in the background has been the legalization of marijuana and the understanding that medical marijuana has a lot of benefits now we I just was at a meeting with FDA a few days ago in person about our marijuana project and the woman in charge of the division of Psychiatry said that she is very uncomfortable about the term medical marijuana because it's not medical until the FDA says it is but at the same time they've been making it difficult to do research but I think that people have seen this highly demonized drug marijuana cannabis you know a puff of party a tragedy that that has now helped a lot of people and that is sort of I think there's a diminishing of the the Zeal for the drug war there's a general sense and I think that reason magazine and the Libertarians and others have made a really good effort over many decades to help people understand that the drug war is really a war against people and it's tremendously unsuccessful and counterproductive so I think a lot of the suppression of psychedelic research has been the concern that it sends the wrong message that if these studies show benefits then it gets in the way of the drug war ideology so I think the drug war itself has really lost credibility and is seen as counterproductive so all those factors I think make it so that now we do have the Psychedelic Renaissance what um what is the difference one way what you're talking about is kind of the ultimate Boomer story right where it's you know the class of 64 or whatever in the Pacific Palisades you know it starts you know instead of going to college or going to war they they turn on tune out and you know or drop out yeah yeah Etc um and now they are the elders and they're kind of like what we want our LSD to be legal now we want MDMA we want um can you talk a little bit about that Journey uh you know as a generation and then what are the sticking points with younger Generations because we have a generation gap now that's arguably as big as the one that was in the 60s where the coin the term generation gap was coined um you know what what do psychedelics mean to Boomers and what do they mean to Millennials in gen Z yeah well it's hard for me to speak for anything but the Boomers but I will say that I don't feel that generation gap as much I feel it's like the middle generation that grew up under the drug war propaganda that didn't have the internet so that the younger Generations understand how we're all connected and how there's just this Universal you know International Community and we have to learn how to work together and there's also an understanding that these technologies that we have that that there's a lot of support a lot of dangers but also a lot of benefits and so I think the psychedelics have been not just restricted to sort of the boomer generation that's what I was actually worried about for a long time is would this just be something that would rise and fall with the Boomers and when I ended up I taught a class the only time I've ever taught a class was at new College where I went to school in 2001 and that was going to be my question our younger generation is really interested in this and they were very interested because I think they have seen all these cultural mashups and and they're they're hungry for deeper connections so I feel that the the younger people are more open more willing of there's been so much of this they've grown up under not the demonization of marijuana as much but they've seen the marijuana legalization and medical marijuana states so I think that from a boomer perspective I think it's just a feeling of the resistance and the backlash was so great that it was never clear that we would see this change in our own lifetime and so I think that's where it's just this sense of kind of Amazement but also the sense of a crisis I mean the humanity feels even more of a crisis point now than it was in the 60s that we could see then already that we needed to new move to New forms of renewable energy that the you know oil industry was causing you know a lot of problems and so the solutions have been delayed Humanity as a whole is kind of waited till you know hopefully it's not exactly the last minute but I think there's a sense of Crisis I mean as an example just to say my youngest daughter up until a year or so ago she was saying that she never wanted to have kids that she didn't want to bring kids into this world the world was so stressful and it was you know so going to hell and all these you know climate change and extinctions and so I think she's been a little bit more hopeful lately but I think there was just this Mental Health crisis of this younger generation and they've looked at what are these Solutions and I also think that the Ecstasy and MDMA that came in the 80s really helped Bridge the generations that the classic psychedelics are very challenging they're dissolving your ego there's challenges of letting go of being um open of sort of seeing our identity as something different and I think the MDMA is the softener as the way as the bridge and so MDMA has really been helpful to sort of ease the fears of the culture about psychedelics and once people understand that these different states of Consciousness can be more beneficial easier controllable in a certain way then there's an openness to the others it's interesting that you know for psychedelics to kind of go mainstream both opponents of them and proponents of them have to kind of acknowledge they're not as powerful as we once thought yeah it's not like one dose miracle cure or one dose you're enlightened and chromosomal damage or something yeah yeah yeah yeah I mean there's but there's so much still fear of and misinformation that has been promulgated in schools through the Dare program and others what are the major political kind of economic or medical and cultural impediments to the mainstreaming of psychedelics well I think the biggest challenge is going to be the cost because what we say is that it's not a drug that you take on a daily basis and that looks like it doesn't cost that much even though then you need it for 10 or 20 or 30 years and then the costs add up but what we're saying is that this is psychedelic Psychotherapy psychedelics with therapy and a lot of therapy so there's going to be an initial cost that's going to be larger at the beginning but over time it will save money so the challenge is going to be getting insurance coverage because saying most people will not be able to afford psychedelic Psychotherapy in that way that's also why we need to legalize so that people can do this on their own with peer support so I think that's one of the main challenges I think because the drug war has been more widely seen as a failure we don't have that same vested interest from police also we're understanding and we we do have a police officers that are interested in MDM a therapy for trauma so we're trying to make that point that this is for police officers is for prison guards this is for First Responders so we don't have that now we did have an interesting a couple years ago we spoke at the International Association of chiefs of police and they have since not led us back but we had one talk and we just met one police officer who was also a psychotherapist sarako Gagarin who then has gone through our training program and is now wanting to give MDMA therapy to other police officers but but we've been rejected ever since to go back to the International Association Chiefs of police so so there are pockets of resistance I think people have started to understand that the private prison system is also a disaster that they have a vested interest in keeping people in prison from a business perspective they're not so much interested in Rehabilitation I think the challenge is that people that I talk to worry about the most are the fundamentalists that that what we're talking about with psychedelics is it deepens people's spirituality but it also moves them a little bit more from a literal perspective to a metaphorical perspective and that also makes them move away from there's only one right religion so we see a rise of fundamentalism in a lot of different ways but I think they're sort of holding on to a worldview that's being challenged in so many different ways and so we have to demonstrate I think our challenge is to try to demonstrate the fundamentalists that if you let go of the literalism there's a deeper spirituality and you will not have to leave your symbols or your religions that it enriches it rather than diminishes it and I think the we do not seem to have resistance from the pharmaceutical industry so many people are saying what if you can help cure anxiety and depression and you do this deep and you only need a few sessions of psilocybin or MDMA or ketamine and then you don't need these daily medications but the those drugs have gone generic mostly and they're not big profit centers for pharmaceutical industry so we actually don't see resistance from at least I don't see it from the pharmaceutical industry I think the polite petitions the fact that we've been able to get bipartisan support through the work with a lot of the veterans I think one of the biggest challenges has been the next step which is for me trying to move into the Department of Defense to work with active duty soldiers and so there is the concern oh you know they want to have a psychedelic experience and it's all peace and love and they but I think that's not going to happen at all and I think we do see with Russia going into Ukraine that you know we really need a strong military to keep us free there's always these kind of tyrants so I think the the military is sort of the last Bastion of cultural acceptance and while we're working with veterans we want to work with people that are closer to the trauma and then the other is adolescence and what people you know that's been a big thing about the drug war oh let's protect the kids and so what people are often surprised about is that the FDA if we do succeed in getting permission to have MDMA assistant therapy as a prescription medicine for adults that we're being required by the FDA to work with traumatized adolescents and I think that's going to be really important and what we've seen with cannabis when it started to be shown that CBD could help with childhood epilepsy you start helping people's kids that's kind of then they're really open to that and so I think the next steps for us will be to move into the Department of Defense move into working with adolescents and those will be the final stages of cultural mainstreaming and acceptance final Yeah final question you know let's project 40 you know you Maps has been working at this about 40 years 40 years into the future what what is your dream I'm so glad you even picked this 40 years because what we're talking about is a world of Net Zero trauma by 2070. so that is the new animating vision for me and what that means is that over the next couple Generations I think things might get worse we're talking about the possibility of climate change is not mitigated very quickly there's some estimates that there could be a billion climate refugees by 2050. and so I think the stresses are going to be amplifying over time but also I think if we can mainstream globalize psychedelics and again not just in a business model where money can be made but in a humanitarian approach to where there's most of the places where there's massive trauma there's also not hardly any money and so I think the goal is to try to heal enough people so that that we're not adding to the burden of trauma every year and when you also traumatize someone there's multi-generational trauma people's chromosomes don't change that quickly their genes don't change that quickly but the epigenetics what turns certain genes on and off can be changed by what happens to you in your lifetime and then you can also pass that on to your children and so I think if we can Envision a world of Net Zero trauma by 2070 and more of a spiritualized Humanity it'll be more like the island that Aldous Huxley wrote about but the way that the book Island ended is the oil companies come in and crush the island so what we want to make is the island is the world and so I think that this moving into space that we have a chance at least on one hand of a spiritualized Humanity in the next 40 years and I do think it'll take multiple generations to get there and if we fail at that it's uh very worrisome because we're like Lemmings going over a cliff and the other way and we often wait till the last minute to make changes and the damages are piling up but I think over the next 40 years there's a lot of optimism and a lot of hope that we would have a spiritualized humanity and then what would we do you know we're going to have technologies that can support us all in terms of our basic needs so hopefully we'll end up with a culture that focuses on Art and Science and music and creativity and lovemaking and this would be you know the spiritualized humanity that I Envision over the next 40 years so that's great final question what's your favorite psychedelic [Laughter] um breathing I would say that because you know Stan Groff has developed hyperventilation you know so if you just breathe you can have psychedelic experiences and what that indicates that it's in us it's not in in the pill and but I would say that if I were stranded on a deserted island and I could have only one psychedelic which would be it would be LSD and I know a lot of people like plant medicines and stuff but the reason it's not MDMA even though I do have to be made more frequently than the classic psychedelics is that there's a way in which you can't run away from LSD you have to surrender to it and we build up all these ideas and all these defenses and you know you can maneuver around stuff with LSD you just got to surrender to it so I would say healthy dose of LSD would be you know if I had only one psychedelic that would be it but the MDMA LSD combination is tremendous MDMA with 5meo DMT is also tremendous so it's a hard question but that would be my answer well thank you [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: k4rPfOOTo3o (https://youtu.be/k4rPfOOTo3o) ===

i'm victoria decker head of growth for psych and i am thrilled to be joined today by rick doblin founder and executive director of the multidisciplinary association for psychedelic studies or maps rick we'd like to thank you for agreeing to uh to join us today for your contributions to psych including your insight and your commentary in the second edition of the report and uh moreover we'd like to congratulate you on your recent and remarkable 35 year anniversary of the association victoria thank you very much and um just to let everybody know in the next um short period of time nature medicine is going to be publishing the results of our first phase three study which was tremendously great great we'll um we'll be sure to watch out for it so we're we're here today to celebrate map's achievements in the realm of psychedelics over the past three and a half decades and look to the future of both psychedelics generally as an industry and maps as an organization so we would like to start by asking you what was the intention of the organization on conception and how does that initial concept square with the direction that maps has taken well the original intention sort of was formed you know not 35 years ago but 48 years ago when i was 18 years old and confused 1972 and was confused a lot by my lsd and psilocybin experiences and i just was looking at kind of a murderous world of the holocaust and i grew up during the cuban missile crisis and the whole idea that we could have nuclear war and destroy the world with the us and russians and then the vietnam war from my own country and it just seemed like well something that albert often was i mean albert einstein was attributed to saying is that um our technology has exceeded our humanity right you know so it was out of that despair i guess that i kind of thought that the political implications of the unit of mystical experience were what people needed that we needed to realize how much we have in common with everybody and that if we can feel that and know that then it'll be harder to commit genocide or murder or be racist so it was this decision i made when i was 18 after reading stan groff's book realms of the human unconscious observations of lsd research that in this crazy world the contribution contribution that i could make would be to try to become a psychedelic therapist be underground go through my own psychedelic therapy and bring psychedelic research back so that was the impetus ever since i was 18. so then when it comes time to maps i had learned about mdma i thought of it as the incredible tool it was the most gentle and very profound it's most gentle of all the psychedelics but very profound and so i felt that it would be the one that would make it through the society first and so the but the goal was when i started maps was a non-profit pharmaceutical company you know i didn't know that no drug had ever been made into a medicine by a non-profit at that time so uh blissfully ignorant of that that didn't happen until 1999 and it was the abortion pill ru-46 so it was another controversial drug abandoned by pharma and funded by philanthropy by the rockefellers the buffetts and the pritzker funded that so the the goal of maps though has been twofold one the the main goal is mass mental health humanity as a group is crazy we're destroying the planet we're destroying the climate we're murdering each other you know there's a lot of reasons for hope but there's a lot of work that needs to be done so the dual parts are to medicalize through drug development research and then also drug policy reform to move to a post-prohibition world and so those are the two tracks that maps has always been on and so now 35 years later um we're on the verge of in a couple years having um hopefully if our second phase three study goes well having um fda approval as well as approval in israel and canada we're moving into europe last friday we had the first mdma session in europe as part of our efforts to globalize to bring mdma through ema but we're also seeing changes in people's attitudes towards the drug war and the recognition that mass incarceration has been racist it's been a political strategy to take people's rights to vote away it's never been about reducing drug abuse so i think one of the questions for people in the industry to think about is is the medicalization and the business aspects of that something that is compromised if people can buy these drugs on their own in some sort of legalization system or and this is my personal view that the more that we destigmatize these drugs the more we make them available to people the more that we have licensed legalization the more we train people as peer support that we will sort of affect mental health more broadly but we will also make more of a demand by people for going to trained professionals covered by insurance to get these treatments from all the different uh for-profit psychedelic pharma companies but i think that there's a general sense among most of the companies that the drug policy reform puts their business model at risk and i think that it's the opposite i think that the drug policy reform will enhance and supercharge the business models by making even more people want therapy and treatment centers even though we want to train people to try to heal themselves and also use it for celebration and for couples therapy for all all different kind of uses that aren't specifically treatment of disease no that's no that's not just outlined in a bit in more detail um but in celebration of maps um i love your perspective um you know of all maps achievements to date um which will the group be most remembered for well i think mostly it will be um making mdma assisted therapy for ptsd into a medicine i think that's going to have the biggest impact um you know i think that we are also moving forward we opened the door to lsd research after roughly 35 years of suppression um we've done work early work with ibogaine even ayahuasca and the treatment of addiction but i think we'll be most remembered for medicalizing mdma assisted therapy for ptsd plus we've raised over 100 million dollars in donations in the history of maps and about um 75 million of that has gone for mdma for ptsd research it's remarkable i would agree that that you will definitely be remembered for those things um and so just shifting gears a little bit before we do let me just say that our ultimate goal is not to be remembered for stuff it's to be taken for granted so what i mean by that is that um okay so a lot of women in america when they go to vote they just go to vote right they don't think about the people that were beaten up that were arrested you know just a hundred years ago to get women to vote so that the ultimate success in a way is to be taken for granted oh it's always been this way and of course it should be this way so that that's what we hope even more than being remembered is that people just go to their psychedelic clinics and get psychedelic therapy and go get their um you know psychedelics on licensed legalization and then go off to a party and that they won't even think a second about maps so certainly a refreshing perspective it so just shifting gears a bit in recent years we have witnessed uh an evolution in funding and talent into psychedelics um how have both of those changed in recent years since uh since map's inception and what role has maps had in that evolution yeah well and we're also i'll start by saying that in some ways we're a victim of our own success and by that i mean that of the um 35 years it's taken us 35 years to raise 100 million of that in the last two years we've probably raised 45 million which is pretty amazing but the for-profit companies have raised over a billion and so what has fundamentally changed is that for the first um 31 32 years of maps history nobody would even think about a business model because the regulatory obstacles were too great the public attitudes were too fearful um it just didn't seem like it could be done in a a business way nobody would take that risk so the fundamental shift that has happened as we've made research progress with mdma as other groups have made progress with psilocybin research that we've shifted key opinion leader attitudes we've shifted attitudes at the regulatory agencies we've changed public opinion which has permitted now the rise of the the for-profit companies and what's that done when i said the victim of our own success is that now we're finding that a lot of people want to uh invest rather than donate sure so how we tell the story of the non-profit model and why that is worth sustaining at the same time that we're supportive of for-profit companies as long as they are not doing overbroad patents aggressively trying to block other people from doing things um but but i think that's the big change that's happened is this the rise of the for-profits the fact that you know psych even exists and your industry reports that that's new and really exciting we'd agree 100 and so on on the subject of um of iep and patents um there's been a lot of discussion around it lately around ip ownership and patents generally psychedelics now appear on a wide range of patent applications um you know some you you may not even expect and and many prominent figures are are vocal in their opposition from an ethical standpoint um where does maps take position on on that subject today well we're pretty nuanced i would say so that i'm not opposed to patents for new inventions i mean that's a legitimate use of the patent system and i understand also that investors want to see that it's a very expensive to make drugs into medicines it's very expensive to do psychedelic clinics and so people want to patent their inventions what i see is problematic is that patents are being often it seems like um used not just to patent original inventions but taken for granted you could say in the business model as you try for overbroad patents you force your other people your quote competitors to spend a lot of money to try to narrow down your claims and then you end up with something short for shorter smaller than what you originally applied for but i think that's really not appropriate for psychedelics i think that people should be patenting their original inventions but not try to go beyond um and use kind of an aggressive patent strategy so i i'm sympathetic with patents but but i'm also worried for example um you know how many um things that are prior art are being discussed as people trying to patent sure now the uh let me say that the other thing is that um there's another mechanism that i don't think people recognize exists enough that provides incentives for developing drugs in the medicines without patents it's for drugs that are off patent and it's called data exclusivity so it's a very important different tool that doesn't require patents or ip that if you are the first to make them drug into a medicine that's off patent and all the classic psychedelics are off patent um and and we've done a lot about the anti-patent strategy for the uses of it but if for example we make mdma into a medicine for ptsd um we'll get automatically five years of data exclusivity and what that means is that nobody can use our data to market a generic for five years if we do pediatric studies we get an additional six months and it blocks a generic competitor from even applying until that's over and it takes fda at least six months to review the application so the way it's different than a patent is that some other company if they wanted to generate their own data they could do that it doesn't block anybody from doing anything but since it'll take five or six years and well over a hundred million dollars for somebody to make their own data for mdma for ptsd we don't think they'll do that and so we'll have this probably six years in europe it's ten years of data exclusivity so i think that there's been not enough attention paid to this idea of incentives that have been created for drugs that are off patent or for uses that are in the public domain there are process patents that are for how you make the drugs but in general i think they're more of a um an illusion of value um i think investors like to see that but there's so many different inventive chemists that could figure out different ways to make things and that even if you have optimized the cost of uh and reduced it to make it in some way most of the cost of this treatments is going to be to the therapists not to the drug and so maybe you have a marginally different uh cost structure if you make it you know and you've patented some production processes but i don't think it's actually that significant when it comes to the patients and to the insurance companies i see and we've we've been discussing a bit um you know the this idea of raising capital um many companies are working to do this right now attempting to raise capital for research and product development um it's taken maps uh you know 35 years to get through your current position acknowledging you know that there's been a lot of movement in the sector generally over the past handful of years but i'm wondering is what these new companies um is what they're proposing to do possible within their projected timelines and capacities and what questions should smart money be asking well one of the things that i think has really contributed to maps's success and also to our competitive cost structure you could say is that we have built our own drug development company we're 130 people now around two-thirds of them are in the maps public benefit corp and that's the pharmaceutical arm and the other are in the maps nonprofit but most pharmaceutical companies most of these new companies can contract out with what they're called cross contract research organizations so a lot of these for-profit companies you don't need to have your own drug development team you contract that out to companies that do this all the time so i think what smart investors really need to be thinking about is um first off the cost structure it is more expensive when you um contract out like this than when you build it on your own um but that that's a lot of work the other part is really to think about what is the niche what is the actual product that people are talking about and how does it really relate to the other products in the space so for example there are a couple several companies that are now trying to develop new molecules that they can patent and several atai and tachin are two companies that are trying to develop new mdma-like molecules so if they succeed you need to make the question yes they can get a patent on it but how different is it going to be from mpma and you know maybe it's shorter acting or maybe they figure that they can do it milder so the idea would be you take it at home on your own and you process stuff without therapists that seems very dubious to me but i think you can make a great story about what you're going to develop with these new molecules but how is it fundamentally different than what's going to be available from psilocybin so field trip for example has has talked about how they have a shorter acting psilocybin like molecule and they've got a patent on it and they're going to develop it so um it's an interesting thought you know can you have a two hour session instead of a six hour session and how productive will that be will you need three two hour sessions to equal one six hour session or you know so it's not clear to me that shorter acting molecules are going to be a big breakthrough but but maybe so there's a bit of a gamble there the the other part i think people smart investors need to realize is that there's so much fundamentals that are shifting so right now insurance companies don't have a code for an eight-hour session meaning you know we're gonna have to create new agreements with insurance companies to get them to cover an eight-hour mdma session but i think that's gonna come because what they're gonna look at is the outcomes and if the outcomes are really good and if the outcomes are cost effective they will find a way to cover it so i think some of these stories about we're going to get a cost a shorter acting molecule it's it's unclear to me whether that's going to really be a great business model but it could be so i won't say that it couldn't be i think there's a limit to what people can do without with with apps or with you know treating people through telemedicine we we already now because of covet everybody has learned a lot in research how to move as much as possible online but for psychedelic psychotherapy for us for ptsd i think there's always going to be a human component in person for the actual dosing sessions but you know that's going to be a question is it a business model to give people these drugs to take home on their own and do through telemedicine that that's not clear to me i mean people are doing that with sprovato you know with ketamine that that's happening whether it's as effective it's unclear um i think also people need to really look at um and this is a kind of a difficult thing but you know there seems a you could say a lot of hype and froth in the market so there has been an enormous um increase in some of these companies values you know 10x over what they were just six months ago so how much of that is based on actual um earning potentials and stories how much of that is based on on hype and and so you can make a lot of money during a bubble but how do you know when the bubble is going to end what's the underlying value and i think also people should be really thinking about you know cost effectiveness and insurance coverage whether that's going to happen but the the thing that people need to be wary of there is that the pressure is going to be to reduce the cost to reduce the amount of therapy and try to make it uh more cost effective but then what's going to happen are people going to be given sufficient support for the integration are there going to be people that are sort of brought stuff to the surface and then they're not held in as supportive of a way and then they go off and commit suicide or you know decompensate so i think people have to be wary of these stories of how we're going to do one dose miracle cure or people can just take the drug and do it on their own so there's a lot of challenges but i also think that there's an enormous opportunity because the mental health crisis is i'd say the key crisis that we have in the world uh behind even climate change it's it's about people's fears and anxieties that that become irrational and then they don't want certain kind of change um prejudice wars so i think people really have to be um aware that the the need is great and that there can be multiple companies doing the same thing and they can all succeed that's great and i'm glad that you mentioned um maps membership i was hoping to ask you about the maps alumni yeah we know some of them have moved on to other projects and other ventures in psychedelics and wondering from your perspective how that work aligns with maps principles and are there any alumni works you you'd um you know recommend keeping an eye on um yeah there's some fluence which is a group for training therapists they're doing good the challenge for us is that um we don't have stock options we're still in a non-profit we still are paying non-profit salaries even in the benefit corp so a bunch of people have been trying to for-profit companies have been trying to hire away our staff because they've got the experience and specialized experience with psychedelic assisted therapy and regulatory agencies and and they can pay right now more than we can pay so that that's a challenge for for us but i think that um not all of them have gone to for-profit psychedelic companies moderna has hired a couple of our people away in the drug development process and then the actual cmc the chemistry manufacturing controls and project management so i think that the um the maps membership which is what we're hoping to build is thousands of people um so we're trying to build the base not just to have the big donor strategy but but you know get ten thousand and twenty thousand members to build the organization that way but for the maps alumni um i think that there is um mostly now in training of therapists is is where it's happening i think we've had a lot of very mission oriented people and now that we're getting closer and closer to fda approval people are getting more and more excited plus we're learning more and so we're trying to tell people is at some point you may want to make a transition to other for-profit companies but your value is going to only increase over the next couple years as we get to the point of fda approval once we've got fda approval then we've demonstrated success we've all learned more and so i think there will be a lot more interest and people hiring away and people going to other companies but we're hoping to keep the team um relatively intact as we go forward over the next couple years so in um on the topic of transition i'm wondering um from your perspective what needs to happen for a significant significant cultural change in our approach to to health care to occur well it's already happening so the first thing that needs to happen to really bring psychedelics has been this attack on the drug war and this demonstration that the drug war is counterproductive it's racist it's so the drug war is what's been suppressing psychedelic research and it's been the kind of willingness of the fda to to open the door to that that has been so important but people relate to stories so more than to data so what's really going to be changing culture is more and more stories of people who are helped by psychedelic therapy by ketamine by psilocybin by ayahuasca by ibogaine so for example we are now working with two members of congress dan crenshaw who's a republican from texas and tim ryan is a democrat from ohio on a bill to try to give 25 million to the department of defense for um psychedelic research and 25 million to the va for psychedelic research for ptsd that's only possible because these members of congress have heard from so many people dan crenshaw is a former navy seal and there are loads of navy seals have been going down to mexico for ibogaine and 5meo dmt and for ayahuasca and for mdma in our studies so what's going to primarily change culture is stories of healing from a broad cultural base also we need the key opinion leaders so for that we need the science we need the data so when the fda says yes to mdma assisted therapy for ptsd assuming that happens roughly two years from now that's sort of the first key proof of principle that psychedelic assisted therapy can make it through the regulatory system that will change a lot now there's also neuroscience research so the fda doesn't require evidence of mechanism of action they just require evidence of safety and efficacy but the more that we have this neuroscience research funded by others and funded ideally by governments too the more the mechanisms of action will be understood so it looks miraculous and dubious from the outside that people take a few experiences with psychedelics they've had ptsd for sometimes decades in our first phase three study we've had roughly one third of the people had ptsd for 20 years or more and yet two-thirds of them no longer have ptsd at the end of the study so how does that happen it's it's hard to understand so the more that the neuroscience research can show neuroplasticity and new neural connections people can then give credence people meaning regulators key opinion leaders can give credence to yeah these changes not only can they happen but they can be durable i think we're going to really you know see more of that developing and then i think you know in the stock market yeah when people see people making money on this that's going to be a big motivating factor as well and that will bring more capital into the field um ideally we will end up the critical factor is going to be national health care coverage or insurance coverage that's going to really open it up because we can do all we can to get it approved but if it's only to self-pay people it's going to be a smaller market and smaller amounts of money will be made so it's going to be demonstrating this in a cost-effective way and getting insurance coverage sure and a great segue into into my next question um which is in in your estimation what happened what needs to happen in the healthcare supply chain to to bring psychedelic medicines and therapies to patients in a significant way well we're already having discussions with various uh health insurance companies sure about it um and so i think that's going to be key um you know the good thing for us in europe is to say is that the national health care is their pay for treatment but they also pay for disability payments and so for ptsd when you consider severe ptsd as a very disabling depression as well the economic cost effectiveness study you know makes more sense in the europe we have have the the sort of they pay for both in the u.s it's only the va that pays for therapy and disability generally insurance companies don't pay for it the other thing i'd say in the healthcare supply we're going to need networks of clinics and one of the things that you know multiple different companies are going to be doing is this kind of building out these networks of clinics the idea that for us it's not necessary but we found it to be helpful for people to have overnight stays so that you have an eight-hour session um it's very exhausting we have people that do the integrative psychotherapy the next day so if you have to go home and then come back and drive all this so we're it's going to be optional we have several of our phase 3 sites that don't have overnight stays so that it is optional but so developing the clinics that are optimized for therapy would be really important that that needs to really happen um as far as supply chains for the drugs that part's easy um you know we've just now got um 16 kilograms of gmp mdma uh you know people are doing the same for psilocybin so that the distribution is going to be easy the the the thing that is important is going to be the negotiations with the regulatory agencies on what's called the rems which is risk evaluation and mitigation strategies so those are customized policy tools for the risks and benefits of each specific drug so they're going to say that the only people that can work with a patient are therapists that have been through the training program from the sponsor so what we're going to really need for the supply chain you could say is the supply of trained therapists we're predicting or our modeling is that by 2028 we hope to have trained 23 000 psychedelic therapists for mdma for ptsd and then they will set up all these clinics and all of that but what is really important is to recognize that even though there are separate companies that are doing different individual drugs some companies doing psilocybin some doing ibogaine some doing mdma like us that really the field is psychedelic psychotherapy and that's what we're trying to do and we're trying to give these therapists tools to customize and personalize psychedelic medicine to their patients so we're going to need to train therapists in mdma psilocybin ketamine lsd cross-trained therapist and so the the big step is going to be getting schools of psychiatry and schools of psychotherapy embedding in their training programs for degree credit there's starting to be now a few like uh california institute for integral studies but sorry cis has a certificate program but it's not part of their degree program okay so we need to embed in degree programs psychedelic psychotherapy training and then i would say that the early psychedelic therapists of the past the ones right now uh who are operating will all agree that therapists are more effective if they've done the drug themselves so it doesn't mean that if you're a therapist who's done mdma you're better than a therapist that's not done mdma it just means that you're better than you would have been otherwise and so we need to also figure out ways in a protocol in a legal way to give therapists training with their own experiences but in a way that's not so expensive that's not heavily protocolized and lots of data gathering so that's going to be a real thing so embedding training programs in schools of psychiatry and psychotherapy including the opportunity for therapists to be experience the drugs themselves that's going to be a real big limiting factor um you know getting all of the um clinics laid out and optimized that's going to be a big thing and then the the other big thing to share is group therapy so we really need to be ex and we're now in the near final protocol development stages of a protocol for group therapy to take place at the portland va so what that means is that these clinics which may initially be set up for individual therapy you know small rooms and and you know patients and therapists together we're going to need to optimize also for group therapy so that some of these clinics are need are going to need larger spaces for for groups but we haven't proven the group therapy model yet but i think that's going to be a big one going forward great and we have many investors operators and you know people generally interested in advancing the industry of psychedelics and improving access watching right now if you could give any advice how how can people get involved today to help research and industry evolve and progress forward well one of the things is still reducing stigma you know for this so i think we need a vast like it all coming out process um of people that have benefited from psychedelics to further change the culture i i just was before this doing an interview for a german magazine you know because we're bringing mdma ptsd research to germany and the fella was telling me about how attitudes are changing his mother in a seven in her 70s was a holocaust survivor and was in a concentration camp and but now she's finally thinking she might be ready for psychedelic therapy so we need more of that i think also we need um people who um lobby congress um you know what we really would ideally want is more federal money for research for particularly for mechanism of action research and things like that so people can be effective in that way and i do think that this whole field is held back by prohibition so i i think that the more people can get involved in state and local efforts to um either move towards decriminalization to legalization to the oregon psilocybin initiative things like that i think that that can be very effective because it's been the prohibition and the stigma that has sort of blocked the acceptance of this and as where there still are pockets of research i think the other part is going to be um it's hard to think about investing but religious freedom so you know we we have this idea that if you're part of a group like the native american church they're legal for peyote that went to the u.s supreme court the divisional for ayahuasca that went to the supreme court but there should be a way for people to legally make the case that you want to have a spiritual experience but you want to do it independently you don't need a religion as part of it so so all of that is on the theme of um sort of um you know ending prohibition the the other is mental health parity and insurance i mean that's that if we can get that across more and more that will fuel all of these companies because if they're just relying on self-pay people it's going to be limited as we said before so i think this idea of mental health parity in health insurance if people can be working on that aspect that will have a ripple effect throughout the whole industry of psychedelic businesses and so looking far ahead into the future what does the world of psychedelic access and the future of maps look like in another 35 years well i am so glad you asked that because actually um we do uh think about what's happening in 2050 so but uh but i'll start by 2035. so right now 2021 um attitudes have shifted everything is open but i think we're going to need a decade of psychedelic clinics rolling out starting in already it's happening with ketamine clinics then 2023 we hope mdma for ptsd then 2024 2025 verse 26 we hope psilocybin comes online and other things as well there's people working on masculine but i think that we're going to need to have a roughly 10 years of rollout of psychedelic clinics and that will end up being hundreds of thousands and eventually millions of people treated that will change public attitudes and in 2035 is when i think we'll move to what we call licensed legalization where you have a license to do these drugs in any context it's like a driver's license but it's different so for for example alcohol i think is regulated too lightly because you can buy a bunch of alcohol get in your car you know drive drunk get pulled over you lose your driver's license but you still can go anywhere and buy alcohol as long as you're over a certain age in your car and you kill people so there should be a license that can be taken away if you misbehave and i think that will happen in 2035 we'll get licensed legalization for psychedelics we also need to change the attitudes towards what we do about young people so you know these licenses will be for adults but i think that there should be a parental override if you want to give your kids psychedelics you should be able to do it and that that is the way it's done with the native american church with peyote with ayahuasca the cultures that have successfully um integrated psychedelics don't have age limits um i was at a native american peyote ceremony and a navajo man brought his nine-year-old son who stayed up the whole night you know he took smaller amounts of peyote but we need to bring this back to the family so 23 states in america have laws where for alcohol parents can give alcohol to their children you can override the laws against minors so we're going to need that so i think 2035 is when we move to this licensed legalization and then i think by 2050 the goal is to have a more spiritualized humanity and you know we're talking so much about climate change and people are talking about net net net zero carbon what we need is a world of net zero trauma and i think if we can really globalize access to psychedelic healing destigmatize it and globalize this post-prohibition world by 2050 and a little bit less than another 35 years we should have a net zero trauma world and that's and and also we do need a big shift from fundamentalism to mysticism so we've got people killing each other over different kind of religious ideas you know you can't force anybody to have these experiences or to but but hopefully if we we have enough of a cultural context where people have had psychedelic mystical experiences psychedelic unit experiences that we will see kind of a move from fundamentalism which is literalism to sort of symbolic metaphorical mysticism so hopefully that's where we'll be at by 2050. fingers crossed rick we'd like to thank you sincerely for for your time and for all the important work that maps has done over the years and again congratulate you on on your 35th anniversary thank you and i'll just make an appeal for membership so if people want to become monthly members we don't need but i would also make an appeal to all these for-profit companies that are making um you know billion-dollar market caps or you know making a fortune that they should realize that what made this transition happen was the non-profits the beckley foundation hefter usona maps and that changed that then it made it so that now the uh for-profits could come in into the environment and so hopefully there will be some um sense that as long as the nonprofits are sort of leading the way that that will make it easier for everybody so i'd like to encourage newly wealthy for-profit psychedelic investors to make donations as well great thank you for your time rick we really appreciate it thank you victoria you're welcome

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: iwYz_voQmXE (https://youtu.be/iwYz_voQmXE) ===

Thank you. Today we've heard many stories of courage, of struggle or triumph, and of defeat, and most of all, of trauma. I'm here today to share the news that there's new hope for the treatment of trauma. PTSD, post-traumatic stress disorder, is a debilitating condition after exposure to a traumatic event or a series of traumatic events. The symptoms include re-experiencing, coming back in nightmares, intrusive thoughts during the day avoidance, people avoid reminders or triggers of the trauma, there's often emotional numbing fear, depression, and hypersensitivity, hypervigilance and all of this combines into a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder. More people than you might imagine actually suffer from PTSD. Six to 10% of all people will develop PTSD at some point during their lifetime and more so if you're working for human rights, or struggling against oppressive regimes or if you're a veteran. Right now, there's about one million veterans that are receiving disability payments for PTSD from the Veterans Administration at a cost of around $20 billion a year. According to the Open Global Society, a survey was conducted of human rights workers that shows that 18% of human rights workers have PTSD and another 18% suffer from symptoms a little bit short of a diagnosis. That's a staggering number. 38% of human rights workers and even more so sometimes than the people that they're trying to help are struggling with trauma and they don't have available to them the most effective treatments. Only 40 to 60% of people with PTSD respond to the currently available treatments. That's an enormous amount of suffering. The currently available treatments include primarily pharmacotherapy drugs such as Zoloft and Paxil that address the symptoms but not the root cause that require daily administration, often for months, years, or decades, or a lifetime that have significant side effects and that really don't leave people feeling much better. There's also psychotherapies, and these work well for quite a few people, but they're very difficult because they require confronting the trauma and for many people, that's too difficult, and so there's a lot of drop-outs from the currently available psychotherapies. For the last 30 plus years, I've been working to develop a new, innovative treatment for post-traumatic stress disorder, which comes from the psychedelic drug called MDMA. MDMA was invented in 1912 by Merck Pharmaceutical Company, but they didn't know what they had. They never really tested it in humans, and it wasn't until the middle 1970s when it was rediscovered in the United States by a group of therapists and psychiatrists and roughly half a million doses were used in therapeutic settings from the middle 70s to the early 80s. But MDMA escaped out of this therapeutic context and became the recreational drug probably all of us have heard about as ecstasy. And this happened during the time of Ronald Reagan and Nancy Reagan and the escalation of the drug war, so it was clear that MDMA was going to be criminalized. In the summer of 1984, the DEA moved to put MDMA in Schedule I, criminalizing all medical and recreational use and a group of advocates and myself banded together and there's a picture of me in the background, spying on the DEA before I walked in the door to take them totally by surprise and demand a hearing. At first, we thought we were winning. We got the hearing. And then, the DEA administrative law judge said we won that it should remain a therapeutic drug. But the administrator of the DEA rejected the recommendation and placed MDMA in Schedule I criminalizing all therapeutic as well as recreational use. And so, in 1986, I founded a nonprofit pharmaceutical company, the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies to try to bring MDMA forward through science, through medicine, and focused on healing. It took 30 years for us to raise the money to do the studies to enable us to move to the FDA for what's called an end of Phase II meeting and that's where you present your data and you ask for permission to move to Phase III the final stage of research before you can make a drug into a prescription medicine and the FDA said yes. Now, I'd like to share with you one story of healing from a 37-year-old veteran, Jon Lubecky who was 12 years in the Army and the Marines, and when he came back from Iraq he was so wounded with trauma that he attempted suicide five times. The last time, he put a gun to his head he pulled the trigger, and it misfired and he finally decided to seek help. And he went to the Veterans Administration, and everything they offered him did not work for him. And out of desperation, he
volunteered for our study. And our treatment basically consists of three and a half months of treatment with a male/female co-therapy team, but only three administrations of MDMA one month apart with 12 90 minute, non-drug psychotherapy sessions three before the first MDMA session, for preparation and then three after each MDMA session, for integration. After the treatment, John wrote "I cannot emphasize how much MDMA-assisted psychotherapy has changed my life. I went from constant daily suicidal ideation, anxiety, depression, to almost nothing. The best part was this was not lifelong treatment and medication. This was only three experiences of MDMA." PTSD actually changes people's brains. People's amygdala, the part of our brain where we process fear, becomes hyperactive and activity is increased there. Where we think logically, the prefrontal cortex and put experiences in context, activity is reduced and activity is reduced in the hippocampus, where we can put things in long-term memory. MDMA changes people's brains as well, but in the opposite direction. MDMA reduces activity in the amygdala permitting us to remember traumatic experiences with less fear, so that we can process it. MDMA increases activity in the prefrontal cortex where we can store long-term memory, and it increases connectivity between the hippocampus and the amygdala so that memories that are seeming like they're never really in the past can become processed and put into the past. To give you a better sense of how MDMA actually works in therapy I'm gonna show you a two minute video from one of the therapy sessions the first therapy session of an Iraq War veteran who, after he came back, was struggling with rage. Now, this veteran, Nicholas Blackstone, has not forgotten it. This session was almost 10 years ago, and he's still PTSD-free. To give you a sense of the results that we got from our Phase II studies the placebo group, the people that received the therapy with either inactive placebo or very low dose MDMA, showed actually pretty good results. 23% of them no longer had PTSD after our treatment. That's really pretty good compared to other therapies or compared to the pharmacotherapies. However, when we added MDMA to the therapy, the results more than doubled. 56% of the people no longer had PTSD, and this is really remarkable. These are chronic, severe, treatment-resistant PTSD patients. But what's even better is that this process catalyzed a healing process that people can continue on their own. So, at the 12 month follow-up, after the last MDMA session without any more MDMA, over two thirds of the people no longer had PTSD. And of the one third that still had PTSD, many of them had significant reductions in their symptoms and if we could've gone along to a fourth or fifth session they might also have gone below the level of having PTSD. On the basis of these results, the FDA granted us breakthrough therapy. It's the most important designation for the most promising drugs and in a sense now, we are partnered with the FDA on bringing this drug to market as quickly as we can. We've also started negotiations with the European Medicines Agency. On June 12th, this was this meeting, we were given approval by the EMA to also move to Phase III. But in something that both surprised and pleased us, they appealed to use to include refugees and migrants with trauma in our studies, because that's such a problem in Europe. And now, we've also been able to obtain bipartisan support for what we're doing. We've had great coverage in the New York Times, but you may be surprised that we've also had terrific coverage in Fox News. According to a new study, soldiers with PTSD using the illegal drug known as MDMA, or ecstasy cured the condition within weeks. This is key, 'cause I don't think I've ever seen the word "cured" in a highfalutin medical journal. Usually it "significantly improves," but never cures. Now, the study was small, 26 patients, but their message is big. Jessie, did you ever think you'd be doing a pro-ectasy segment on Fox New? No, my mind's spinning right now and I haven't taken any ecstasy. Healing trauma in veterans and others is enabling us to build bridges across political divides. We're even able to overcome resistance from the War on Drugs. In essence, the War on Drugs has never been about drug abuse it's been about the persecution of minorities and it's been about the suppression of the freedom of thought, of cognitive liberty and it's also caused enormous unnecessary suffering by the suppression of research with drugs such as MDMA, marijuana, psilocybin, and many others. Fortunately, MAPS has been able to raise $27 million in donations, not investments but in donations, to start phase III research which we're going to
be starting next month. We anticipate, by 2021, that we will have MDMA available as a medicine and we'll actually be able to start using it with patients on a compassionate basis a year from now and we anticipate the same for EMA, depending on our ability to raise funding for the European research. For those heroes in the audience here, and watching, and around the world who have struggled for human rights, for freedom against oppressive regimes for whom resilience is a constant struggle the message today is that there is hope and there is healing. Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: SSC5G4lQ7C4 (https://youtu.be/SSC5G4lQ7C4) ===

Rick Dublin is the founder and president of the multiddisciplinary association for psychedelic studies, MAPS. He has been a leading voice in advancing psychedelic research and therapy for decades. In our conversation filmed at the psychedelic science 2025 conference in Denver, he shares his vision for integrating psychedelics into mainstream culture and mental health care. We discuss how he sees the state of the movement after 40 years of activism and what the future may hold following the FDA's rejection of MDME assisted therapy approval. June 2024 uh two scientific bodies came to very different conclusions about the same subject. The Dutch state commission said that MDMA therapy is effective and safe >> while FDA made a decision to reject the the same treatment. Why do you think these two bodies came to so different conclusions? >> I'm so glad you've started with that question. Um I think there's several major reasons. First off, the um Dutch committee had real subject matter experts. The people that were on the FDA advisory committee mostly didn't know what they were talking about. Didn't know about psychedelics, didn't even know that much about therapy, knew hardly anything about PTSD. So, first off, the qualifications of the people. Secondly, the Dutch group had about a year to study the data and the FDA advisory committee had a couple weeks. But I think the most important point is that the Dutch group had to justify their findings in writing a report which meant that they had to stick to the evidence. They had to think about the evidence. Whereas all the FDA advisory committee people had to do was say, "Oh, I vote this. I vote that." They were much more influenced by the media, the FDA advisory committee, than they were by the briefing package that was given to them by the FDA. And they acknowledged multiple times that they didn't really know what was going on. The patient representative said something outrageous in the FDA advisory committee that she didn't even understand why we needed any new treatments. The treatments we have for PTSD are good. They raised all sorts of um well I think it's really the issue of the media um and the negativity that started with the um well started before the ICA report but I think the FDA advisory committee um when you don't really have to justify your decisions based on the data you just say oh we doubt this we doubt that it's a lot easier so the FDA itself has been trying to change the advisory committee system to make it so that they advise but they don't vote cuz the vote makes it seem like they're much more judicial, they're much more, you know, scientific review, they're much more um rigorous than they actually are. So, I think it was that the um Dutch committee understood there was an unmet medical need. The FDA advisory committee didn't seem to grasp that. So I I think it was um a whole bunch of different factors. And I think historically um in some ways it's so coincidental you could say if the Dutch state committee had come out 2 days before the FDA committee then that would have influenced the FDA committee because it was like a scientific analysis of the data. But they came out 2 days after the FDA advisory committee. So the FDA advisory committee didn't know that there was this scientific body. Then what happened is the LIOS people and their media people made a major mistake which was they didn't tell people about the Dutch state committee. They purposely decided not to mention it to people and uh they just thought, "Oh, I don't know. It doesn't matter. It's Europe. Europe doesn't matter to us." Uh, it just was one strategic mistake on the other. >> Was it the reason why you resigned from the LIOS board? >> Um, no. No. The the what I what it felt to me like I was involved in a slow motion car crash where I was in the passenger seat and Lyos was in the driver's seat. So, it started earlier. I would say in March 2023 there was an article in Jamba psychiatry criticizing the psychotherrapeutic method by symposia and some main people los decided not to respond and then they blocked MAPS from responding they blocked me from responding they blocked the therapist from responding and they were able to say oh we don't respond to the critics because then it just brings more attention to the critics. So when you um are in a scientific discussions if you don't respond to the critics people think you don't have any response they think the critics are right. So I was silenced by being on the LOS board. They were able, the Likos management and the LOS board was able to convince enough people on the maps board that MAP should be silenced that I should be silenced. That because I'm on the LOS board, I should support management and no matter what they do, which isn't the way corporations work anyway. You can have activist shareholders that disagree. So I resigned from the Leico Sport so I would regain my voice. So MAPS would regain its voice. >> If you could start it over, what would you do differently? >> Well, I um would say the main thing I would do is there was this critical point where we started to get uh consultations from supposed experts on commercialization. Now, I studied my PhD. All of that was in drug development, but I didn't understand commercialization. Amy Emerson, her expertise was drug development. She didn't understand commercialization. So, then we get these consultants that are telling us, "Oh, you got to spend uh $70 million on this 80 90 person commercialization team, and you need um you should have started it a year ago." And this was at the rise of the um for-profit companies as well. And so we could no longer raise donations. People were saying we need to invest. Look at all these people making money. So this may sound um I don't know, arrogant maybe, but the mistake was trusting the experts. So, Antonio Gracias, who's the um the sort of new investor, his diagnosis was the main mistake we made was moving from startup to big pharma too soon. We ended up hiring people outrageous salaries because they thought they deserved them from being in the farm industry, traditional people, and they didn't really understand psychedelic therapy and they wanted to be more of a drug company, not a drug plus therapy company. So I think the main mistake was to not just muddle through and learn on the job as we did commercialization and to do it in a startup way and instead turn it over to experts who didn't really uh whose frame of reference was traditional pharma that that I think was the main mistake. >> Apart from commercialization uh there were also some accusations that it is like becoming a spiritual cult instead of a research project. >> What would you respond to that? Well, first off, let me say that um during this whole period of time, we were blocked from responding maps the the time where it mattered. Now it's after FDA rejection. So some kinds criticism seems so outrageous that you wonder how could anybody believe it. So a therapy cult or a u you know we're not an organization where everybody has to think the same thing. These are the accusations that were not responded to by LIOS that we were blocked from responding. I don't even know what it means really a therapy cult. You know, u we have very um independent-minded therapists. So, some of the criticisms are, oh, inner healing intelligence. you have this concept of inner healing intelligence and that's somehow biasing everybody and that's a spiritual thing and that there's this um somehow this mystical knowledge that you're you have to believe in this kind of inner healing intelligence um when the inner healing intelligence is um kind of an explanatory model I'd say it's more rigorous than serotonin model and neurotransmitter models, but it's not anything you have to believe in. The whole thing about inner healing intelligence is trust the process that that what's emerging, we support it. So then you can come up with what's your theory? Oh, there's an inner healing intelligence. We know there is an inner healing intelligence with our body. We know that our body tries to restore wholeness, that it works below our level of conscious awareness, that there's this self-healing mechanisms that happen all the time within certain limits. So these were accusations that I think were um made for the media made for but you know therapy cult our full share of independent-minded people disagreements not a therapy call you know if everybody thought I was right that would have been really better cuz I was right about a lot of things certainly more right than the pharma company people um so no I I I just think it's absurd >> you know and then when you say oh it's like Scientology where it's like Nexium where the you know sex cult where the people go to jail where it's um high control. None of that is is accurate at all. >> There were also some methodological uh criticisms like the blinding problem >> and expectancy bias. >> How do you see those issues? >> All right. So here's one of the classic examples of uh the terrible strategy of the the pharma company. So there was an article a couple weeks before the FD advisory committee and the Washington Post. The Washington Post raised some of these questions. What about the double blind? What about expectancy? And again, um, I wanted to reply and the maps, uh, media team wanted to reply and we got this message from Leo saying, "We do not need to convince the Washington Post. We just need to convince the FDA." And so we didn't reply. And so the advisory committee gets into this thing. Oh, we read the Washington Post that the we read the ICE all criticizing um, so the methodological problems. Um there's no good solution simple solution to the double blind problem but more importantly a big part of my dissertation which I completed in 2001 before we started all these studies was how to deal with the double blind problem and the solution that I have was different than the solution that you suggested basically it was that it should be therapy with lowd dose MDMA versus therapy with full dose MDMMA and the challenge is to find the low so to find the low dose that's high enough to cause confusion. So the challenge is what's the low dose that's not micro dose doesn't work. What's the low dose that's causing enough confusion? You're not sure whether it's the full dose, the smaller dose, but it's not such a high dose that it has therapeutic potential and then you you'll not be able to tell the difference between the two groups. So we spent 16 years trying to find the right dose. And we looked at therapy with inactive placebo, therapy with 25 milligrams, with 30 milligrams, with 40 milligs, with 50, 75, 100, 125, and 150. And in each of these situations, we give half the initial after 2 hours to to keep the plateau. And so we were sort of looking for this sweet spot of where is this dose? And what we found to our surprise was that the lower doses did cause a bit more confusion but they made people uncomfortable. So this is like the 25 um 30 40 and 50. And what it turned out is that we got better results in the people that got therapy with no MDMA than the people got therapy with lowd dose MDMA. Then the other so the example I use is like turbulence taking off in an airplane. At the beginning it's kind of turbulent. Uh but then you get high enough and it's smooth. So it's that way with low doses of things sometimes they can make you activate you. Now these are not even healthy volunteers of course. These are people with lots of PTSD. The other thing that surprised us, we did a study that um was in uh firefighters, police officers, and veterans mostly. Um and we had three different dose groups. And um one of them was around 30 milligs, one was 75, one was 125. And in this particular study, because of randomization, it's not always equal, but the group that had 125 had more comorbid depression with the PTSD than the group that had the 75. But the 75 milligram group did the best, even better than the 125 group. So even aside from this situation with the depression, we found that the 75 milligram dose group was very effective. So we didn't find this sweet spot of where to do this um control active control that was either not hurting the therapy as compared to no MDMA at all or not really helping the therapy. So I think we we hurt ourselves by wanting to be too scientific. So we went to the FDA during this 8-month process after we got approval to go to phase three. So, I knew that the double blind was going to be an issue and that we needed to come to an agreement with on FDA ahead of time and that's the whole purpose of this special uh protocol assessment process. And so, we presented that information. We said, "We'd be glad to give you blinding, but you're going to make our job easier to find a difference between the two groups because the blinding at these lower doses compromises the therapy." And then we said that the real question we think is if you can do this with therapy, why add the drug? And so you should be testing the therapy when it's the most effective. The other thing we said is that in the safety database, if we use a lowdose MDMA, we're not sure if there's serious adverse events. Are they due to this lowd dose MDMA that's making people uncomfortable or is it due to the therapy or or whatever? So when you have an inactive placebo, what you know is that whatever side effects you see are from the therapy from people with severe PTSD or moderate to severe PTSD going through the therapy. It's not because you've added a little catalyst of a drug. So you get a better safety database when you do therapy with inactive placebo. So we presented to the FDA and said you tell us what you want us to do. And then what they said is that in reality the double blind fails all the time even with SSRIs that you have the side effect profiles that the patients can recognize the the therapists often can recognize. So what the FDA said is that in acknowledgement of the um functional unblinding actually taking place, there's two main ways to reduce experimental bias that they wanted to introduce into the study. The first is something everybody does, random assignment. You know, everybody is similarly motivated. The second is this robust series of independent raiders where the raiders are blind to the condition whether somebody got MDMA or somebody got the placebo or whether they're in the control group or the treatment group and you have we had over 20 independent raiders that did monthly interrator reliability. They were randomly assigned to the next person that needed it. So we instituted this very robust system of independent raiders. Um and that that's what the the FDA agreed on. And so our problem was the people that we worked with at the FDA that agreed on this left the FDA and then new more conservative people at the Division of Psychiatry took over. Because when you make these agreements, you're not supposed to be making it with individuals. You're making with the agency. If you've had a chance to look at the briefing package that was given by the FDA to the advisory committee, these new people raised all these questions about the functional and blinding and we don't know if we can address the results. They would put in a little thing, but but we did agree to this. This is not the issue. But they didn't explain why. And the company itself did a very poor job of explaining how the design was chosen, why the FDA itself chose inactive placebo when presented with our data. And so the functional and blinding became a bigger issue. And it's something that it's it's something I knew because academic people who tend to be the ones that are in the advisory committee meeting, they're more um wedded to this idea, this theoretical idea of the um blinding. But the FDA and pharma companies know, you know, you need to make these tradeoffs. If you if a bl if a drug like a psychedelic drug produces um subjective experiences that it's hard to do blinding that doesn't mean you just throw away the drug and you never study it. You know there's practical things you try to see what is the impact of the functional and blinding. So I think that the results that we had when you have um chronic PTSD one of which which was defined as um people having 6 months PTSD people don't tend to get better unless there's some intervention. It's not like this um you know it comes and goes. So for example um I met this team that did expanded access in um it's called Pearl Pearl Institute. They're a little bit west of Asheville, North Carolina. They treated four people in the expanded access, the open uh sort of compassionate use o open label. And they had four people that had PTSD for enormously long times. One of them almost 60 years. These are people from Vietnam that had PTSD from Vietnam. They all got better and they no longer had PTSD. But these are people that had PTSD 30 years. One of them had PTSD about 60 years. So this idea that once you've got this chronic PTSD that oh it's just can disappear. It it's not that way. So when we have an intervention which our intervention is therapy either with or without MDMA, we're showing pretty remarkable results. And the the results that we showed in the therapy arm without the MDMA were really remarkable, better than any other therapy with a lower dropout rate. So what we're altering is long-term standing patterns and it's true that you can alter them with a different kind of therapy approach. So we have eight hour therapy, we have support, people have eye shades, they have music, they have a lot of time to go through it. You know, at my opening talk, I showed the results of a study that was done by the VA with 916 subjects. Took him like six years to do it, comparing the two main therapies, prolonged exposure and cognitive processing therapy. And they had roughly 50% of the people drop out of the study because the therapy itself was retraumatizing. We had much much less. I mean, in the MDMA group, hardly anybody dropped out. we had, you know, 2% something like that. In the placebo group, we had a higher dropout rate, but it was still way lower than the 50%. And some of it wasn't because they couldn't handle the therapy. It's because they realized it was the inactive placebo. They were disappointed. But um and then left the study. So I think this concept of is our data really unreliable because of this I I I don't think so. I think that we altered longstanding patterns. We demonstrated remarkable results in the control group which indicates to me that the therapists were really trying their hardest. They weren't just saying oh this guy got placebo or this woman got placebo let's just you know not try. The results were outstanding compared to any other therapy. So there's no evidence in my mind that the therapists didn't try hard or the patients didn't you know try to get better. >> Yeah. >> It's quite frustrating that ketamine went through the process very smoothly by and the MA didn't make it. >> Well ketamine was done by a big pharma. Yeah. If you look at the um they had suicides in the ketamine group. They had um real blinding problems. Um yeah but it was big pharma without therapy. >> I read this article from Thomas Enzo. He concluded that the regulatory system is not optimized for mental health care. >> Yes. >> It's like there is a major problem with the regulatory system. Do you agree with that? >> Completely. And I think in that same article that you're probably talking about with Tom Insul what he said is that the real innovation of maps was not looking at psychedelics. it was looking at psychedelics combined with therapy and really trying to optimize outcomes for what's best for the patients and that this innovation of drug plus therapy is something that had never really been through the FDA. So we just talked about ketamine. Ketamine was approved without therapy. I heard someone is uh works with ketamine patients took over a practice. Somebody has gotten ketamine 200 times. One of her patients another was 60 times. It's outrageous because when you don't use it with therapy, the results fade really quickly, you need more ketamine. But that's in the best interest of the pharma company because they're selling drugs. It's not about patience, it's about profits. So I think Tom Minsel was really right that this system um with this sort of wedded to the oh if the double blind doesn't work then we can't trust the results and that um how do you account for the therapeutic approach? >> Yeah. >> Two years ago you had a full white suit. >> This year you wore half black half white. I >> think you signify that you are in grief partly. >> Well black and blue sort of means you're bruised. Yeah. beaten up and bruised. >> Yeah. So, how did you work with that grief? You always say that >> people are meaning making machines. >> Yeah. >> How did you give a meaning to this uh to this um >> That's a Thank you. That's a really good question. Um it's been hard. Yeah. Because like I said, being in a slow motion uh car crash and not being in the driver's seat and seeing that LIOS is not responding to critics is not really um addressing the issues that were being raised. So the problem really is not the critics. That's science. Science is the critics. The problem is not responding. So it was kind of despair when I saw this strategy by traditional pharma people. Um that was sort of leading to disaster. So I just had to accept that a lot was accomplished. Not much of what I hoped that the pharma company not only that but absorbed and wasted lost hundreds of millions of value as well to maps. Yeah, it was tough I say but but then you think okay well that happened now what do I do now? So that that's what I'm saying. I think this conference took place recently now you know at a good amount of time after the defeats you know enough to try to process the grief and then try to move forward. So the way I kind of process my grief is by work I guess you know feel it but then try to move forward in some ways and have basically separated myself from the farm company and maps is focusing on um international work and humanitarian work and um in terms of our research. So I found ways that's things that are not happening otherwise that wouldn't happen if MAPS wasn't doing them that are meaningful that are important like for example um training Ukrainian therapists and trying to help bring MDMA to Ukraine for the enormous amount of trauma that's there. the pharma company's not going to say, "Oh, Ukraine, it's a big profit center. Let me go help, you know." So, that that's been really good going to Beirut and working there and trying to bring MDMA to Lebanon, you know, the work we're trying to do um in group therapy. So, LOS is not really doing much with group therapy. MAPS Israel has got the largest study in the world comparing individual therapy with group therapy. So it's by finding new ways to contribute, new things that need to be known that will help patients is the way I process the grief. >> Do you think that group therapy could solve the problem of the high price of psychedelic assisted therapy? >> No, I think what will well I think group therapy has a potential of um yeah dramatically lowering the cost. You may not expect this answer, but what we need is legalization. We need legal access for everybody under certain conditions, what they happen to be. You know, a license you get like a driver's license. I think you should get a license to do drugs. You have to take a little test. The thing is, if you misbehave, you then um get punished for your behavior, but you also lose your license to buy drugs. What I'm just trying to say is that we need um legal access for people who are not necessarily having a diagnosis at generic prices. An MDMA is sold for $10. You can buy MDMA for $20, $10. LICOS put out a cost effectiveness study that said that they believe they could justify to insurance companies $12,000 for one dose of MDMA because the results were so great. So, we need legalization and state level reform as a um sort of counter to the pharma industry. Now, group therapy will reduce the cost of the therapists, but if the company still says, "We're going to charge $12,000 a dose or whatever," I don't think they will. I think they just put there as a kind of a negotiating tactic saying that insurance companies, I think, would pay for that, but they will put a very high price on the drug. Um, and they'll try to capture as much of the money as they can from uh the consumer, from the patient for the drug. And so, for example, in this cost effective study, they put 12,000 uh roughly $12,400 for the therapists, $36,000 for the drug. All right? So, if you um reduce the therapy cost to nothing, it's outrageous to pay $36,000 to get MDMA. So, the group therapy will only reduce some of it. the pharma company and their approach to maximize profits. The thing I am concerned about is what the insurance companies are willing to pay is based on the outcomes that we got with highly trained therapists. The company's not going to do that. They So, I don't know that the um marketplace is going to get as good results as we did in the study. I don't know that the insurance companies will be willing to pay as much as the company put out in this paper. So I think as long as you've got pharma companies that are separating drug from therapy and are thinking about making money on the drug as much as they can that group therapy will only have marginal effects on making it more widely acceptable. However, let's say in Ukraine which we talked about before Ukraine is not part of the European Union. It's not necessarily part of the European Medicine's Agency. It doesn't it can chart its own way. It could because of the scale of the need, it could say we're going to start up manufacturing inside Ukraine and we're going to try to produce it at low low price and we're going to make it available uh to our millions and millions and millions of traumatized people. In that kind kind of a situation, group therapy could make all the difference. So the the current Trump administration has lot of controversial policies. Uh but it seems they are not so um negative about psychedelic research. Right. So how do you see the role of the federal government now? Do you think there will be any breakthroughs anytime soon? >> Um my feeling it's rather astonishing. Yeah. that one of the things that's going forward, one of the few things that's going forward is um support for psychedelics in the Trump administration. And I think there is real support there. Um I think the work that we did, the conscious strategy to try to work with veterans and sympathetic patients is what's got us bipartisan support. So there's very few things that are not part of the culture wars in the United States and psychedelics are one of them. And so I think that there is an interest in approving psychedelics. I think there is an interest in recognizing that the advisory committee wasn't really making a scientific decision. That they were hearing things that were exaggerated, not true. MAPS is a therapy called everybody's getting abused in these studies, things like that. Or that it was liable for many people to be abused. The number of veteran suicides is terrible. more people are dying. You know, I think MDMA really helps with reduced suicidality where I said before that we had the um inactive placebo cuz then we could have a better safety b database cuz we had one person tried to kill herself twice, another person checked herself into a hospital not to kill herself. Both were in the placebo group. We had none of that in the MDMA group. And so I think the work in the VA, the work in the with the active duty soldiers will demonstrate and we have evidence from the past already that MDMA can really reduce suicidality. And so I think that the Trump administration, the people there will know that and they will see that. And so I think there's um a challenge to um address the critics and demonstrate to the FDA that the data is valid that the and that there should be a way to move forward and if they have to move forward with more data that it should be on um in a phase 4 context post approval, not another phase 3 study. Whether that'll happen or not, I'm not sure, but there it will be approved eventually. And I think that's the u the main message. I think that my personal view is that if LOS was going to be more focused on the therapy and saying we're going to have minimum requirements of uh therapist before they work with a patient, we will want them to have certain kind of trainings. The trainings they get to become a therapist or to become a psychiatrist. Right now, since no psychedelic therapies are legal, you don't get educated in psychiatry or or psychotherapy schools about psychedelic psychotherapy. If the company were to say we want to have a certain number of requirements that people know this or that, that would reassure the FDA, but I don't think the company is going to do that. So, but I still think that the um there's a good chance that because of the major unmet medical need that the um under this Trump administration, they will move forward with approval. But I can't say it's either hopefully within the next 6 months or a year it'll be yes without another phase three study or if it's another phase three study it'll be three or four years. >> It's almost 40 years you you you founded MAPS. Uh if we if if the Rick Dublin of the 80s would could time travel and come to see what how is the psychedelic scene today, would he be enthusiastic or disappointed? >> Well, um that would be both. When you think about um MDMA being criminalized in 1985, okay, so that that is uh 40 years ago. How many veterans have committed suicide since then? Hundreds of thousands more than 200,000 have committed suicide just veterans. So if I would have seen that it would have taken almost 40 years and we're not there, you know, it's tragic. Um, but when I started, I thought it might never work anyway. I mean, we were in the middle of this massive DEA suppression of it, but also when I started in '86, um, we were in this period where FDA was blocking all psychedelic research. There was no psychedelic research, not anywhere in the world even. So it was pretty grim when I started. And so in some ways um I'd be disappointed at the scale of the suffering that didn't need to be and that it has taken us this long. But on the other hand, I never thought that there would be hundreds of for-profit psychedelic companies, a lot less now, a bunch of them have gone out of business, but that there would be over$4 billion dollars invested in for-profit psychedelic companies. So, in that way, I I would have been kind of astonished that we are where we're at, that we have state programs like Oregon. Over 10,000 people have gotten legal access to psilocybin in Oregon more than any uh all the psilocybin research all over the world in the last 25 years. So in one hand, you know, we're in a good shape. I think it's moving forward. The tragedy is it took so long. But the good part is I started at a point where it seemed impossible. It would just seem like worthy to do. But I somehow knew that the therapy, the benefits were so true. And the fear when I started, the fears were so unrealistic. You know, MDMMA holes in your brain, you're going to cause terrible neurotoxicity. One dose. This is what the National Instant Drug Abuse was saying to criminalize it. One dose, serious brain damage, major functional consequences. when hundreds of thousands of people were doing fine, it was like this complete twisted political approach towards science. So I guess um we are where we are. I um it always felt like a good idea to keep working on it. Um but I think if I would have told it would take 40 years and it still wouldn't be approved, I I would have been shocked. I wouldn't have stopped doing anything, but I would have been shocked. So it's a multigenerational struggle, right? >> Yes. Yeah. >> What are the most exciting developments in psychedric science these days? >> The project in maps Israel will be the the largest study in the world, the only study in the world that I'm aware of right now comparing directly individual therapy versus versus group therapy for scaling for reducing the cost. That that's really exciting. There's projects in Australia that are tremendous where they're actually working where depression uh but they give people two psilocybin experiences, two MDMA experiences. So they're starting to say it's not a treatment that is just one psychedelic necessarily. We're now trying to different psychedelics have different qualities, different bring things different things to the surface. So basically what I'm saying is that the science is starting to catch up with the underground. the underground is way ahead of the scientific research. So there's starting to be studies where you give patients not just one psychedelic but several. One of the things that was the most uh intriguing to me that I'm very hopeful about is a project from Brazil and this is a project that's using um DMT for depression. So it started out as um iawasa for depression, but it was iawasa taken out of the religious ceremonial context and administered in a hospital setting without a ceremony and iwaska showed that it was uh was very helpful in in reducing depression. Similar to psilocybin, you you break these patterns of thought. But then the researchers have thought, well, let's see what happens with DMT. And so they've done it where you smoke DMT for 15 minutes. Um, you're high, but it's 4 hours of prep and therapy during the actual session. And the results are as good as Iaska. And they think this is a remarkable new opportunity in a shorter period of time to use DMT. So we've taken they have taken in Brazil from the indigenous use then moved the Iwasa into a scientific context the scientific medical ritual you could say and now they've moved it just to the DMT in vape vape pens or shorter so it's it's this evolution that I think is respectful of the indigenous use and the what they want to do is try to develop it in a public a real public benefit company as hopefully relatively lower expensive treatment for depression. Um so in a way this is an opportunity to do what I had wanted to do with lyos is really focus on public benefit and that's been so that that's been tremendously exciting for me. Ketamine combined with therapy is also a bunch of reports were done here. There's a group that does ketamine assisted couples therapy. So, as I said, as we talked, ketamine has been approved without therapy and it's sub-optimal and the results fade and but you got to buy more ketamine. But more and more people are understanding if they're about the patients that it's better to combine ketamine with therapy. That's like Tom Insel saying our innovation is really psychedelics with therapy. So, I think this um movement to add therapy to ketamine I think is going to be getting bigger. the neuroscience research is moving forward really quite a lot but I don't see that the neuroscience knowledge is actually helping the patients. I don't see it translating to the clinic but I do see it translating to potentially developing new medications to trying to develop new molecules and understanding new receptor sites. Um, I think the other part that is really exciting, you might be surprised to hear me say it, but it's non- psychedelic psychedelics. Um, there's there's this um what I also learned. Yeah. That that um for sort of traumatic brain injury, for neuroplasticity, um for cluster headaches, for example, you don't need the psychedelic um component necessarily. That's what was has been demonstrated with Bromemo LSD, non-csychedelic version of LSD and it still helps. So I think there's a lot of benefits for brain recovery, traumatic brain injury that can come from taking the psychedelic out of the psychedelics. >> And the last question about the conference um you you uh I mean the main theme of the conference was integration. Why have you chosen this uh team and how do you feel about the conference? like could it uh really uh bring us closer to the understanding of integration? >> Yeah. Well, I think the theme of integration was chosen because in a way FDA had rejected MD was we it's about integration into society. So not just integration after a psychedelic experience but integration of psychedelics into society and we'd been through this sort of downturn where the integration was pushed away both uh the Massachusetts natural plant initiative which um went down to defeat with 57% no and the FDA rejection of MDMA. So it was the um rejection of integration and so we chose integration as the theme to try to say where we need need to go. Um I think that this conference will help tremendously. I mean there were some um major policy makers, senior people from the Trump administration that are going to have a big impact on how psychedelics get regulated. They were here. Um there was people from the military, a lot of people, there was politicians from all different spectrums, you know, all different political parties. There was people from all over the world, there was people from different states in the US that are doing state programs. So I think the sharing the sense of hope and optimism and the I mean what I'll just say is that there was incredible research presented at this conference so much stuff that I didn't even know was even happening. I think the strength of the research the strength of uh the many many different ways that psychedelics have been helpful for patients different psychedelics different patient it's just overwhelming the the evidence. So I think that that is going to continue. Plus we had some major um donors that are finding ways to help in the community. So I think the donors the you know maps made us half a million dollar match that was good but there's people considering investing $50 or $100 million in philanthropy in psychedelics around the world. So I think the conference um was tremendously successful. It was agony I would say over the last 6 months internally. So many things didn't go as we wanted and it was just struggle and it was you know you're constantly fielding complaints and some of them justified and so it was just this real agony up to the conference but once the conference started it just felt like a state of grace like it was smooth. We're all grateful we're here. We're all learning from each other. So I feel that the you know Fox News w was here. Um so I think it it's really going to help integrate into the culture and it'll be a inspirational moment for a lot of the the the people that were here and the recognize we just got to keep going and that it will eventually succeed and the the patients count on us. The you know the world's in a kind of um warlike state like now in a lot of different places. the the scale of the trauma, the scale of uh what Trump is doing, not just ignoring climate change, it's actively trying to destroy um responses to climate change to defund um alternative renewable energy and things like that. So that the this sense of uh blindness but the sense of of disruptions that's going to be occurring over time that America is making worse now I think makes people more realize we need to help people process this trauma this struggles that what we're doing to the environment what we're doing to full immigrants all of this a lot of people didn't come to the conference cuz they didn't want to come to America come. So, thank you guys. You know, um so I think overall the conference um was just a tremendous success and will and has inspired lots of people, inspired me, inspired the map staff, but the important part is what you're doing now. It's telling the story. We need to really So, the storytelling part is what was lost by Leo saying, "We're not going to respond. We're going to have a quiet period. We're going to block maps." We lost control of the narrative. And I think this conference is helping regain control of the narrative. [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: eBEcU6Wazik (https://youtu.be/eBEcU6Wazik) ===

think we've let the drug war demonized recreational use sounds frivolous and dangerous and Reckless and irresponsible but it's it's really not and I think the um the Rave movement is sort of a antidote to the fact that for many people the religious rituals that they have just don't work and so we've had to create our own in ' 82 I came out to study with Stan gra and Christina gra at elen and somebody came to the monthlong workshop with MDMA and at first I was unimpressed the way they described it because I thought it's not the the bells and whistles and the whole lightning and all this from LSD or anything it was just quietly helps you to talk to each other and feel your emotions and I was like I feel fine ready what do I need it for but I thought I should buy some anyway and give it a try so I I tried MDMA with my girlfriend and it was just a revelation about how profound it is and at the same time I realized that it was starting to be sold as ecstasy so I and it was also the rise of the Nancy Reagan just say no so I knew that it was inevitably going to be crushed there were quite a number of psychologist psychiatrists other therapists using it kind of as a catalyst for therapy in the late 70s early 80s it was not an approved drug but it wasn't illegal either so in 84 I started a nonprofit before maps that was the whole Community together and uh the the therapists and the the researchers and and so we had a chance where it was legal to try to build a base of support and Witnesses for a potential legal case and that's where I contacted Robert Mueller at the United Nations the assistant Secretary General and he helped me uh to meet a lot of religious professionals who I sent MDMA to and they tried it in monasteries and all these places and and so we ended up in in 1984 the DEA moved to criminalize MDMA and so we I I went to Washington and um filed for an administrative law judge hearing which to our utter astonishment we won and the judge said that MDMA should stay in schedule three it should be illegal for non-medical use but therapists and psychiatrists should be able to have it available to their patients but then the DEA administrator overruled that and put it in schedule one so that's where I started maps in ' 86 and the idea was that there is no way but through the FDA that the drug war is too powerful but maybe through science and medicine we can make some progress right now there's four main streams of psychedelic research going on one is uh MDMA for postraumatic stress disorder and I think that will be the first through the system MDMA is more gentle people don't have Panic reactions so much our first study that we completed and published was with mostly people with um childhood sexual abuse or rape they all had to have had therapy and medications before and not not been helped adequately among the people people that um got the MDMA with therapy uh basically 83% had a a good clinical response versus 25% with a therapy only by the end of 2021 we're hoping that MDMA would be a prescription medicine the other stream is psychedelics for end of life people tend to be more scared of dying than they are of drugs so if we can show that with drug assistant Psychotherapy we can help the dying process people are willing to listen and I think that's really important we haven't touched their disease process they still experience the pain they're still dealing with the fact that they're going to leave their loved ones or their children in some cases these are parents of uh of uh of kids who are who are young um that sadness is still there but there's also a larger framing of that and so it's very touching and then the third strand is psychedelics for the treatment of addiction we decided to tackle uh cigarette smoking addiction we've treated 13 uh people to date most of whom are completely abstinent from smoking after their first psilocybin session and then the fourth strand of research is psychedelic Neuroscience to really understand Consciousness and understand uh how the brain functions an analogy that you could use to describe how the drug affects brain activity is either to say that brain activity becomes relatively disordered disorganized in the state another thing that you could say is that it's not entire disorder that rather it's more like the brain enters a more kind of anarchic state perhaps the the most interesting finding is that the the the frontal cortex that's perhaps the the command and control center of the brain uh diminishes his activity and other the brain areas take control and this is the way how uh uh stored information that's not usually available to Consciousness starts reaching Consciousness MDMA is terrific for coup's therapy for just relationships now having a difficult relationships not a disease that's why we're not doing we have to focus on diseases for political reasons to try to get drugs through the FDA but I think we wouldd have a lot more happy people and a lot more successful relationships if people were assisted with MDMA to talk to each other and to acknowledge and listen better if this is in fact something that can help a lot of people and the we're at this stage of the research which is um you know at least 20 years behind where it would be if PE if it had been guided only by science and not by politics and fears and other forces that's really actually a travesty so there's a growing consensus among scientists that drug laws and prohibition around psychedelic drugs is irrational it's unhelpful maybe it'll be like the 40 years in the desert you know we the at the end of the 40 years maybe I'll finally have the opportunity to become a legal psychedelic therapist in the promised land in the promised land and in the Glorious future where psychedelics are integrated and people are balanced and we're not so scared of people different than us and people are have shifted from fundamentalism to sort of direct spirituality and people look at the drug war is one of the worst policies in the history of America and we think now let's party I shouldn't say that part but

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 099UPgNeNy0 (https://youtu.be/099UPgNeNy0) ===

[Music] [Applause] [Music] I'm going to be um sort of speaking about two different things in my talk today the first is about the mystical experiences U with psychedelics which are similar to Mystical experiences in other ways and how that impacts social change so it's like the political implications of the non-u experience and and then I'm going to be talking about the therapeutic outcomes and in that context I'm going to talk about what we're trying to do to work through the FDA in order to bring psychedelic Psychotherapy back into Medical Practice into uh so it's not so much the psychology of the future but it's the psychology of uh hopefully the present um and it's it's it's still a little bit in the future we're predicting 2021 for MDMA becoming a prescription medicine but but those are the um what I'll talk to you about today and I want to start by um really talking about how many of us um perceive the current world situation it's uh a lot of it is in a crisis and Albert Einstein has said it has become appallingly obvious that our technology has exceeded our humanity and I think that's really clear that we have so much uh incredible scientific knowledge but we don't have the spiritual and emotional maturity to handle it and as a consequence the environment's being destroyed there's the potential of nuclear destruction so how do we really handle the products of the mind that we have developed that are incredibly powerful and there's U some hints in the UNESCO Charter it says since Wars begin in the the minds of men it is in the minds of men that the defenses of Peace must be constructed so what they're saying essentially is that it's psychological factors that are really what threaten the survival of the human race the survival of the life on Earth and that we have to find some way psychologically to bring about a healthier State and Albert Einstein again has said the splitting of the atom has changed everything save our mode of thinking and thus we drift towards unparalleled catastrophe what we shall require a substantially new manner of thinking if mankind is to survive now what is this new manner of thinking that he's talking about and and I think it is precisely the non-u thinking it's that recognition that underneath all of the different ways that we Define ourselves in terms of our country our religion our race our gender our socio economic status all the different ways that we um draw our identity that also makes us and Them distinctions that if we can understand underneath all of that that we're all together that it's all one then that will breed more tolerance more understanding and that that's the new mode of thinking and that's what we see is happening all over the world this emphasis on U globalization but it's also coming into conflict with a lot of fundamentalism and so how do we promote this uh new manner of thinking and in the early 1980s I was inspired by a book by Robert Mueller and Robert Mueller was the assistant Secretary General of the United Nations kind of the Mystic of the United Nations and this book was um new genesis shaping a global spirituality and you could see also the profound shift in Consciousness that took place once we had images of the Earth from the Moon once people could really understand that the planet was you know a single system and this book was really basically that thesis is that we need this mystical experience that is anchored not in just a few people but in millions and billions of people and then we'll have a more peaceful world and his book was inspiring but he didn't say anything about psychedelics and so I I decided that I would write him uh a letter and I was just a college undergraduate at the time and I said you know I'm really profoundly influenced by your book but there is a lot of people who found this kind of spirituality through psychedelics and right now that research is suppressed all over the world as part of the counter reaction against the 60s I said would you help to bring back psychedelic research from your position at at the UN and I told him a lot about the Good Friday experiment which I'll tell you about in just a few minutes and and to my utter surprise um he wrote me back a handwritten note and he said he would help and that he did agree that it was important for science to use psychedelics to understand mystical experiences and that from whatever he could do he would he would help out and through incredible coincidences um in 1984 and '85 um MDMA was starting to be criminalized and uh we were doing pretty well shutting them down in slowing them down slowing DEA down in the United States and they moved internationally Through The Who and Stan's brother Paul was actually in charge of um this committee that was reviewing the scientific evidence to make recommendations about whether whether MDMA and other molecules should be criminalized and Robert Mueller arranged for me to go speak to the scientific adviser of that committee and in a tremendous uh lone sort of heroism Paul was the only one of that committee that voted against the criminalization of MDMA and there was just a tiny little footnote in their report to the uh who about recommending the criminalization and it said that um Paul was worried that the criminalization would slow down the research and that he encouraged the committee he got the committee to encourage the nations of the world to facilitate Research into this most interesting substance so what on the larger scale looked like a major defeat that MDMA was recommended for criminalization all over the world this little footnote eventually was used by the Swiss government in 1988 to resume research with psychedelics and so sort of the lone critic standing up against the tide of History can can make a difference and and Paul was a great example of that as is St um so the Good Friday experiment this is really what I was um speaking about with robbert Mueller this was one of the best things that Timothy liry ever did um he was The Faculty sponsor for Walter Panky um this was an experiment that was done in 1962 on Good Friday and it was the first scientifically rigorous study looking at whether psychedelics in this case psilocybin administered to religiously inclined people in a religious setting could facilitate a mystical experience and according to the scholars Walter Houston Clark at the time he said there are no experiments known to me in the history of the scientific study of Religion better designed or clearer in their conclusions than this one now the study actually took place at Marsh Chapel in Boston univer at Boston University and it took place downstairs in the Robinson Chapel the sermon from the the main Chapel was sort of piped in downstairs and there was 20 subjects from Andover Newton Theological Seminary and 10 helpers that were Timothy ly Richard Albert Ralph mner um Houston Smith an incredible group of people that were assisting half the helpers and half the Divinity students got psilocybin and the other half got a placebo um to give you a sense as to how non-controversial in a sense this was in 1962 the minister was Reverend Howard Thurman and Howard Thurman was the chaplain of mar CH of marsh Chapel but he was also Martin Luther King's Mentor he was absolutely incredible preacher very beautiful ofoc itive preacher and he led the service he permitted This research to take place uh in this basement chapel and the actual sermon and service still exists we have tape recordings of the Good Friday experiment from that day that I got from evap Pony Walter's uh Widow now in order to do this experiment the question was you know what is a mystical experience and we heard from Robert Thurman about all the different layers but this was an attempt by Walter to develop a typology of mysticism that spanned different religions cross-cultural and defined it without any particular references to specific religious figures in any particular religion so even though this was on Good Friday in a Christian Church um there was no mention of identification with Christ so this is kind of an abstract definition of what a mystical experience was and this same questionnaire slightly modified is now being used in the research with MDMA with psilocybin with LSD to try to quantify the depth of the mystical experience and so to give you a sense of what it was um there's six criteria the the first one is this sense of unity and it can be either internal or external the formless or connected with everything that is and this is the primary uh way to evaluate the the mystical experience there's also the Transcendence of time and space the sense of Eternity um there's a sense of sacredness and and I use this picture from um the Western Wall and the Dome of the mosque Dome of the Rock there um somehow this feeling of there's something sacred about it there's also a sense of objective reality that something about this is true uh sometimes more true than what we see with our senses there's a deeply felt positive mood and a sense that it's ineffable this is an mcer thing that you can't really describe it in words and in the 80s when I after I had written to um Robert Mueller about this Good Friday experiment I had to do a thesis at the college that I went to uh everybody had to do a senior thesis and I wanted to do psychedelic research but it was suppressed at that time and I realized that sometimes long-term follow-ups are crucial in terms of understanding the importance and the lasting impact of studies that have been done long before and that with long-term follow-ups you're not actually giving drugs you're just giving questionnaires and Walter Panky had died in a scuba diving accident in 197 71 and so I I'm sure that if he was alive he would have done this long-term followup because in terms of the mystical experience the key uh element is called the fruits test so it's not so much how you describe it although it is how you describe what happens but what are the consequences of the mystical experience what are the fruits of the tree and if you can understand that then that adds another layer of validity to the initial experiment so I decided that I would do a long-term 25e followup to this study this I published in the Journal of transpersonal Psychology and what I was able to do was to um identify 19 out of the 20 of the original participants um there was no list of their names there um I went to Timothy liry and and others and said you know do you have a list of their names there was no list I went to Andover Newton and asked if they had a list they didn't have a list I went to their library and they didn't even have Walter panky's thesis they one of the most important studies ever done that it was like cultural Amnesia at the time and I said okay could could I put a notice in your newsletter to alumni and say if anybody was in the study would you have them contact me and they said absolutely not we will not do that you know we don't want to know anything about this so I I went back to the library and I stumbled on a list of their alumni um as of uh 1973 I was kind of out of date but I just figured okay I'm going to write to every single person and eventually that led me to three or four people and then that led me and I got to 19 of them and I traveled all over the country and I interviewed them and part of the reason for me was um this this theory that I've uh described to you in a sense the the political implications of the non-u experience exp erience I I wanted to doublecheck that and so what I did was I first off administered the same questionnaire to the people that were in the original study and the important Point here if you can look at this uh bottom number now this is the average the way it was set up is if you had 60% of the possible score that was considered a full mystical experience and these were the experimental groups 60.8 and this was um the control group and the study showed that those people that did have the cybin had this um mystical experience much more um nine out of the 20 had a mystical experience eight out of those nine were from the sil cybin group but after 25 years filling out the same questionnaire in retrospect it was very similar a little bit better even and didn't hardly change in the placebo group so at the time of the Reagan escalation of the War on Drugs at the time of just saying no when people would have the most cultural pressure to reject their prior mystical experience these people affirmed it and that that incredible also what I found is that people were able to remember the experiment a lot of the people in the experim the control group didn't really have much didn't have many Vivid memories um a few did but most didn't and everybody who had the psilocybin could tell me very Vivid details about portions of their experience so something first off about memory about the way these experiences are deeply and profoundly imprinted on memory was clear but also they talked about the implications of the sense of spirituality to their personal spiritual life and their political life and so what what these people said was that it helped them resolve career decisions the recognize the arbitrariness of ego boundaries increased their depth of Faith increased their appreciation of eternal life not in the sense of um necessarily reincarnation but just that they were part of this Timeless process it deepened their sense of the meaning of Christ and it heightened their sense of joy and Beauty these are the kind of things that are the fruits of the mystical experience for them as they reported but from my point of view from a political point of view and just to mention I um wanted to become psychedelic psychotherapist I wrote Stan a letter in 1972 um I read the Realms of the human unconscious in a manuscript copy when I was just 18-year-old given to me by the guidance counselor at my college where I went because I was having troubles integrating my LSD experiences and uh I was so fortunate to to read Stan's book and that clarified everything for me because there was science looking at spirituality looking at values and looking at therapeutic outcomes so it was the reality check can we actually use all of this information to help people and I thought this would be my road forward I would dedicate myself to bringing psychedelics back um and that was the the decision I made at at 18 in 1972 because I sort of believed in some of the ideology of the 60s I saw the Beatles doing LSD and talking about Love Not War I think there's something about the the Crackdown that happened was actually when psychedelics go right not when psychedelics go wrong so here's what they said they said that the mystical experience produced an increase of tolerance for other religions it deepened equinity in the face of difficult life crises it promoted greater solidarity and identification with foreign peoples minorities women these were all men and nature and it reduced their fear of death so this was really confirmation for me of the importance politically of bringing back psychedelics not just psych psychotherapeutically but politically to to Build a Better World and is this possible in our Western culture well if we look back in history the longest running mystery ceremony that we know of the elisian Mysteries ran for 2,000 years and in Greece and was wiped out in 396 by the Catholic Church who wanted to have a monopoly on access to God and Albert Hoffman and Carl Ruck and Gordon Watson did some studies and wrote about how there was a potion kikon that was drank during these elosan Mysteries that had an airut derivative in it that was similar to LSD so we're not so much trying to establish for the first time in Western culture the enshrinement of non-ordinary states of Consciousness and spiritual ceremonies like this but it's going back to the origins in a way we've kind of lost our way so H how do we get there and this is important chart here and it it really shows to me that legalization follows medicalization so this is a chart about public attitudes towards the legalization of marijuana over the last 40 years this is the like galap pole so what you see here in 1970 only 12% were in favor of legalizing marijuana there was a rise during the 70s and this is corresponding Decline and those people that are against it there was this rise during the 70s and then there was the backlash the parents movements there was a certain I think um arrogance in the Psychedelic Community also um one dose miracle cure we're all enlightened we know more than everybody else you know we're the counterculture that kind of identification results in uh or almost invites Crackdown um but then what we see here is that things go flat once this backlash comes about for about 20 years starting here around 1996 the public attitudes towards the legalization of marijuana start to climb and a few years ago they crossed the 50% Mark so what really happened when we start thinking about it when that Crackdown happened what really started bringing things back and 1996 is when California and Arizona passed the medical marijuana laws and then more and more states started doing that so the medicalization of marijuana has changed attitudes towards the legalization of marijuana and we know this also from exit polls the the people who are running the initiatives on medical marijuana and now marijuana legalization are getting pretty sophisticated and they've got resources they've got polers and so exit polls have shown that the single most important factor in terms of whether somebody is in favor of the legalization of marijuana is not if they smoke marijuana themselves you you would think that people who smoke pot don't want to be criminals but there's a more important fact Factor even which is if you know a medical marijuana patient you have a direct knowledge about the benefits and it overcomes a lot of this propaganda so legalization follows medicalization so how then do we bring back psychedelics bring back these experiences above ground and for me it's through medicalization and so in 1986 I started maps to um as basically a nonprofit pharmaceutical company focused on psychedelics and marijuana and for a bunch of different reasons I felt that MDMA is the most gentle of the psychedelics um we believe that psychotherapists are more effective if they um give MDMA to therapist to patients if they've done it themselves I mean you don't go to a yoga teacher who doesn't do yoga you don't study meditation from somebody that doesn't meditate so I think the fields of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy there's more resistance to them doing LSD or doing psilocybin there is to doing MDMA so I think also MDMA is easy to integrate the experience it's it's more openhearted um so I I felt that from strategic point of view MDMA is the drug that we wanted to focus on to try to bring back through the FDA system and this started in 1984 you can um kind of see me back there this is me spying on the DEA um they're they're always looking at us and I figured all right so this is actually right before I walked in the door and submitted a petition to request a hearing they had moved to criminalize MDMA which they knew only as ecstasy the underground therapy movement knew of it as adom and there was about half a million doses used in the um therapeutic personal growth context none of that really came to the attention of the DEA but some of those people who were involved in that said aha this is something should be wider uh wider used and they decided to call it ecstasy and do Mass marketing of it and that's what attracted the attention of the DEA but prior to to this we knew this Crackdown was coming and so we were um sort of introducing MDMA to various people and I want to just highlight two of them and also indicate to you that there's um spiritual aspects mystical aspects to MDMA this is Brother David steinel Rost um Roman Catholic monk who was um at a monastery right near elen and so um he came actually in 1982 to a workshop that I took with Stan on the Miss Santa Christina on the mystical Quest and he took an interest in this and and since it was legal at the time he was willing to um take a gift of MDMA and do also he was referred to me by um Robert Mueller and so he took MDMA in the monastery in a half dose for meditation and he said a monk spends his whole life cultivating the same awakened attitude MDMA gives you and this was in Newsweek in 1985 this was sort of the first media that was coming out about MDMA and so we completely destroyed The Stereotype of the hedonistic party using young person recklessly taking drugs instead we had the Brother David talking about MDMA and then zman shocker shalomi an orthodox Rabbi who had actually done LSD earlier with Tim ly he said you call the Sabbath a delight MDMA is like the sabath at the end of a long week and this was in The Washington Post um and so I was U you know involved in now this DEA lawsuit and as the spokesperson I was saying I think that it should be U medical tool schedule three available to psychiat but psychiatrist psychotherapist but I don't think that it should be illegal I think that the non-medical use is legitimate and people can grow and so that was a delicate kind of position to take and that got me La labeled as uh this is a cover of the Miami newsp I lived in Florida and it says the selling of ecstasy um how a Sarasota college student became the Timothy ly of the 1980s so this was not my most successful um you know media relations on the other hand this is Tim ly um and and this was actually at a conference for maps and I was asking him um for his advice on you know how to deal with the government um and he said [ __ ] the government he said I am so far beyond asking for permission he said but I'm really glad you're trying to do it so um so what we're uh doing now is um nonprofit drug development this is our drug development plan um our first study in the US started in 2004 I don't want you to look at the details but just the point is that uh We've hired a woman Amy Emerson from novaris and and so she's guiding our clinical development we have an incredible team of people who are uh helping us do this clinical research and we've actually um are able to work as a we have a consultant as a former senior FDA official from the division of Psychiatry products who's advising us as well so this is our drug development plan the goal is to get um MDMA approved by 2021 uh GMP means uh medical grade good manufacturing practices and then we're going to be training therapists and ultimately setting up a network of psychedelic clinics um the model here is the hospice center that uh 200 2004 there was 3,500 of these in every town but the first one was 30 years before in 1974 so it will take several decades I think to roll out psychedelic clinics so the Psychiatry of the future will start in a few years but it will really permeate I think over the next couple decades what permits us to do this is what I call the aido strategy of U develop drug development and it's because MDMA is demonized because LSD is demonized because psilocybin and marijuana have all been demonized schedule on drugs governments of the world have spent an enormous amount of money trying to show their risks and this stuff is in the public this is in the public domain so if you go to Medline and you put in um ecstasy or MDMA you get over 5,000 papers we estimate at a cost of over $300 million the risks are very well characterized we understand mechanism of action pretty well and over 1100 people only a few more than a hundred are from our studies but over 1100 people have received MDMA in clinical research funded usually by the government so we're building on this and the first thing we need to do to make U MDMA into a medicine is develop a medical grade MDMA so we've just signed a contract with the firm in the United Kingdom uh chassan to make 1 kilog medical grade MDMA I had a kilogram made by Dave Nichols 1985 for $4,000 it's it's great it's super pure but it's not uh properly documented to be used for phase three and prescription use this current kilogram same amount is going to cost about $400,000 um but if we start actually succeeding they've got the capability to scale up um we we've done studies uh multiple countries of the world part of this again is a political strategy in case there's a backlash we're able to work in other countries but now it doesn't look like there will be a backlash although we're very careful to um scan the Horizon constantly for that um this is our treatment model um what we basically do is the three and a half month treatment process and we think of it as MDMA assisted Psychotherapy it's really Psychotherapy punctuated by three sessions of MDMA um our initial studies are um really just the this is the the screening measures we've got these weekly non-drug Psychotherapy these triangles are the MDMA sessions then more integrative work then another MDMA session and at this point we break the blind after the second like two months after the second session and then the people that had the full dose get a third session and then two months and one year follow- up and the people that were in the placebo group we let them go through the study again what's called open label so that they can then we can they're their own controls so it's scientifically valuable and it also um helps with Recruitment and Retention because everybody's going to get the full dose MDMA so that's the first session second session there's the outcomes then the third session and then it goes back again those people that were there and then the two Monon and one year followup this is where the treatments take place in Charleston South Carolina similarly uh outfitted treatment centers and other places and our therapeutic itic approach is based on a non-directive approach that we've learned from Stan and others but it's this idea that there is Stan talked about the the radar the inner radar of things coming up of what you need to deal with and so we have a non-directive approach with the inner healer the inner wisdom and whatever it happens to be and we'll work with that and we've developed a treatment manual and we have adherence Raiders that are able to watch um videotapes of all the therapy sessions and give feedback to the therapists about how well they're um complying to the manual and not to say that this ours is the only way or the best way it's just the way that we think uh optimizes outcomes now in terms of outcomes we're well we're going to have about um5 people and we are now near the end of a 15-year process starting in 2000 of treating all these people for PTSD and we're Gathering the data to submit to the FDA and the first thing they want to know is safety so the concerns about MDMA have been about neurotoxicity about brain changes but the functional consequences have been focused mostly on supposed neurocognitive consequences of heavy ecstasy users so we've done a series of neurocognitive studies before and after uh subjects have been in our study um this again is the placebo people these are the compare this is the low do this is around 100 milligrams this around 25 milligram you can see that the red is uh after MDMA so there's no evidence whatsoever of this um this was the completely doctored brain scan shown by Oprah also on MTV of a woman who uh supposedly abused MDMA and has holes in her brain um what what they did here was uh this is a spec scan blood flow through the brain and they just took an arbitrary level of any area that had blood flow below a certain area and they just turned it into a hole so completely fraudulent but very scary um we've also done studies with body temperature sometimes people overheat and die at Raves young people who end up um getting hypothermia um so we've shown very little effect on um temperature these are at different doses uh very minimal one degree about rise temporary so there's no real problems with temperature when taken in a clal setting this is about blood pressure there's really no significant um concerns here about blood pressure either we do um permit people who have controlled hypertension but if people have uncontrolled hypertension we won't work with them at least initially so this is also reassuring to the FDA um and then these are some of the um side effects anxiety jog clenching appetite um these are ones that are just where um the low doses you know actually have higher fatigue muscle tension so you can see that people who are suffering from PTSD um they even when they don't get much MDMA they have some side effects but there's nothing alarming here so that's also reassuring so we think that we can address the safety concerns but this is really the key thing I want to show you today in terms of our outcomes what's going on here is effect size um we all know about statistical or most of us know about statistical significance but you can have large numbers of people in a study and have statistical significance but have a finding that's not clinically significant small findings large number of subjects statistically significant so a new measure has been developed called effect size and effect size um it's about3 is small 0.5 is medium 08 is large the drugs that FDA has approved for PTSD have about A3 U effect size uh we have much we have large effect sizes this is what this column is showing you so we are able to take people who have failed on other medications treatment resistant and we're able to um really help them most of them end up a lot better off and so this is also encouraging and we think that um this will be something that the FDA will take into account as we apply uh in February or March or so we're going to summarize all of our data and submit an end of phase two meeting and ask to debate the design of phase three with FDA and we hope to have that concluded by early 2017 now the psilocybin research is also going on now psilocybin for end of life psilocybin for alcoholism and the early work that Stan has done with LSD with alcoholics with end of life with people that had cancer were scared of dying the key finding from there is that the the mystical experience is linked to therapeutic outcomes the more deeply somebody can have this unitive of experience the more they're able to overcome alcoholism and uh fear of death and that's how these studies and the therapy with the classic psychedelics are kind of meant to encourage people to have this mystical experience but that is not but MDMA does also have um mystical uh potential and so the same questionnaire this is to show you that the comparator doses the low doses really people didn't this is 30 40 milligrams 25 milligrams people didn't really have a mystical experience here um but when we do these active doses it's uh 046 and keep this is the mean quite a few people had above this point and so experiences with MDMA can have this uh mystical aspect to it however what this shows is that there is no correlation between the mystical experience and therapeutic outcomes in terms of reducing PTSD symptoms this is for the comparator doses and then this is more for the full Doses and you can see all these people that are above 6 nine out of around 33 had a full mystical experience with MDMA but that reinforces our idea of this inner healer that we have a non-directive approach whether it's a spiritual experience biographical experience reexperiencing birth or any kind of transpersonal experience will follow and encourage people whatever it is where they go um this is the first study that we did uh this was mostly women survivors of childhood sexual abuse this was the Baseline this was after um the MDMA and then this is the long-term followup which is three and a half years later on average and so 83% of the people u in this study were cured a PTSD after having had it an average of 19 years now not everybody um stays cured we went to the FDA and said there's a few people that have relapsed we'd like to um give them another MDMA session we got permission to do that sorry and then um what you can see is that um they all from here they all went down below this is the cut off for moderate to severe PTSD but one of them got better one of them got slightly worse and one of them got this was a woman who was homeless living in a car so you need social supports but the idea we're trying to say is it's not a miracle cure not everybody's going to be cured forever life keeps coming but that maybe we can give additional MDMA sessions a year later two years later whenever as a kind of a refresher and this suggests that that that will work this got reported in the Washington Post as the peace drug so part of this again is that public opinion and is really important that's what really drove the drug war and drove the suppression of This research the fear inculcated in the public and so we need to do a lot of public education so this was terrific about we had one vet in this initial study and we got it called the the peace drug um this was Oprah um Oprah was now atoning for her holes in the brain image um this was the OM magazine article um in 2011 where she permitted her um uh one of her senior um editors to do a story on MDMA and actually take MDMA in an underground illegal therapeutic setting and report on how positive it was for her in O magazine so this is propaganda in the other way this is one magic pill that cures all your problems but we'll take it um and this is our Swiss study you can see again that we've got significant um decline well um this was only 12 subjects it was 006 almost significant but the effect sizes were similar and then on followup um it continues to get better um this was the crucial study that we're doing right now so the issue is is this going to work with u War rated trauma is this going to work with men the drugs that have been used before for uh zolof and paxel have been approved by the FDA for PTSD they tend to work more in women than in men and in some cases they don't work in the studies in men at all so we wanted to do War related PTSD and for political reasons I said all right well let's just say the study is not just for veterans it's for firefighters and police officers I didn't think we'd get any but the idea was just to say this is for First Responders this is for the mainstream and in the end we did get three firefighters including one who was at 911 in New York and we actually got a police officer who volunteered for this study so I think this idea of the healing potential whether it comes from psychedelics or not when people are suffering enough they're willing to reach out so what we've shown here is um tremendous results um but the big surprise here and I liked when uh Robert th talked about um how you know theories are great but experience is more important so I spent um uh so I got a PhD from Harvard from the Kennedy School of government on the regulation of the medical use of psychedelics and a big part of my dissertation was about how to deal with the double blind problem and it was about doing dose response studies it was beautiful Theory um in practice it turned out to be totally wrong um and which I'm grateful for because now we know more but I I was a little bit sad my theory was wrong but what we found is that the medium dose this is the medium dose the 75 milligrams did the best more than the 125 milligrams and this was the 40 milligrams there there's actually kind of an anti- theapy even though they got a little bit better um people got better just from our therapy the therapy was effective and they got greater declines in the first study than they did with the 40 milligrams and so this 75 milligram group do doing so well what it's telling us is that there's something about the memory reconsolidation processes that is helping people to recategorize traumatic memories when you're feeling safe that MDMA gives you this sense of safety and self-acceptance and then when you review a traumatic experience then you U consolidate the memory it used to be thought that memory was like you take a book off the shelf you read it and you stick it back but it's actually you take this book from different parts of your brain and then you remember it and then you have to recreate reconsolidate the memory and that's explains in some ways how our memory shift over time and if you're feeling safe when you're looking at a traumatic memory what happens is that you actually remember more of the trauma because it's not so emotionally loaded and when you reconsolidate the memory you can recall the incident without the fear because you reconsolidate it when you were feeling peaceful so that's what I think this is telling us with the uh remarkable results at the 75 milligram and so we are now trying to um submit all of this to FDA just to show you this here is uh we studied depression as well depression is co is comorbid with PTSD it also goes down very well and then this is the part of the public relations when it comes to the health and being of those who serve we should leave our politics at the door and not be afraid to follow the data there's now an Evidence base for this MDMA therapy and a plausible story about what may be going on in the brain to account for the effects this was Brigadier General Lorie Sutton the highest ranking psychiatrist in the military she called me out of the blue from a military plane while she was flying got a phone call to me and said what's going on with this MDMA stuff and she was very helpful and now I was a um draft resistor in in Vietnam um anticipating going to jail and so you can imagine how healing it was when I ended up at the Pentagon and this is Michael mofer our lead you weren't supposed to take pictures there so I had to go really quickly um that's Michael mover there and this is Richard Rockefeller um his father is David Rockefeller he was the chairman of the board of advisers of Doctors Without Borders and he was very sympathetic with whole populations being traumatized millions of people refugees what do you do and there's not enough therapists to help them and he started interested in F in MDMA and so he contacted me about six years ago and he said how can I help and I said the toughest thing we're trying to do is deal with the military that they have a tremendous problem last year they spent $6 billion dollar on PTSD disability payments to around 300,000 vets and they have enormous problem and they're started but they were resisting because of the drug war and so Richard and his cousin Senator Jay Rockefeller who was on the Veterans Affairs committee um had discussions with us uh and arranged for us to go into the Pentagon and so now we're doing informal collaborations with the military um we just got a $2 million Grant from the state of Colorado to do a study with marijuana for veterans with PTSD marijuana is more about uh controlling symptoms than it is about a cure but it's still effective for controlling symptoms and and this will be the first study ever so I really wanted to sort of dedicate this part of talk and end my talk by just saying um how much I honor and respect Richard he died in a plane crash uh about a year and a half ago and the night before he died he was with u his father's uh 998th birthday and um he said to his family that he felt like he had um helped us uh his work was complete with helping us with the relationship with the military and and I think that is true I mean there's a lot more still to be done but we we now are on a trajectory to um really integrate psychedelic medicine back into our U Psychiatry and psychology and then hopefully move beyond that to uh broader legalization and then for those that want to have this non-u experience um hopefully we will be in a position where that can be done in a legal context so thank you very [Applause] much [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: llgBlytRttc (https://youtu.be/llgBlytRttc) ===

Joe Rogan podcast. Check it out. The Joe Rogan Experience. Train by day. Joe Rogan podcast by night. All day. Quick. What a turning event. This is so absolutely incredible, Joe. Absolutely. A series of unexpected things have led to this day. You were supposed to do Duncan's podcast and then Duncan and I got on the phone and he was saying, you know, trying to move tickets for the psychedelic event. Yeah. And then uh Duncan said, you know, "Hey man, you can have him on your show." And I said, "Well, why don't you come on, too? It'd be really fun." Then this morning, Duncan has a root canal, like an unexpected emergency root canal. So, so it was just a crazy turn of events, and fortunately, you're here. Yeah. I just came in from Ukraine, actually. Oh, wow. Yeah. What were we doing over there? Training therapists and psychiatrists. Wow. So Ukraine has um enormous amounts of trauma and so what I'm trying to do and is to go to high trauma areas and try to talk about MDMMA assisted therapy and how that could be helpful. What is the legality of it over there? Well, right now it's illegal. They have these terrible laws left over from when Russia was in control and you cannot even do research with schedule one drugs. Wow. Not with psilocybin, not with MDMA. You can't even do research. But over the last couple years, there's been a lot of efforts by their military, by other people to change that because they're aware that they have so much enormous trauma. So, uh, couple months ago, the Ukrainian government put out draft legislation to change the law. And so, the training that we did was for, uh, 55 psychiatrists and therapists from throughout Ukraine. We did it in the western part of Ukraine, Lviv, which is not really a dangerous area, but even while we were there, there were multiple air raid sirens. Um, but then they look at their phone and they see the area that the air raid sirens are supposedly about, and they could be like a 100 miles square, something like that. So, nobody seemed to care. Nobody nobody moved to shelters, and we just ignored these aid sirens and heard nothing. But it's just it was so emotionally moving because we went to the cemetery in Lviv and they have these in cities all over Ukraine and they have something that I've never seen before is that they have just enormous numbers of graves. Terrible. They've lost about 250,000 people. But the graves all have flags for Ukraine, but they have the pictures of the person that's dead. That's the person that's buried there. And I've never seen that anywhere else. is you just it has even even more of an emotional impact because you're actually not just thinking all these people are dead, but you're seeing their pictures and most of them are younger and you know tragically interrupted their lives. Uh a fair number of women and so and they put them in the center of the the cities. They're having to build new grave sites all over and this was next to a really large um old historic cemetery. Yeah. And so it it feels to me like what I'm trying to um do is to really go to where people I think have lots of trauma but don't understand some of these new technologies, meaning psychedelic therapies and hardly new. Well, new to them. So they they've been very much um a conservative society. They don't have legal marijuana. They don't have marijuana. How dare you? Sorry. Um, sorry. Um, yeah. So, it was very moving to to be there for their just the fact that we were there that that people felt that we were willing to come to the country and be there with them even though it's in this more safe part of the country. And so, the the thought that we would uh the next steps would all be philanthropy. So, I should say by that I'm here um representing myself. I'm not talking on behalf of MAPS and I'm not talking on behalf of LICOS, the pharmaceutical company that MAPS uh helped start a while ago. So, I'm just talking for myself personally. But what what what we're trying to do is um really respond to where the trauma is. And next week I'm going to Beirut, which is something I never thought I would be going to, but I've been invited to speak at the American University of Beirut and also a YPO sort of business group. And there's the possibility of potentially at least starting research with MDMMA therapy in in Lebanon as well. Do you ever get frustrated at the lack of progress with legalization? because it seems like so much headway has been made on the the made on the therapeutic front like so many people have anecdotal stories of like a lot of soldiers with Ibagane in particular, MDMA in particular that these people have had incredible experiences turned their life around. I just I I I'm so baffled by the snail's pace of acceptance of these things. Well, I first tried MDMA in 1982. So, we're talking about 43 years ago. And as soon as I experienced it, I thought this has incredible therapeutic potential. It should, it was legal at the time. And when did it become illegal? 1985. And so it had been MDMMA had been a it had been legal but it was sort of quietly used in therapy circles from the um around 1976 to the early 80s and then it started leaking out of these therapy circles and started being used as a party drug ecstasy. Wasn't a lot of that in Dallas? Yes, a lot of it was at the Stark Club in Dallas. Yeah, that is really where uh MDMMA became ecstasy. Lorenzo from the psychedelic salon. I learned all the about that from him. Yeah. Yeah. There's um a fellow named Michael Kane is working on a movie about the Stark Club. Oh wow. There there's an incredible story because Larry Hagman who is the star of Dallas uh frequented this uh nightclub with a bunch of the people from the cast and they had um the police had decided to bust it um because they knew that there was all these experiencing. No, no, that that the they had to they they were all prepared to bust the Star Club that night and unexpectedly J.R. Larry Hugman showed up and they canceled the bus because they thought it'd be too embarrassing to bust him and they busted it another time. He was on CNN once and he was talking about how he's not afraid of death because he had an incredible LSD experience. Yeah. Did you ever see that? I did. Yeah. And and the reason they were like what? Well, he did LSD therapy in the 60s. The reason that I even knew that is my mother-in-law read his autobiography, and he talks about being uh doing LSD therapy in the 60s. And so my mother-in-law said, um uh you might want to try to contact this guy because maybe he's got overlapping interests and he'll he'll help out. And um it took me a couple years to get to him, but eventually I did. Um, I'll tell one funny story is that I got to know him pretty well and I would stay over at his house a bunch of times in Santa Monica and and but um he was also in I Dream of Genie. Oh yeah. So I Dream of Genie is about this genie that comes out of this bottle. He's an astronaut. Um, and a friend of his had made a bong out of the genie bottle and uh they they wanted to market it and and Larry said, "No way." You know, so there was only um you know, two versions of this uh genie bong and I had one of my more humorous moments was smoking pot with Larry Hagman, the genie bong. That's hilarious. It's so funny when a guy plays this like straight laced, greedy kind of psycho on a television show, a soap opera show, and then in real life he's a stoner. Oh, he's incredible. Yeah. Isn't that interesting, though? It's like cuz you would never guess that from the JRU in character. Oh, right. No, he was very much pro- psychedelic and and had multiple experiences during the 60s. And the CNN interview was wild, though, because they were there. I remember watching it going, "Oh, you guys weren't ready for this." is what he said that they're like, "What? You're saying acid's good?" It's like literally the opposite of the Bill Hicks joke. You know the Bill Hicks joke like you never hear like a good drug story. It's always young man on acid thinks he can fly like dies, you know? It's like But that was the one time that a positive drug story from like a beloved star of a beloved show. Yeah. It was the most popular TV show in the world at some points. Yeah. Um but about your question about frustration um yes the answer is yes but it's important not to be um overwhelmed I guess by frustration is just to continue plotting along. Um, we've just passed MAPS's 39th anniversary. Um, April 8th. Um, I had, um, 1986 is when I started MAPS. And when I started MAPS, I didn't really know that it would ever succeed, that we would ever make MDMA into medicine. It was the height of Nancy Reagan and Just Say No and the escalation of the drug war, the worst times. And I realized that it was worth doing working towards bringing psychedelics forward whether it worked or not. And that's what really gave me the um the mindset to not be overwhelmed by the frustration by how um many obstacles there's been because I always had this feeling that um we need this kind of healing. we need this access to these experiences and it's been a tragic when we think about the number of uh veteran suicides for example that are happening every year and if the Drug Enforcement Administration when they made MDMMA illegal in 1985 they did that on an emergency basis we were in the middle of a lawsuit against the DEA um what's called an administrative law judge lawsuit and we were challenging this uh arguments for making it um into a schedule one drug. And we actually won the case. Wow. The the judge said it should be schedule three, which means it should be available as a medicine, but it should be um illegal otherwise for recreational use. But administrative law judges only give advice to the agencies that they're working in. They don't compel. You have to get out of that into the civil courts. So the judge said schedule three and um the Drug Enforcement Administration said no way, we're not going to do that. And their rationale was so wrong. So we sued them in the appeals court. What they said initially was that only the FDA could make a drug into a medicine, not the DEA. But the law was clear that it could be the attorney general could do that. So the appeals court when they um review agency's decisions, they don't tell them what to do. They say, "You did something wrong. now rethink it. So then the DEA said, "Okay, we're going to rethink it." And then they came up with a new reason why they were against it. And this was this eight-part standard that was essentially the same as the FDA. So then we sued them again the second time. And uh we won again in the appeals courts. And so they they went back to the DEA and said, "You have to come up with another rationale. This one doesn't work either." Oh my god. And then they came up with a five-part standard that was sufficiently different but still had phase three studies. So it's essentially the same as FDA approval. And finally the courts upheld that and that's during this process it was clear to me that the DEA would not do anything to make this available as a medicine that we would have to go through the FDA and that's where MAPS began as a nonprofit psychedelic pharmaceutical company focused entirely on donations and the intention was to turn it into a generic drug that because MDMMA had been invented by Merc in 1912. It was in the public domain. It was used as a therapy drug before I even knew about it. And then it turned out that the emergency scheduling that DEA did in 1985 was itself um illegal. It turned out that the Congress had given um the attorney general the power to emergency schedule drugs, but the attorney general had never subdelegated that power down to the DEA. So, they didn't have the authority to do that. So the people that got busted in the first year were all let go once their lawyers figured this out. So wow. So the first move to criminalize MDMA was a crime, you could say. Wow. And but we're stuck. And so when we think about if MDMA had not been criminalized, how many people's lives would have been saved? How many people would have been able to um benefit from psychedelics? because one of the things that we're going to be talking about at the psychedelic science 2025 conference uh the 16th to the 20th in June in Denver we have over um 500 speakers we had over 1500 applications there's an enormous amount of research taking place with psychedelics with psilocybin with ibeane with MDMA with 5 DMT with a whole host and the healing potential of these are incredible and yet they've been um kept away from people by these prohibitionist laws. And so it's it's enormously frustrating and tragic. And yet if we let that overwhelm us, then uh we're not going to work as hard to make it happen. So I've had to learn how to deal with that frustration. Well, it's just a gross distortion of the legal system. You know, there's no reason why they should be illegal. As long as as long as you have whiskey and you can get aderall easily on a prescription like and oxycodone is readily prescribed like this is crazy. Well, it's counterproductive. Yes. It's not even, you know, like stopping a lot of the benefits. It's actually creating more harms. Um, just as one example, my father was a pediatrician. He's no longer alive, but he worked on the first study with crack babies. He and his partners did the pediatric evaluation. And you remember this in the 80s. This idea was that there's going to be this whole generation of super predators and these women that were pregnant with crack were having uh babies that were addicted and they were going to be um mentally deficient and prone to violence and this whole scenario that Reagan amplified, right? And what my father and his partners found out was that um that really these kids could recover, that they could do better. um that it was mostly malnutrition, poverty. It's not like fetal alcohol syndrome, that it was really not this direct connection between the crack cocaine and the problems with these kids. But what he found was that the women that were pregnant and were addicted were driven away from [ __ ] phone is dinging again, man. Just put it on do not disturb. Yeah, let me just turn it off. all you boomers and your goddamn gadgets. Boomers. Yeah. Um but he found that these women were um dissuaded from seeking treatment. Why? Because they were worried that they would have their babies taken away from them because they were worried they were going to go to jail. So the drug war is counterproductive in that the people that need the help the most are driven away from seeking it because of the stigma and shame and criminality. But then they screw up sometimes and do like what Portland did where they just go everybody just do whatever you want. And then unfortunately you've already set a culture where you've allowed people to do fentinel in the street and meth and whatever the else they want and then then the laws pass where you decriminalize everything. It's sort of it's legal free-for-all and then unfortunately you have chaos and then they pulled back the law because it was just too much. People were going there just so they could get high. Well that's the important point what you just said. people were going there. So what that means is that um and we saw this in Zurich. So there was a place in Zurich uh multiple decades ago called Needle Park where they decided to provide um access to health care, access to safe injection sites, things like this for heroin addicts and others in Zurich. And it was working uh because when you treat people as humans like that, they will often seek other treatment. Um and then if they're not necessarily criminals, but then um people come from all over and overwhelm the capacity because it's this one humane site and then it became an open air drug market. Just just people from all over Europe started coming and then they had the backlash. Yeah. So I think it's something somewhat similar in in Portland where you try some of these things on a local basis but then it attracts people from all over and then it turns into the opposite of what they'd hoped. Right. Yeah. And it's just I just think also they had gone through the whole defund the police thing. So there's this they were just overwhelmed by cases and the Portland just out of [ __ ] out of control. It was a lovely place a few years ago. Just a lovely place. 10 years ago Portland was amazing. It's all a bunch of sweethearts and hippies. They were like so calm and they got something happened and people got radicalized and then the tents the people the camping on the street once that happened and you tolerated people just putting tents up in the middle of the city. It's like can't don't ignore these people like either help them out or tell them they have to move or do something. You can't just clog up your city with mentally ill drug addicts who are intense. That's crazy. It is. And it it's hard to have these local solutions because it it attracts those people. Exactly. So it people probably got on trains to go to Portland and get high. They did did. So so these kind of solutions I think people take the wrong idea from them that the solution itself was the wrong idea but I think it's when you do it on a local basis like that and not have it widely distributed. So basically the idea is that you have people that have uh problems with substance abuse of all kinds. Uh we don't criminalize um people who are alcoholics. They can go to AA, they can go to other things. They're not um stigmatized and they're not worried that they're going to be arrested, right? And yet they can go for help and you have a lot of people that actually do that. Yeah. Um and I think that's the kind of humane approach. But that's where we should be leaning as a society. That's a healthy intelligent society. And also we should be paying attention to the people that report great benefits. Like there's just too many. Well, luckily we have guys like Rick P. Rick Perry and Rick Perry who was the Republican governor of Texas is now in really in full support of this Ibegan initiative. It's wonderful. Yes. Well, Rick Perry will be speaking at the conference. Fantastic. As will Brian Hubard. So Brian too. The work that you did to have uh Rick Perry and Brian Huard on your show and how much that brought attention to the Ibeane possibilities was incredible. Well, it's my feeling is if a guy like Rick Perry, who's this like straight nose conservative, you know, right-wing kind of a guy, if he can open up his eyes to that and open up his heart to that, it's available for everybody. And there's this very binary position that people take in regards to their their thoughts on psychedelics. It's either it's for losers and people that want to escape reality or o or you know if you're on the side of the people that have experienced it, you don't get any of that, which is what which is so weird for me. So the the people that think that it's for losers and it's all just a bunch of people just trying to escape reality and they're lazy and they're none of those people saying that have ever done it. So, if you can get just a few of them to do it and tell their friends, you know, if we had like legitimate therapy centers because everybody needs a little help. I'm not saying you need to get off heroin, you know, like I'm not saying you're you're coming back from Afghanistan. I'm not saying anything crazy help, but like everybody could use just a little therapeutic help to give you a fresh perspective. And I think if that was available to a lot of people that are just generally depressed, I think we could change the tone of the country. I really do because one of the things that bums me out the most about especially the interactions that people have on social media is like it's all negative. There's it's all negative. You're you're you're living in these rare moments. You have a a a finite amount of time. A hundred years is so quick. It goes by so fast and you're wasting it, yelling at people on Twitter. For what? For what? Like commenting on things all day long in anger and disgust and look where this country is. Like what are you talking about? Everyone's perspective needs a little help. Needs a little pickme up. Just a little something to go, you know? I think we're okay. I think we're going to be okay. I think that there are so many possible benefits from having psychedelic clinics all over. All over. Yeah. I mean, we're talking about right now there's several thousand ketamine clinics, but one of the um issues with ketamine clinics is that many of them provide um ketamine without therapy. Whoops. So, I I Yeah, I met a lot of those people. Yeah. Yes. So I think the key point is that when we talk about psychedelics, when we talk about the clinics, it's not here take this pill, right? It's here take this pill in a therapeutic context with therapists there to help you process the emotions with an expert, someone who's experienced it themselves who can help you. Yeah. And then with the therapy afterwards, which we call the integration process. So it's not just the experience itself, it's the preparation to be open to whatever happens. It's the experience. And then I I just was the other day with a woman Gul Dolan who is a neuroscientist and what she's talked about and what she's discovered is that psychedelics are these rare substances that have the open up what they call the critical periods. So it's neuroplasticity. It's this ability to rewire your brain that stays for sometimes weeks or longer. With ibain it can be several months after you have the experience. So that the therapy that happens afterwards, the work that you do to integrate it has special potential to make long-term changes in your behavior, in your brain circuitry. And so psychedelics are unique among substances. People are trying to develop non-csychedelic psychedelics that do have this neuroplasticity property, but they open up this potential for long-term change if you do the therapy afterwards. If you focus on trying to what the insights that you had during the experience and then try to make them into permanent behavior patterns. That's really fascinating. It's also so typically human that we try to develop non-csychedelic versions of the same thing. Like we could we could do better than nature. Yeah. God was on to something but you know he had an early plan. It wasn't really fleshed out yet. Right. Well, one one of the things that that was really um impactful for Rick Perry was uh Morgan Latrell who's now a member of Congress, right? And so um Morgan had uh very terrible uh trauma from his military service and eventually was able to um experience I gain and from that he was able to um get a lot better and it there's a a researcher Nolan Williams who will also be at the conference who's done work with Ibeane and a lot of the Navy Seals and others that have gone down to Mexico and he's done studies of their brains um with traumatic brain injury and have shown before and after that that some of them actually do have this uh recovery from traumatic brain injury. Yeah, it's pretty phenomenal. It's it's also helps people with other neurological disorders like it's help people with Parkinson's, right? Yes. And that is where it could make sense in certain ways to have non-csychedic psychedelics, right? But also, why not if I gain work? Well, get them on that you already have Parkinson's. What are you scared? Well, and then Yeah. And then you get the insights though as well. Yes. So, so but there's people that might not want that. It's it's difficult. It can be. But why do they not want it? They don't want it because of propaganda, you know, they don't want it because someone, you know, there's the stories of like uh Sid Barrett from Pink Floyd or, you know what I mean? Like the stories of people losing their mind. That's what people are terrified of. I think with some people, honestly, that's a valid point. Now that you're saying that, there's a bunch of people that are like very psychologically vulnerable and maybe a profound psychedelic experience wouldn't be m it wouldn't be it wouldn't be tenable. They wouldn't be able to handle it. You know, that that's a that's possible. There's a bunch of people that have they they're in a bad state. Maybe they're on a ton of medication just keeping them stable. They can't do psychedelics. Maybe them a non-csychedelic version of that that rewired their brain would be beneficial now that I think about it. Yeah, there there is actually a a situation with cluster headaches. So cluster headaches are like um suicide headaches. They're worse than migraines and there was uh this is now back around 2003. A bunch of the people who had cluster headaches. One of them went to a a party did mushrooms and found that it postponed the cycle and would interrupt the cycle of these cluster headaches which are terrible. And so they contacted me and they for formed this group called Clusterbusters. And they said, "We don't want to be criminals anymore. We would like to study this. Can you help us study this?" And I um live in Boston right next to MLAN Hospital, which is a part of Harvard Medical School. And I approached them and I said, "Would you want to study these people with um cluster headaches?" And they said, "Sure, this is really interesting." So they brought in all these people and checked their medical records and and determined that this was really the case that that um psilocybin and LSD blocked u cluster headache cycle and and postpone the next cycle. And so we did all this research and then um the next step would have been to actually give LSD or psilocybin to people with cluster headaches. And the people at Harvard like, "Oh, Timothy Liry, he was here. We don't want to do this." You know, damn it, MK Ultra. All of that. They ruined it for everybody. Uh, well, we're trying to get over that, but they did. And um, but then the people at Harvard said, "Well, we will do this LSD or psilocybin, but only if it's the last resort, only if everything else fails." So the scientists um Torson Paci and John Halpern um decided that they would use a non-csychedelic version of LSD called Brmo LSD. And the plan was that they would give this bromo LSD to a bunch of people with cluster headaches. It would not work. And then they would come back and say, "Hey, we we need to do this LSD and psilocybin research." So I said, "Okay, that makes sense. We have no idea why LSD or psilocybin works, but it's probably connected to the psychedelic properties of it. Mh. And so they did this study at Hanover University in Germany and I I kept waiting for the results and waiting for the results and they wouldn't I I heard nothing and then after months they finally said we didn't want to tell you but the bromemod works even better oh no than the LSD and the psilocybin because with LSD you know it's effective in micrograms you know you for psilocybin you take 25 milligrams for a major major trip but with bromemod you can give large amounts of it because you're not getting Oh, and whatever it does, it's still a mystery what it does in the brain, but it works better. You just flood the brain. So, that's actually a good example of a non-csychedelic psychedelic for a physiological problem that uh could make sense as a medicine. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. It makes a lot of sense with the dose especially. Yeah. But that's great though. At least that way like we found something out. Yeah. Yeah. And actually when I you when they finally told me that it worked and that they didn't want to tell me, I said, you know, I'm interested in psychedelic therapy. If I'm also what's best for patients, so that if this bromelstd is best for patients, that's great. I'm it's not upsetting me at all because we're talking about it anyway for a physiological thing and I'm interested in the therapy part of it. And so unfortunately, talk about being frustrating. Um Carrie Turnbull is a a philanthropist and he's trying to make brolasty into a medicine, but he's um been unable to raise all the funds that he needs to do that. And so this was a a treatment for a terrible disorder that was identified over about 20 years ago and it's still not been made into a medicine. God damn. And so those are the things that are frustrating because it's not even psychedelic, right? That's crazy. You know, it's just too close to psychedelic. Yeah. It's too related by, you know, so by association. Yeah. So Morgan Drell was a big example to educate uh Rick Perry. Morgan will be at the conference. Uh Congressman Jack Berg Bergman, who's leading an effort um in Washington to have a group that's trying to um collect a lot of support, bipartisan support to make psychedelics into medicines, will be there. The military aspect of it is very important because they're generally very right-wing guys. Yeah. And and women, you know, like they serve their country. They, you know, they're hard-nosed, disciplined people. Yeah. If they can't experience it, they can realize, you know, I've always said that like I try to act as a bridge between the meattheads and the ptheads. You are a good bridge for them. I'm the bridge. Here I am. I'm Oh, you know what Timothy Liry said, which is phenomenal. And and tell me if this is true for you, okay? He said, "If you want to be a bridge, you have to get used to being stepped on." Oh, that's for sure. Yeah, I'm pretty used to being stepped on. Yeah, but I mean, not necessarily for those positions because uh the idea of pot and uh a lot of these other things is that it makes you lazy. And you'd have a really hard time convincing anybody that I'm lazy. That's very hard. I'm pretty disciplined. I don't believe that's the case. I don't think it's just I I don't think they're mutually exclusive. like you have to have either discipline or be able to enjoy expanding your consciousness. I I think in fact it enhances your perspective which enhances your the understanding of the value of discipline and hard work and of honesty and of like doing things the right way. Like you do things the right way, you genu genuinely feel better. And if you ever have trips like whatever even in the century deprivation tank like sober getting in there the they're better when you live the right way. You don't have any demons or as many you don't have any regrets. You don't have think do the right thing. It's could be a good person like it's it's not that hard to do. And the fact that it's been conflated with laziness and narrwells and all that stuff like that's nonsense. Some of the most ambitious people I know smoke weed. Some of the most hardworking, interesting, creative people I know smoke weed. They enjoy it. Well, one of the best examples is Carl Sean. Yes. One of the best examples. And he he had to hide that though for decades because he was worried he would lose his security clearances. I was trying to tell that to someone who was a scientist once off air and they didn't believe me. I'm like, how do you not know? How do you not know Carl Sean is was a huge pot smoker? Right. Well, Lester Ginspoon was the doctor at Harvard Medical School who was one of my mentors and he was close personal friends with Carl Sean and Lester was an expert on medical marijuana and he had a book about experiences with marijuana. Carl Sean had to tell his story under a pseudonym. Wow. Because he didn't really want to be known for that. But well, it's a different time period and that's why guys like him were so brave, you know, just to talk about it at all. You could risk everything. He was the guy explaining science and astronomy to everybody and explaining the cosmos. We found out that guy's a stoner. Like, oh, it's all out the window now. Oh, yeah. And his wife, um, Andrean was on the board of directors, uh, of the normal to legalize marijuana, national organization for the reform of marijuana laws. It's just it's very frustrating for me because when I was a young man um I remember thinking that eventually all this will be worked out and you know by the time I'm 35 or something like that there won't be any more drug laws about things that are beneficial. I really did believe that I now I'm 57. I'm like oh my god it's not changing. Oh my god it's it's this shit's taken forever. It's been decades of everyone knowing decades of the internet. Before the internet, you could kind of ch well propaganda was very effective. You know, the reef madness stuff and all that craziness that they pumped into people's heads. Like that was the 1930s, man. And that's still effective today. There's still people today that believe all that stuff. Well, you just shared with me before we started talking about the the Texas law that's trying to If you could maybe share a bit about that. Um, Ken Paxton, who I've met, I like him. Very nice guy. Uh, I I don't know why he did this, but Austin had decriminalized marijuana. So, apparently the attorney general's office sued Austin. And what is the ruling on that? I don't know if they even have acted on this or if they're going to appeal or what it is, but like here's the thing about something that's not fully legal. And I've talked about this before, so I apologize to anybody's heard this. John Norris, who's a friend of mine, who's been on the podcast, who was a game warden in California. And he found a diverted stream and they were trying to figure out what's going on. They figured some farmer [ __ ] up and like what's going on here? And like fish were dead. And so he's a game warden. So they have to track down what happened with this stream. Finds this huge grow up in the middle of the national forest run by the cartel. And then his entire operation in the decad's future becomes a tactical force with bulletproof vests and dogs and guns fighting the cartel in the forest in national forest because they were growing it all in America and then just selling it. like 90% I believe he said 90% of the marijuana that was sold in states where it's illegal was coming from California and they were using very dangerous pesticides and herbicides stuff that's completely illegal if uh you were growing it naturally if you were grow growing it normally and because it's illegal you have organized crime that's providing it to people like it if it was legal we could only buy it from like you buy your [ __ ] groceries you buy organic fruit, right? You buy organic vegetables. You'd buy organic marijuana. You would know the people who are growing it. You could meet the farmers just like you can meet people from white oak pastures. You'd meet people from [ __ ] Happy Green Farm. And you would know where you're getting your stuff. You know, there's no fentinel in it, which is apparently they're talking about that now. Yeah. You're not helping anybody. You're only hurting people. Now, if your goal is just to hurt as many people as possible, yeah, make more laws. Yeah. Keep making keep locking people up. lock people up for for things that don't hurt anybody, even themselves. Well, the other part of it is is the tax money. Yes. Too. when you're letting all this money go to the uh underground to the cartels to the criminal gangs, you're alternatively you could have it as taxes and it could make it easier on the rest of us on I could see as an argument if you were the attorney general and you said you are propping up organized crime by allowing it to be decriminalized and the people that are growing it and selling it in Austin or the people that have it in Austin are all committing crime so they're probably cartel people or I could see that argument kind of. But you know what the [ __ ] solution to that is? Make it legal. This is dumb. We can just buy whiskey anywhere, which I love. Nothing wrong with it. But you can go buy I have a bar, you know? I I'm a drug dealer. Literally, I'm a drug dealer. I have a bar. I own a bar. I sell drugs. Alcohol is a [ __ ] drug. It's just a sanctioned legal drug that we pay taxes for. And we, you know, the alcohol commission has to check, make sure we're doing everything right. But it's drugs. And it's way more dangerous. And prohibition of alcohol actually in the in the 20s led to organized crime. Yes. In America. Yes. Alapone. All that stuff. Propped up organized. What also led to NASCAR too, though. You know, pretty cool. They figured out how to soup up some cars to get away from the the cops, right? That's what NASCAR came from. Did you know that? Yeah. Yeah. It's amazing. But it's so dumb. It's so like and everyone who enjoys a little alcohol with a a you know drink at a social gathering, there's nothing wrong with that. There's nothing wrong with that. Let people do what the [ __ ] they want to do. We're all going to die someday. And if people are having good or bad experiences on any of these substances, it's up to them to manage their experiences. Like I don't get along with alcohol. I won't drink alcohol. I don't get along with marijuana. I don't want to try. Okay, good. That's okay. It's all fine. But like let people who enjoy it have it. It's dumb. Well, this idea that we're all going to die one day, one of the most important uses of psychedelics is to help people at the end of life who are scared of dying, right? And also for paliotative care. So there's a lot of research that's been done with people with life-threatening illnesses who are anxious about dying, right? And have received either MDMA or psilocybin or LSD in the 60s. Yeah. So that the kind of big fears that we have about illness and death, when people are not able to process those fears, it just gets worse and worse. I wonder how many people Larry Hagman turned on. Uh, you know what I mean? That day on CNN, there's probably millions of people watching Larry Hagman saying, you know, I'm not afraid of death because I had an LSD experience and I realized that it's all just connected. Yeah. Well, if it wasn't for my mother-in-law reading his book, wild, you know, and he became a big supporter of maps and and he spoke out in public, that those are the kind of dialogues that change people's minds. Yeah. Um, you know, there's been some um we have a lot of I live in Massachusetts where marijuana is legal. Marijuana is legal in California and Colorado and all these states. They're doing really well economically. Oh, it's a huge tax boom, especially like Colorado had the craziest taxes. when is it like 39% or something at one point and everybody's like okay because it's first of all economically like if you want to go out for a night drinking that's going to cost you a couple hundred bucks you know buying a round of drinks for your friends round drinks here there it's you a couple hundred worth of marijuana you're stoned for a month like you're just stoned forever and if you have to pay 39% tax like okay like I hope it fixes streets like I'll give you my tax money I'm not scared of paying t I want to pay taxes if you were doing good stuff with it. Is it helping pay for the schools? Great. Let's get great schools and a lot of people smoking weed legally, but not kids. You know, that's the other thing. Like, we need education for children to let them know like it's not good to alter your state of consciousness, especially on a regular basis. When you're young, there's some developmental issues that come along with abuse. Well, this is with abuse for sure. Abuse. Abuse. Definitely. For sure. One of the things that's um pretty interesting is look at the cultures that have successfully integrated psychedelics like for example the Iwasa churches that are in Brazil or the Native American church that uses peyote often for Native Americans that have problems with alcohol. I was out on a Navajo reservation. This is about 20 years ago and it was for a a Native American p church peyote ceremony and one of the Navajo men brought his nine-year-old son to take peyote and spend the night with us. Whoa. And peyote is masculine, right? Peyote is masculine. Yeah. And um uh Wuma is from San Pedro. Cactus is also that has masculine in it. But this nine-year-old did not take the same amount of peyote as the rest of us, but he took more appropriate for his body weight. And it's within a cultural context, within a family context, within a religious supportive context, these cultures tend not to have age limits. Right? So I think when you talk about the developmental problems that come from abuse, that's totally the case. But when you talk about occasional use for inspiration, um particularly when in a ceremonial setting, in a ceremonial setting, which has been for centuries and centuries, they've refined it. There's no neurological damage that comes to your brain from masculine, right? This ceremonial settings are very important. And I used to think it was foolishness. I think ceremony is like get the [ __ ] out of here with your ceremony. I was cynical, you know, but I think that in even rights of passages like into adulthood, I used to think that was foolish, too. But then I realized like, wow, a lot of people have a hard time determining if that they're an adult and they stay kind of infantile for their entire life. especially someone that's like really coddled by their parents and over overprotected helicopter parents. You never develop the ability to be solitary and just to be out there on on your own and autonomous and things that are important should be treated with respect and that's where I think ceremony comes in. Yeah. One of the things that I think has led to my um interest in lifetime use of psychedelics was been the failure of my bar mitzvah to to actually turn me into a man. Oh, that's hilarious. Because I'm the old You thought you're going to be a man. That's it. I'm going to be a man. I was I wanted to avoid all the awkwardness of adolescence. I'm the oldest of four kids. Um so I had no older siblings to tell me. And we did this right of passage and it's been used for thousands of years. And I just had this somehow this idea that there would be some um visitation from God of some way that I would be one thing the morning of my bar mitzvah and I would be something different the next morning. And I I remember waking up in bed uh the next morning after my bar mitzvah and I'm like I'm the same. This particular right of passage didn't work. And and you know you're 13, you're not so smart. And I was like well you know God must be busy. A lot of people got got bar mitzvah if you know it's like Christmas on your own. Eventually God's gonna get to me. Yeah. And so every day for a week I would wake up and think is today the day. Am I different? Oh wow. Nothing happened. And then finally another week and another bar mitzvah Saturday came along and I realized that if I was on a list I have now been dropped off the list completely because there's all these new people bar mitzvah. and and the rights of passage that we do have I believe probably worked in the past for a lot of people and they did have this demaration between different ages. People didn't used to live that long either. So 13 was kind of a a transition point, right? But it was when I was 17 um almost 18 that I first did LSD and my one of my very first thoughts was this is what my bar mitzvah should have been because you know you're like who am I right where do I fit in I'm I'm sort of my ego sense is dissolving a bit from LSD I'm connected to something bigger and larger than myself right I thought this is the the courage the test of courage this is the test of manhood. This is something that is a part of a right of passage. So for me, the psychedelics became the right of passage when the religious right of passage didn't have the same impact as I had hoped it would. That's fascinating. That's fascinating. It's interesting too that you talk about not restricting it for young people and I just I thought about like wine in Europe because kids in Europe, particularly kids in Italy, they don't have the drinking problem that kids have in America. When high school kids in America get a hold of alcohol, they get drunk and ridiculous and like cuz they're doing something naughty. Yeah. But kids are normalized to the just regular consumption of glass of wine with dinner. It's normal. Well, and then in the US where when kids do experiment because they're worried about being caught with things, they tend to not use wine, but they tend to use stronger drinks, right? So they they call that sort of the iron law of prohibition that when you prohibit something, it moves more and more to more concentrated, more powerful forms of that drug, hence fentanyl. Yeah. Yeah. Or even cocaine when if you could have cocaine. I mean, Andy While has uh been promoting for decades and decades this idea of cocaine. Yeah, I had that once. What was the shut the [ __ ] up? I couldn't shut up. I was like, "Oh my god, thank God I've never done cocaine." I was telling my friend Doug, I was like, "I don't think I could shut up." But it wasn't anything crazy. Um I think that um chewing the leaves is supposed to be like super beneficial and actually even healthier than coffee. Yeah, there there's a lot of um nutrition in the leaves. Does it help suck your teeth up though? Well, if you do anything too much, it can. But it's something. You sound like an apologist. You sound like Well, well, I think it's this idea that um appropriate use. Well, Paracelis is the uh um one of the early physicians and he said the difference between a medicine and a poison is dose, right? Well, yeah, salt will kill you. You know, eat a pound of salt, see what happens. Water will kill you. Yeah. I mean, people drink too much water. Yeah. Yeah. Hyponitriia, you dilute your I remember a lady died because she was trying to win a PlayStation for a kid in a morning radio show. She was trying to drink the most water. Crazy. Yeah. Like no. Who knew? I guess no one knew then, but people are pretty aware now because of frat parties like you know hazing. They've had kids do that. Yeah. That's one of the things that nuts die from water has been happening in terms of the raves and ecstasy use. So that occasionally people will overheat and die from MDMA where you dance all night, you don't drink adequate fluid and you can get hyperothermia and there are some cases. So that's one of the the dangers of ecstasy use outside of therapeutic context. And so people have heard, okay, now I need to drink fluids in order to not overheat. And there have been cases of people that have died from drinking too much water. Well, I can counter that because there's a bunch of people that have died from too much exercise. There's something called rabdtonomiosis that people get when you over exercise where you literally your protein starts breaking down, your kidneys can't process it. You start peeing brown and it can be totally deadly. You can push yourself too hard and die from exercise too. Yeah. How many people every year die of rabdo? Google that cuz I know it's it's very common in the CrossFit world because people are competitive with exercise which is not necessarily the great like a lot of people I know that are trainers do not like the concept of CrossFit because it's doing exercises that are just supposed to strengthen your body and condition your body but doing them in a competition setting where it's like unlimited amount of repetitions as many as you can get in you know x amount of time or you know and then they have these games where people play where they might not be conditioned enough to sustain the workload that they're putting forth and then they get rabdo and it's fairly common like I know multiple people that have had rabdo. Wow. Yeah. How many people die? So it's it doesn't say that but it says there's 26,000 cases reported annually and about 5% of those lead to mortality. 5 to 20%. That's a lot. It's a lot of people that that's probably more than people drink water and die. I guarantee that's more. I bet drinking water so much water you die is probably fairly rare, but I think that Rabdo stuff is super dangerous. Yeah, you're reminding me of something funny. Um, David Nut was the um drug policy adviser for the British government and he did a ranking of the dangers of all these different drugs. And what he found was that the the psychedelics were at the very low end of the dangers. And so he talked about how horseback riding was more dangerous than uh ecstasy. Oh yeah, it's super dangerous, man. People fall and break things all the time. Yeah. And so he got fired for that because for because he was telling the truth. He was making people love horseback riding in England. Oh, that's crazy. So what Maps did is that we um he got fired for telling the truth. Well, he was the drug policy adviser saying things that people did not want to hear. Maybe he should have like got his job description down before he started yapping. Like what am I trying to do here for real? Like are we really you really want to know my opinion or do I have an an angle that I'm supposed to be headed towards? Can you guide me? Yeah. So we did something similar. We looked at um cheerleading. Oh yeah. And we looked at the emergency room visits on a per um person visit for the the percentage of people that do cheerleading that go to the emergency room versus the percentage of people that do ecstasy. And cheerleading is more dangerous. Oh, yeah. They fly through the air, man. Yeah. Yeah. They bang heads sometimes. Yeah. Yeah. So, we had a a poster that we made. It said, "Uh, give me an E." Oh, god. That's so silly. But here's the thing. It's like we allow multiple dangerous things. Like horseback riding is one thing. How about bull riding? Totally legal. Super dangerous. Like super duper dangerous. I mean, we allow BMX riding. You should of course allow that. Look, I'm a martial artist. Like, I know how many people have been who have accidentally died doing martial arts. A ton. It's real. You know, there's a ton of activities that people enjoy. Skydiving. They enjoy bungee jumping. Legal. All legal. Amusement parks legal. Yeah. Well, I think that in those circumstances, people believe that there's benefits that outweigh the risk. amusement parks that well people enjoy them. Oh, people enjoy psyched dogs. Yeah. But I think that's the the critical issue is that people have got as you started out by saying, you know, people think that if you take these drugs, there's no benefits. You're hallucinating. You're running away from reality. You're not paying attention to what's really going on. You're making yourself more vulnerable. You're going to fly out a window and think you can fly. Well, it's just like we need a a comprehensive addressing of the the actual real landscape of what these things are, what the benefits are, and just this addressing of the impact of propaganda, the the sweeping schedule one act of 1970, right? Um the the whole William Randph Hurst connection to marijuana illegalization, which was right after alcohol prohibition. So they were looking to put these agents back out into the field. All that needs to be like comprehensively explained to the American public to reinform people because I think people are they're they're they have the general population that doesn't listen to podcasts like this and doesn't get online and s these things. You have these conceptions that are entirely formed by propaganda and they're they're not based on on real anecdotal experiences, real science, real data. And the re and also the the problem with that too is there's real side effects of some of these things. Those need to be understood. How do you understand them? Well, you have to make them legal and do tests and studies and maybe people have gene expressions that, you know, maybe they shouldn't be doing this thing, but they can do that thing, you know. Yeah. I think this idea that um for me how do we break through the wall of propaganda right and for me the idea has been we go to where the suffering is we go to where the science is and we try to make things first into medicines and I think that's where people are willing to listen when you have all this propaganda and all these fears it has to be that there's some corresponding benefit that's overwhelms your your sense of fear that that you're willing to take a look and that's where you go to where the suffering is and that's where with post-traumatic stress disorder. Yes. I think one of the things that we've been able to do remarkably is with psychedelics, they're one of the few things that are out of the culture wars these days. There's bipartisan support for psychedelic research and it's because we went to where a lot of the suffering was sympathetic patients. Um most of the people in our studies are are women survivors of sexual abuse. Most of the people with PTSD are women, but most of the media attention goes to the veterans and people put veterans on a pedestal. And if so many of them, you know, there's different estimates, but it's, you know, 18 22 or more per day commit suicide and you can end up um avoiding a lot of that by helping them process the the traumas that they experience. And again, it's like we were talking about before. It's the bridge. Yeah. That's the real bridge. The bridge is these, you know, hard-nosed right-wing guys who have these experiences, become better parents, become better friends, just like reintegrate into society, make peace with the past. It's it's totally possible. And that these tools are being so underutilized to so many vulnerable and needy people. So many people just [ __ ] need some help. Yeah. One of the speakers at the psychedelic science conference is Sharief Elnah, who was the under secretary of the VA. Wow. and he's uh become very uh passionate about what he's seen from those people that have done um the veterans that have done MDMMA assisted therapy inside the Veterans Administration. But it took MAPS 25 years starting in um 1995. We're offering money to the VA to do MDMMA research until 2021 when the first veteran received MDMA inside the VA from VA therapists. Wow. So talk about frustration. Think about the number of people that have committed suicide from when we started offering to the VA to do it. But it was the propaganda. It was the stigma that made it so that they were not willing to do it. What's most amazing today is that Congress gave $10 million to the Department of Defense for MDMA assisted therapy research in active duty soldiers. Oh wow. So there's a $4.9 million grant that went to Dr. Aaron Wolf Gang at Walter Reed and it's going to be giving MDMA assisted therapy. There's another $4.9 million grant that went to a group called um Strongstar that's in San Antonio here in Texas elsewhere and they're connected with Emory University and so they're going to combine MDMA with a therapy called prolonged exposure where you talk about the trauma over and over but that's very ret-raumatizing. There was a study that the Veterans Administration did that took him about six years. It was 916 veterans and it compared two therapies that they use, both non-drug therapies for treating PTSD. One was called prolonged exposure. The other was cognitive processing therapy. And what they showed is that around half the people are in the study drop out because the therapy itself is retraumatizing. Oh god. Because you're just forced to go over the trauma, over the trauma over and over. And that's supposed to desensitize you. And if you can stay in it, it can be helpful. but it retraumatizes so many people. So what we've shown is working with the MDMA with the veterans is that they're able to process the trauma that the the fear reduction from the MDMMA reducing activity in the amydala the the fear processing part of our brain that you can once you can approach these things that have felt like will tear you apart that that they'll be overwhelming you can't really go away from them but they never really leave either that then you can process it. So this uh study that will be done here in Texas with active duty soldiers again is going to be a combination of MDMA with prolonged exposure. The Walter Reed study is um combining MDMA with what they call acceptance and commitment therapy different kind of approaches. Um how do they decide which approach? Well, this is going to be research trying to different different kinds going to be do multiple ones and just see what's the most effective. Yeah. Yeah. And and I think that um MAPS has started uh funding studies combining MDMA with cognitive uh processing therapy as well. But the one that I think is the most u potentially the most valuable is called cognitive behavioral conjoin therapy. Conjoin means couples or diads. And so what happens is the designated patient, the veteran with PTSD is where the attention is focused. But when they have PTSD, it affects their families. that affects their partners. And so, cognitive behavioral conjoin therapy was developed by this woman, Candace Monson, at the Boston VA. And that's where they bring in the partner as well as the veteran and they both get therapy. And so, back in 2014 when finally um I was working with Richard Rockefeller and his cousin, Senator J. Rockefeller who was on the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee and they finally convinced the FDA, I mean the VA to be willing to let MAPS support research with MDMA. They said that they would not let it uh they wouldn't refer veterans. They couldn't do it inside the VA. We had to pay for it. But that the first thing they wanted us to do was combine MDMA with cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy where both people now get MDMA. And the results were better than anything they've ever got before in studying this therapy, both in reduction of PTSD, but also in strength of the relationship. Do they combine it with 5HTP or anything like that to sort of bring back your levels? Um, the answer is no. Um, people do use 5HTP and it can be helpful. But can you explain what that does? Yeah. So 5HTP is your precursor for serotonin. So when we started research with the FDA, this was now 1992, the very first time that they permitted MDMA research was uh 1992. And as I said, MDMA had been used as a therapy drug since the the middle '7s through the the 80s, criminalized in ' 85. And people have felt that sometimes, and I think it's it's very much the case that you're tired after MDMA, that people talk about a serotonin depletion, right? And so when you take 5HTP that can uh be helpful but when we started with the FDA they said all this information that you've got from before from underground use or from before when it was still legal doesn't matter to us really everything has to be done under direct supervision of FDA approved studies and they said don't assume that you're going to have problems and you're going to use MDMA plus 5HTP or something just start with the MDMA see what problems you get and then then you can start. So the way we think the way we think about uh MDMMA therapy is that it's really not a one-day thing, it's a two-day in the sense that the second day is for rest. It's for having no obligations, no appointments, and the therapists come back and do more integrative therapy the next day. And also we do the therapy during the day. It starts at 10:00 in the morning. It's an 8 hour session. So often people can get sleep that night. And we don't see more low mood or more tiredness in the people that get MDMA than in the people that got therapy without MDMA. So we were never um felt that the need to introduce 5HTP. We didn't have evidence of symptoms that required this. But I think it's because we talk about it as a two-day experience. The the other part is that when people um take MDMA at raves or parties and things like that, often they're drinking, they do it at night, they don't get full sleep, the next day they don't just take the day off. Often they go into activities, right? And exhausted. And they're exhausted. Yeah. And so I think that this concept that we've developed is this really thinking about it as a two-day experience where there is this um low energy and there is but it's can be productive in terms of trying to work on the issues that came up during the MDMA experience or the PTSD or depression or whatever it is that brought now there's a um a project at a place called Sunstone which is a therapy center outside in Rockville Maryland and they've worked with cancer patients who are anxious about dying and they have brought in their partners to the therapy and both of them get MDMA as well. So these are all under FDA approved studies and they found that that was tremendously effective as well because when your partner has got a life-threatening illness it doesn't just affect them it it affects you as well and often the therapy is focused again on the designated patient. So this kind of broadening the sense of who it is that is going to be treated and bringing in people's partners I think is going to be very important. Um one of the works um Marcus and Amber Capone who've done work with vets they've brought um probably by now about a thousand veterans down to Mexico for Ibagane and they have also started bringing their partners as well. they realize that you you need to think about this as a family setting and to try to treat the entire family context. Um this raises another um issue which is to talk about group therapy. So the scale of the trauma in America there's 13 million PTSD patients. This is the estimate by the Veterans Administration. You know in Ukraine we've got an entire country. Uh when I was there, practically every family knows someone or has someone that has been injured or or or killed. And so you've got massive populationbased trauma. And to think about treating people as individuals is really important, but it's going to be hard to scale because of the limited number of therapists and psychiatrists and the cost of doing that. So the FDA has wanted all the research with LSD, psilocybin, um, MDMA, 5 MODMT to start on an individual basis, but there's new studies now that are going to be working on group therapy. So one of the first in America was at the Portland, Oregon VA, and it was four therapists for six veterans. Um, and it started out where each one got an individual session first and then they got a group session. And there's two basic kinds of um trauma in the military. One is war related or accident training related and the other is what they call military sexual trauma. There's a lot of sexual abuse by veterans or by military active duty people of other people in the in the military. And they call that military sexual trauma. And so what they've learned is they have to separate those groups when they do the group therapy because if you're a military person who's been abused by other people in the military that that you might not feel safe if you're in a context of group therapy. So they've done separate the groups but they found that the the groups do terrific with supporting each other afterwards in this integration process. M and so what they've done is they've realized though that the design they had initially was an individual session and then a group session and after they did two cohorts of the six they realized that the the people felt they needed a third MDMA session and they wanted that also as a group not as an individual. M um there's a project um in Australia that's going to be climate related PTSD from floods that they've had related to climate and so they're going to be doing group therapy there and there's an incredible project that's developing in Israel that's um for people traumatized on October 7th and there's going to be um groups of seven with uh two therapists, two assistants but the Ministry of Health has taken a while to um review this application. It's funded by um charitable donations. Um the MDMA is coming from Canada. But what the Ministry of Health in Israel has wanted is and this is the first study ever where it's going to be direct comparison of individual therapy versus group therapy. So everybody is ready to have one or the other. You get randomized to either individual or group and it will be a direct comparison. And so I I think like when we think about AA and we think about peer support, um I think you can go deeper when it's individual therapy because you have more focus. You're not thinking about other people. You can go deeper, but when you're in a group setting, you can kind of bond with the other people. You can kind of um hear their other stories, but then you can support each other in this integration process. So I think at the end of it it could be that the groups do just as well as the individuals and then that will dramatically reduce the cost of the treatment and help it scale. So that's where we're at this initial thing and I think particularly for military people that are traumatized in similar circumstances that are bonded in groups that group therapy can maybe even be the treatment of choice. But I think the way the FDA is going to be uh reviewing it is that there is going to be um studies with individuals first that will have to be um gone through the system and approved and then there will be this additional research with groups. What kind of a timeline are we talking about? Like how long are these studies? Well, uh it's going to be about three years for the project in Israel. I mean it's going to be um about 160 people. What about the projects here? the the project at the Portland, Oregon VA is going to be done pretty soon, but it's really just been um four or five cohorts. It's it's very small numbers of people, and so there will need to be more. Um I think that there's been some efforts to do um what people call in some ways a modified version of individual versus group is that um they've done some of this at Sunstone also where there'll be four people getting psilocybin at the same time but each in a separate room each with one therapist but then near the end of the session they bring them together and then they talk about what happened and then they also have the group integration so it's kind of a modified so I think in terms of time frame. Um it's probably four or five years before FDA will approve group therapy, maybe longer. The the the other issue is that um the last time that we spoke it was before the FDA advisory committee and before the FDA meeting to decide whether to approve MDMA assisted therapy for PTSD. And um the advisory committee recommended against it and the FDA voted against it. This was August of last year. And so, um, that was heartbreaking because I I thought that the data really did justify, um, approval and it did demonstrate safety and efficacy. Um, but there was enough um, doubts that were raised. Um, one of the big problems to do research with psychedelics is how do you do a double blind study, right? you know, when you take a a powerful drug, you know you've taken it. And if you give an inactive placebo, people can tell the difference. Um, a lot of my dissertation, which I did in 2001, was how to do a double blind study with psychedelics, particularly with MDMA. And I my my solution which made sense was um to do therapy with lowd dose MDMA versus therapy with full dose MDMMA. So everybody knows they're getting MDMA. They all have the same expectations and they might not be aware though which dose you know is it a full dose is it a lower dose. So the challenge was to pick the low dose so that it's high enough to cause a certain amount of confusion but not so high that it has so so much therapeutic potential that you can't tell the difference between the groups. So for 16 years from 2000 to 2016, MAPS did a series of what are called phase 2 studies to try to figure out how to do phase 3. And we looked at therapy with no MDMA, therapy with 25 milligrams, 30 milligrams, 40, 50, 75, 100, 125, and 150. So sort of like a dose response. We did all these different doses. And what we discovered, fortunately, after I'd got my PhD, was that my theory was partially right and partially wrong. that um you know a micro dose of of of anything is not going to be very good as a placebo because you'll be able to tell. So what was surprising to us was that the lower doses 25 30 40 50 milligrams did indeed um cause a certain amount of confusion. But when you're working with PTSD patients and you get this activation from the drug, but you don't have enough uh of the fear reduction, it made people uncomfortable. So, we showed that the people that got therapy with no MDMA did better than the people that got therapy with the low doses of MDMA. They still got better, but they didn't get as much benefit. So, the the analogy is you're taking off in an airplane and there's all this turbulence at the beginning and then you get above the clouds and it's smooth sailing. So, it's it's kind of like that with with MDMA. But the part that we discovered that was very surprising was we did a study with veterans, firefighters, and police officers. And one group got 30 milligrams, one group got 75 milligrams, and one group got 125 milligrams. And in that particular study, when you it was about 26 people. Um, when you randomize, it doesn't mean that everything's equal. It just means it's random. So the people that had 125 milligrams with PTSD had more depression than the people that had 75 milligrams. But the 75 milligram dose group did better than the 125. Interesting. Just slightly better. So what it meant was that the dose that's therapeutically effective was lower than we thought. Can I stop you for a second? When you said the people that did 125 had more depression. Yeah. Do you mean before the study? Yes. Yes. Okay. So, so it was chosen that they would get the higher dose because they were suffering more. Well, well, no, again, this is randomization, right? But you said that they were had more depression before the therapy. Well, well, so how did you determine that? Well, well, we evaluate everybody's PTSD symptoms and their depression symptoms. And so, just by the randomization, it turned out that those people that were higher on depression ended up more of them in the hundreds randomly. Yeah. Oh, interesting. Yeah. Cuz when you randomize again, it doesn't mean that you're making things equal. Right. Right. Right. So it was just a a chance. Just turned out that way. How many people were in this group? 26 people were in the entire study. Okay. So it was just dumb luck. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. But it meant to us that this dose of 75 was indeed more therapeutic than we anticipated. So there was no real sweet spot where there was a dose of MDMA that didn't either make people uncomfortable and reduce the effectiveness compared to therapy with no MDMA or it tipped over into being very effective. M so when in November 29th 2016 when the FDA um had what we call the end of phase 2 meeting um after we got approved to go to phase three the final studies where you need to prove safety and efficacy um I knew that we shouldn't do that because of this uh we shouldn't go directly to phase three the FDA offers this opportunity that most pharma companies don't take called special protocol assessment and you negot negotiate every aspect of the phase 3 design with FDA and it can take for us it took 8 months and so pharma companies are thinking there's nothing unusual what I'm doing my patent life is expiring but I knew we needed to do that to discuss how to deal with the double blind and so we presented this information to the FDA we said we will give you blinding if you want with these lower doses but it's going to make our job easier to find a difference between um the full dose and these lower doses because it's going to compromise the therapy as compared to therapy with no MDMA at all. And so we said to the FDA, you tell us what you want. And the FDA chose therapy with inactive placebo to make our job harder. Which made sense to me. And they said that there's two things that you can do to reduce experimental bias because the whole purpose of the double blind is to sort of reduce bias that you don't know what's going on and everybody just treats everybody the same. They said the first is this random assignment. What that means is everybody's similarly motivated and they will work um and the therapists don't know necessarily that so you do this random assignment. But then the second thing is that you can't have the therapist or the patients rate themselves on how well they've done compared to baseline. You need independent raiders that are blind to the condition that the person that they're evaluating is in. Okay? So the raiders don't know did this person get the placebo? Did this person get the MDMA? It's um just don't look at their pupils. Well, the Well, this is afterwards, but but that's right. And it's done on tele medicine. It's done on on Zoom, and it's an hourlong interview, and it's with what's called the CAPS, the clinician administered PTSD scale. And do they have a series of questions? Yeah. Yeah. It's like an hourong interview about their symptoms related to what they call the index trauma, which is the worst thing that ever happened. You pick this, this is my index trauma, and how do you respond? So, we had these independent raiders um and then we had this random assignment and that's what the FDA said is how we should do the phase three studies. M what was problematic for us was the people at the FDA that we negotiated this with in 2017 then left the FDA and then new more conservative people came in at the division of psychiatry and they made they were more concerned about this what they called functional unblinding and that became an issue at the FDA advisory committee meeting and at the uh FDA when they reviewed what what whether to approve MDMA assisted therapy or not. And so the the pharma company LICOS um did not really proactively explain to the advisory committee how this design was developed, why FDA chose this design. And so the people in the advisory committee are often more academics and they're more focused on this uh double blind issue, but they're they're not practical in a sense. So that the FDA realizes that the double blind fails in practice a lot. It's it's a theory of how you want to do things. It's something to strive for, but it doesn't work a lot of the times. Even with SSRIs, you think that Prozac or various um drugs that you take that are not psychedelic, that those are easy to double blind, but they're not because when people have sexual side effects, they have other side effects and they report to their therapist what's going on, then they can tell from the side effect profile. So, the double blind fails in practice a lot. But the FDA is is saying we can't just only approve drugs where the double blind is perfect. There's we have to weigh these different things. So that was one of the big issues that the FDA advisory committee objected to was this functional unblinding. So when when you asked about the time frame, there was other issues, but where we're at right now is that there's going to be negotiations between um LICOS and the FDA with the new FDA, with the new people at HHS. And there the there's two the proverbial fork in the road. there's either the FDA will say we um believe your data enough that you're not going to need to do another phase three study. They might require what's called a phase 4 study which is after approval you gather information about safety, about durability, different things. And if that's the case, it's possible that within six months the FDA could say yes to approving MDMA assisted therapy for PTSD. If the FDA says we want another phase three study, um that could delay approval for another three and a half years or so. So that and that's just on an individual basis. Wow. So then so talk about frustration. Yeah. I mean we had incredible outcomes. So the two phase three studies that were done, the first one was severe PTSD. And what we showed is that um twothirds of the people that had severe PTSD no longer had PTSD after the treatment, which was 42 hours of therapy, three MDMA sessions, one month apart, 12 90minute non-drug psychotherapy sessions. Um twothirds no longer had PTSD that got therapy plus MDMA. And those people that got therapy without MDMA, with the inactive placebo, roughly one-third no longer had PTSD. And then another um 20 roughly um 20% had what's called um clinically significant reductions of PTSD symptoms, means that their life has changed. Their symptoms are not as burdensome, but they still have PTSD. So they're called responders. So we had 88% responders, only 12% non-responders. Wow. It it was it's it's the best treatment. In the second phase three study, we we purposely moved it to moderate to severe PTSD because we didn't want the FDA to say it's only for severe PTSD. 3/4ers of the people did have severe PTSD. Um and um one quarter had uh moderate PTSD and it was 72.6% no longer had PTSD. Almost three quarters no longer had PTSD at this two-month follow-up. And what was even more remarkable and this relates I think to the concerns that was expressed about bias and functional and blinding is that uh 46% of the people that had therapy with no MDMA also went below the threshold of having a PTSD diagnosis. That's better than any of the other therapies for PTSD. And so what that demonstrated is that the therapists, even though most of them could tell the difference between whether somebody had MDMA or not, that they tried just as hard as they could to help people whether they got the MDMA or not. And we got extraordinary results in the control group. M and I I think one of the things that is the explanation is that when you have an 8-hour therapy session with music with headphones with more or less half the time people are inside having these different um feelings and the other half they're talking to the therapists in no particular order. You're not forced to focus on the the therapy the way with prolonged exposure or cognitive processing therapy that that's what I said was retraumatizing in the studies that the VA did. Roughly half the people dropped out. We had very low dropout rates because people are encouraged to just we support whatever is emerging. That's the essence of the therapeutic approach that has been developed to support people when they're going through MDMA therapy and it's very similar to what can be done with psilocybin or LSD or even ibeane that that you just support whatever is emerging. You have this sense that there's a wisdom of the unconscious. We all know that our body has a certain wisdom in that it it moves towards wholeness. We get cuts, it heals. It's below our level of awareness. So, there's some kind of wisdom to what's emerging. You could think about it as this um barrier, this permeable barrier, semi-p permeable barrier between the conscious and the unconscious. And it all happens, we all know at dreams that that material rises to our awareness at dreams. And it's like that with psychedelics. And so, we just support whatever's emerging. And people can go to some happy memories or to layers of trauma, whatever. They're not forced to just focus on the trauma. So, we have very low dropout rates, but the people that got the therapy without MDMA, we're able to make incredible progress. We also have what are called fidelity ratings, which is we videotape all the sessions. Um, and then we have raiders are called adherence raiders and they look at our people adhering to the therapeutic method and then that's called fidelity. We had an over 90% fidelity, meaning that the therapists really were doing the same whether it was placebo or not. So the results were outstanding in that way and the side effects were very um low. We we had nobody commit suicide that received MDMA. That was one of the concerns. We had um one woman tried to kill herself twice, but she was in the placebo group. And we had another woman such severe suicidal ideiation, she checked herself into a hospital not to kill herself. she was also in the placebo group because when you help people with terrible trauma, it's difficult for them and you know they're they're not able to to really process. That's why they had long-term PTSD. So, we demonstrated remarkable results and yet the FDA said, "We need more data. We need more data." God. Um I I I think it's tragic. It is tragic, but it's also very hopeful. The results the results are very hopeful and you know I'm always hoping that people come around. Do you ever really consider though the the burden of responsibility that lays on your shoulders? Like you have been at the forefront of this for decades and I imagine a world where a guy like you doesn't exist because it's really easy for you to not exist. I only know you. You know what I'm saying? you have been responsible for so much research and so much pushing for legislation to be passed and pushing for people to understand these things and so much education. I mean, you're a real hero in this movement. Thank you. Yeah, it's um but it required it must have been an incredible amount of resolve that you have to have to keep this fight going on. It it has been and I think one of the things that was um has kept me going was a dream. We've talked about dreams a little bit. It was a dream that I had when I was in my early 20s. So when I was 18, you know, I I had um decided to focus my life on psychedelics. This was after I realized O LSD is what my bar mitzvah should have been and I was able to um see these tools as really hopeful and there was two parts. One part is sort of this um working through trauma depression. The other part is our interconnectedness. I think this the sort of the essence of what people talk about the sort of spiritual aspects of psychedelics or of meditation or of other things you feel that we're not just isolated individuals were connected with all of life and so at 18 I said it's a crazy world I was a Vietnam war um draft resistor I was planning to go to jail I'd studied Toltoy and Gandhi and non-violent resistance so my contribution to my country was going to be to not register for the draft and go to jail as a protest for Vietnam. And then I thought, you know, my dad was and my mom was saying, you're going to have a criminal record. You're never going to have a real job. You're not going to be able to be a doctor or lawyer. You'll be a felon. And I thought, okay, well, I'm not willing to to go to war because of that, but I can be an underground psychedelic therapist, and you don't need a license for that. So, that that was my plan. So, then this dream happened in my early 20s. I I should mention that I was so um I had the real wrong idea um at 18 is the idea I had was the more drugs you take the faster you evolve. I mean again I'm you know stupid 18-year-old. So So I I I did a good job of it and and I just got more disoriented and very much um ungrounded. Too much horsepower, not enough traction. That's a great way to say it. Yeah, I was very un ungrounded and and and I went to the guidance counselor at college and this was a new college uh in Sarasota, Florida and it was a private school at the time and the guidance counselor I said I need help with my dripping and uh it's become more important to me than my studies and he said well you know I understand what you're doing that's really makes sense to me in some ways we're overdeveloped intellectually and underdeveloped emotionally and spiritually and he gave me this book to read and I loved it and it was by Stannisov Gra the world's expert LSD researcher and he was MD/PhD at John's Hopkins this is now 1972 and the research was being shut down you talked about the controlled substances act of 1970 and my guidance counselor had got this book directly from Stan and um I said could I write a letter to Stan I want to become a LSD therapist and um he said sure so I wrote this letter and Stan was just leaving Hopkins and I'm this confused 18-year-old and and to my shock Stan wrote me back. Stan is now, by the way, um almost uh 94 years old. Um and um he is um still going around the world uh to to educate people. But this book was um the a pivot point in my life reading this. I said, I I really want to study psychedelics. So the dream was a few years later. Um if if people have seen the the movie 2001 Space Odyssey, um near the end of it, there's this scene where the astronaut is in this all-white room and he's on his deathbed. And so the dream was I'm in this all-white room on this and there's a person on his deathbed and he's um looking at me. He said, "Earlier in my life, I was almost uh killed, but I was saved. And I knew I was saved for a purpose, but I didn't know what the purpose was." He said, "Let me show you what happened to me." So, this is all in the dream. So, we go and it's in World War II and he was a Jewish guy and it was uh outside of a village and there was all these thousands of people lined up with open grave machine gunned by the Nazis. Um before the crematoriums and the concentration camps, they called it the Holocaust of Bullets. So, this guy was wounded, buried, uh but wasn't dead. And then it had a little bit of a Jesus kind of a theme where he was buried for three days. Somehow I'm seeing all this through his eyes. And then he wakes up and he's not dead. He climbs his way through the bodies and nobody's there. It's the edge of town. He runs into the woods. He survives the war with the partisans. And then I see all this and then we're back in the room and he's on his deathbed and he's looking at me and he says, "Now I know why I was saved." I'm like, "Oh, tell me why were you saved?" He said, "It's to tell you to study psychedelics." Whoa. That I want you to bring back psychedelics. That if we can all feel our interconnectedness, it will be harder to dehumanize others. It'll be harder to um do this mass murder that that we need to understand how we're we're um we're all more similar than different. And at the um I said in my mind again in the dream, I said um I've already decided to do this. This is sort of reinforcing it. I will say yes and you can die in peace. You will have carried this message. And then he dies in front of my arms, in front of my eyes. And then after he's on his he's dead. And then I'm thinking, what do I do next? And I walk out the the room. And now I'm somehow or other on a stream. I'm sitting down watching the water go by. And then I notice that there's this young boy sitting next to me. And I look at him and I realize I know him. In real life at the time, I had a big LSD stash. And I was worried about getting busted. And so his father was a friend of mine and he stored my LSD staff at his house. And and when I connected this guy with this little kid with LSD, then I woke up. Wow. So that's what's been a big motivator for me my entire life and made it so that I don't feel that I've been um able to just give up. It's like this sort of message from what humanity can do to each other if we don't really evolve in our consciousness. Um and so that that's what's helped me to to continue. Um I feel this u enormous for good fortune in that um I was born in this generational that I had like I won the generational lottery is a way to say it. My great-grandparents on my mother's side were refugees from Russia, came to America in 1880, fleeing anti-semitism. My um father's uh father, my grandfather and grandmother, my my grandfather flew uh fleed from Poland in 1920 also from anti-semitism. They arrive at America and it's the American dream. Um and it actually for my um my on my mother's side, it was the classic rags to riches because they had a rags business. and they turned it into a paper company. And so I was born in 1953 after the Holocaust, after World War II. And my parents were just so um supportive. And my dad was a doctor. Um and I was told, "We want to help you do whatever you want to do." And I I felt like I was born at the height of um American power, American exceptionalism. I was white. I was male. My family was well off. I was the chosen people. Jewish American exceptionalism. The only thing I wasn't was tall. But I got every other sort of lottery thing. And I just was raised that I could make a difference. And so I had this sort of this um luxury. There's actually um a Holocaust writer named Primol Levy who's uh was one of my father's uh heroes in a way and and he wrote something very interesting um that I think has relevance to where we're at today in um in America. Um and he talked about how we tend to think of that the revolutions for you know start with the oppressed and that the oppressed throw off their chains and they end up um amassing all these people and they try to work for a better world. He said but that's not actually what happens. The revolutions don't begin with the oppressed because often that's the purpose of oppression is to make it so they can't do that. They're so focused on survival. He said the re revolutions usually begin with the privileged who for one reason or another use their freedom use their privilege to argue to work towards a a better life. So what it means to me is that if you have this privilege you have the opport obligation and the opportunity to do things that other people cannot do. Um it it reminds me also of the hierarchy of needs. Many people have heard of Abraham Maslo's hierarchy of needs and the bottom one is survival that you have to work on core survival. If if you know we've had these um surveys that say um a vast proportion of America cannot afford a $500 or $1,000 unexpected expense. So you're living at this edge of anxiety, economic anxiety. You you can't really think about um many other ways to protest because you're focused on on survival. So, so I felt that I was born into this privileged place and it took multiple generations from refugees from the American dream to and so I felt I've had this um mission of of this use the privilege for making it a better world. So I've not been focused on making money. I've not been focused on I've been focused on um bringing these healing and spiritual potentials of psychedelics back to the world. And and one of the things that was so um reassuring to me and I think that um people who um will come to the psychedelic conference will see this is that once FDA said no to MDMA assisted therapy that they weren't ready to approve it that they wanted to see more data. I was incredibly uh you know depressed and frustrated and all of that. But it took me a couple months to realize that the psychedelic renaissance, that maps, lyos could disappear, but that there was so much going on with research into a whole range of different psychedelics that the field was moving forward regardless. that something had been accomplished, that this psychedelic renaissance was really moving forward, and that that was this wave that I think is um unstoppable, that we're seeing the healing potentials in so many different ways with so many different drugs. So, that gave me this it was kind of reassuring. Yeah. That that even though we were the first out of the gate and the FDA wasn't ready, um things are moving forward in a great way. So well you've got an amazing perspective considering how much work it's been. Um the one of the things that you said that I think from the dream is to give people this understanding of interconnectedness that we are all connected and without that feeling war is a normal thing. It's it's part of if you asked the average person could you conceive of a time in your lifetime where there's no war would you be willing to bet on that? Most people like no we're unfortunately I wish it was but unfortunately I think we're always going to have war. That's if let's imagine a world where there was no restrictions on psychedelics because I'm of the belief that it's probably responsible for a lot of religious experiences that we've documented. Um it's not it's not an uncommon theme in many many cultures that you have these psychedelic experiences and then through that these great revelations come and then through that great change in in the culture. I mean this is uh Illusinian mysteries in ancient Greece that Brian Morescu talks about so well. Yeah. these I without restrictions, if we didn't have these [ __ ] insane laws, we would have progressed past where we are now. If we didn't if we had gone from 1970 to 2025 without those restrictions in place, who knows what this culture looks like? Who knows what the world looks like? And it's amazing that one administration, one presidential administration with one sweeping act that was essentially put in place to stop the civil rights movement and to stop the anti-war movement and to stop the black rights movement. Like if they had done that, if that if they had not done that, if that had not gone through, we we might be looking at a completely different world where we have culturally accelerated evolution that mirrors our electronically and technologically accelerated evolution. I think that's exactly right. Yeah, I think this um I'm smiling because um you you probably know this quote from John Erlickman who was Nixon's domestic policy adviser. And this came out at the end of uh the 1970s. He did an interview. And he said that the two main enemies of the Nixon White House were the civil rights movement and the hippies, the anti-war movement. And he said, "We couldn't bust their we couldn't stop them from protesting, but we could criminalize the drugs that they were using and use that to bust up their meetings, arrest their leaders." And he said, "Did we know that we were exaggerating the risks of these drugs?" Of course we did. Yeah. And I think it's such a crime. It's a It's really a a crime of enlightenment. It's really It really is. It is. And and when you talk about Brian Mirescu and the immortality key, which by the way is being made into a documentary, phenomenal book, it's incred but the Ellisinian Mysteries is the longest running mystery ceremony that we know of in the history of the world, roughly 2,000 years. It involved a psychedelic potion called Kickion. It's not exactly clear what was in it, but it was wiped out in 396 by the Catholic Church because psychedelics offer a direct experience of spirituality and often religious systems want to be the intermediators. Exactly. They want to be the gatekeepers. And so power when we think about the reintroduction of psychedelics, you know, we talk about what happened in the controlled substance act in 1970, but it really goes all the way back to the destruction of the Elocidian mysteries. And then we have a lot of the work in the middle ages where the women were mostly the plant medicine people. And then we have the burning of the witches when the concistadors started coming into western civilization here. Um, which was indigenous civilizations. The first people that they tried to kill were the shamans that did the work with the mushrooms or the work with the peyote because they were the center of the communities. Now, these communities were not all, you know, peace and love. They were often waring and killing each other. So, there there does need to be a lot more um conscious evolution, but there's a well, they were living in a very different time. Yeah. You know, I mean, you had a bunch of different languages, you had tribal raiders. It was very common. There's, you know, it's just a different world. They were living in a much more barbaric state. Yeah. You know, there were, but it's it was essentially a window into prehistory. Yeah. There's a book that I'd um recommend for people um by Herman Hess, and it's called The Glass Bead Game. Magister Ludy, the glass bead game. And and it helped Herman Hess win the Nobel Prize for literature. And he wrote wrote it during World War II. And so there is these competitive energies that we have that often can lead to war. But the book was a post-apocalyptic culture that had decided to harness these um competitive energies into what they called the glass bead game, which was this. It's a beautiful book, but the glass bead game was about a competition using poetry, mathematics, music, and philosophy to try to describe the universe. and they would have this different kind of um who would be the most eloquent and the most comprehensive. And this was kind of the um the antidote to the competitiveness that led to this apocalypse. Huh. And and he's writing this during World War II as well as this sort of idealistic hopeful thing. But but the the other part of the book was that this game itself becomes a little bit too abstract and it no longer harnesses the passions of the common people. It became more of this elite and the head of it the magister ludy decides that he has to leave. So that there has to be some way that we we do compete with each other but we have to do it in a way to learn um non-violence and our tools of technology are getting ever more destructive. the nuclear proliferation is taking more. So I ended my TED talk with this uh which was 2019 and interestingly enough it took um six years until um Nolan Williams gave a a talk on the main stage at TED about ibeane. So it took six years from my first that was the only ever TED talk on um psychedelics in 2019 and then Nolan Williams talked about Ibegan just recently and he'll also be at the psychedelic conference. But this idea I ended up saying it's a race between um consciousness and catastrophe and catastrophe is very common. I mean as you just talked about coming back from Ukraine um today I don't know what's happening right now but today India and Pakistan started bombing each other. Yeah. Yeah. Which is terrifying. Two nuclear powers are sending missiles into each other's country. Yeah. um you know what's going on with Israel and Palestine. I I just want to mention something. So there are small groups of Israelis and Palestinians that are doing Iawaska and MDMMA together. So that in a way to to emphasize their common humanity but also to work through their traumas. And one of the most um I think um inspiring and motivating um groups in Israel and Palestine is a group called Combatants for Peace. And so these are Israeli soldiers or what would be called Palestinian terrorists or those that had used violence on both sides and they've given up violence for nonviolence. So it's a group called Combatants for Peace and the Palestinian is uh has been invited to come speak at Psychedelic Science and he was denied a visa. Wow. He cannot come to our conference. We're trying to see if we can work behind the scenes. I don't know if we can to get him a visa, but that this idea that we're um he's just because he's Palestinian. I I I don't know the exact reasons why. He did have a violent past because that is the whole point of combatants for peace. They they were combatants. They're now leading this non-violent approach to work together. So there there's a a incredible neuroscientist, Israeli neuroscientist, Leor Roseman at Exit University in England that's done work with Israelis and Palestinians and he's brought a bunch of them to to Spain for an Iawaska session and with different measures of how you see the other and once you do see this commonality, you you don't see the other as so foreign from yourself and you can recognize their pain. Um, and so like a residual effect of tribal culture from the ancient times that this you had to other these people in order to commit horrific crimes because they were going to commit horrific crimes on you. You had to protect the people around you and and unfortunately that's baked into our genes. you you you reminded me of um one of the more um powerful for me statements um Adam Kiner who's the Republican on the January 6 committee from the in the House to look at what happened on January 6th. He said that he's learned from his investigations that there's something that people are more scared of than death and that's being kicked out of your tribe. m that we're such social beings that this idea that we would be isolated and alone that that's how you have a lot of these fundamentalist religions that um keep people uh within them because if you deviate you get kicked out of the tribe and they they ostracize you. So we're we're so cultural things that mimic religions in that way. Yeah. Yeah. And then you have the fundamentalists of all the religions. Um I think this is very true that the fundamentalists of the different religions are closer to each other than they are to the mystics of their own religions and the mystics of the religions are closer to the people who are other religions because they see that it's all this common reality but that we have different symbols different stories that we tell but that but it's all about this um combination of us being both interconnected and also um extremely individual. I think this other part is that the more you realize how we're all essentially more similar I mean look at our DNA is very similar to um some animal DNA it's it's there's very slight differences we we are and and then when you talk about humans so different skin color different things we're our commonalities are really more but once you can kind of understand that hopefully then you can um be more willing to appreciate the differences so it's this paradoxical thing where that the more you realize we're interconnected, the more you can appreciate the unique individ individuality of every person. Yeah. I think what you brought up about um the uh suspension of the illusinian mysteries, the the that just so important that that that kind of tactic has always existed because the psychotic people in power want to maintain their control over the population and it's very difficult to do. It's very difficult to get people to fight each other when they're all tripping together. Yeah. And they're like, "Oh, there's something more to this." Like, we're missing out on a giant piece of this puzzle. And it's like there's these tools that are available to humanity that can elevate us. And yet these tools are by tyrants are being kept from people. Not just kept from people, but as you're talking about with Nixon's adviser, Yeah. openly discussed how they lied and used propaganda to pretend that the effects were far worse than they really were. Yeah. Yeah. And I think that uh it's again really important to say that the tools are um in some ways less important than the context within which they're used. So the social context so for example um religions often cozy up to the people in power. So there's a an Iawaska church, the Unao de Vegetal, and they came from Brazil. They actually went to the US Supreme Court and got approval for practicing Iwasa in the United States. But they're a syncric religion, meaning that in order for them to survive, they had to merge with the church. So they they've become a patriarchal, homophobic, hierarchical, and some of the leaders of the Unaad Dee Vegetal aligned with Bolsinaro who was about destroying the Amazon. So that it doesn't the tools themselves don't automatically make you a better person. It's the context. So it's the same way in therapy that you can have these experiences but it's the context in which you interpret them and then it's the integration work that you do after that really makes the most sense. So that um you can have psychedelic experiences, but if it's not in this um sort of therapeutic context where you're really open to to deal with the different um issues and things, fears of death, things that come up. So I I think we need to make that clear that it's not just it's a magic pill and it will produce better people. A great example of that is the Berserkers. Yeah. The Vikings took mushrooms before they killed everybody. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. doesn't always make you a better person really. And again, context of the culture in the times, a barbaric time, you know. Yeah. I have we talked about McKenna's stone tape theory before? Um, no, we haven't. What do you What is your perspective on that idea? Well, um what he's basically saying is that um it's a real good chance that um early um monkeys and stuff um would experiment with whatever they could around them to eat and that they would u eat mushrooms and that mushrooms then elevated their consciousness started helping develop language. Um I think it's plausible. I mean, I don't know that we'll know for sure, but have you heard Dennis describe it? Dennis, I think, does an even better job of describing it than Terrence because Dennis is like a legitimate hardcore scientist. Yes. And he explains how psilocybin would interact with the brain and glossoleia and all these different effects that could come out of it. And then that psilocybin is known for helping regrow neural tissue. Yes. That's what I talked about this neuroplasticity and this um yeah that Golan is talking about these opening these critical periods. Yes. Because part of the theory is taking into consideration the doubling of the human brain size over a period of two million years that it's this very extraordinary development. And uh you know many biologists called the biggest mystery in the entire fossil record like what happened and McKenna's perspective was I think I know I think I mean it makes sense because he had also he applied what we know about the climate back then the climate was changing and that these rainforests were receding into grasslands which would make a lot more undulates. Undullet were pooping everywhere. Mushrooms growing cow poop. Bam bam bam. And you got all these pieces together. And then the fact that it would increase visual acuity and low doses. It make people more or you know prehuman homminids more amorous. They make them more likely to mate. Uh make them better hunters because it includes it and improves their vision. Also make them more creative. So they probably develop new new ways to hunt and fish. So they would survive more. They'd have more resources, more food, more protein. They'd grow bigger and stronger. And then their brains are developing because they're eating these mushrooms. And I I think there's a that's plausible. But I think then what does that mean for us today is that I do think that the psychedelic experiences could be part of this next sort of evolution of humanity to make us more um collaborative and peaceful to deal with the incredible technologies that we're developing. Yeah. that we um Einstein had this great quote um he said the splitting of the atom has changed um everything um except our mode of thinking and hence we are drifting towards unparalleled catastrophe what shall be required if mankind is to survive is a whole new mode of thinking and what is that new mode of thinking is sort of how we're interconnected it's it's what the astronauts have said so I think we should say that this doesn't depend on psychedelics the astronauts who've been up in space looked back and see the Earth as a whole thing. Well, that's got to be a psychedelic experience just seeing Earth from the stars for and well, not from the stars, but you know, from space looking down and seeing like this the nonsense of these imaginary lines that we put on the ground. Yeah. You don't see the borders. You don't see the religions. You just see that this is one really unique planet. Yeah. That we've all grown up from and it's produced all this life and we're all interconnected. But then there's this thought process that the the conflict and the evil is important to sort of strengthen and encourage the good and that this is all a part of this evolutionary process that the human race is going through and that almost the in the face of this catastrophe is where real change comes and that we kind of have to understand that evil and and terrible behavior is a real thing. and what what what are and and have some mad search for the tools to mitigate these problems. And so it encourages encourages people like yourself. It encourages people to try to figure these things out using these and again these tools which are right under our nose that have been here for thousands of years. Yeah. I mean people say that the stars burn brighter because they're surrounded by darkness. [Music] Yeah. That's the weird thing about the human race. It's like it seems like that has to be there. You have to get rained on to appreciate a sunny day. Well, there's an incredible quote from Carl Jung. So, this Yian psychology and what he said was that um we need uh to study um more about humanity. We need to study how we operate. He said because the only real danger that exists is man himself that we are able to deal with all these things. We we said we we know virtually nothing about man. we must do more study because we are the source of all coming evil. Yikes. This was in 1959 um about three years before he died and it's chilling. We are the source of all coming evil. Well, also that's in the shadow of the bomb, right? Like everybody was still freaking out like what did we do? You know, we just annihilated two cities. Yeah. Now to talk about the shadow something else. So in Yungian psychology, the shadow is the parts of ourselves that we disown. You know, it's it's our dark sides that we don't see. And so what Jung said is that the most political, therapeutic, and social thing that we can do is to withdraw the projection of our shadow onto others. So when you cannot deal with a part of yourself, you project it out. And so these people become the enemies. These people become the evil. And we're the all good. Mhm. Um it it reminds me actually um I was with Terrence um this was my first um DMT experience. So this is u about 40 years ago. This was at Elin at Big Su. It was with Ralph Matzner, Terrence McKenna and and a bunch of us were um trying to um gather together to think how to protect MDMA. And one evening um we all were trying DMT. So not 5 MO DMT but DMT. And you smoke it in a pipe. It's like 10 or 15 minutes and um and then you just go out and then you you come back and share what happened and then you pass the pipe to the next person. So it's like a three four hour process with this group. And so for me, my first experience with uh DMT was very So the first thing I saw was this horizontal line and then I saw a vertical line and then it turned red and then it turned into cubes and then it turned into like an Mcsher painting where the space doesn't seem to make sense anymore and then I was blasted into this other universe or not but I was blasted out of myself into the universe and I felt like I was part of everything and everything was part of me and it was this glorious billions of years of evolution and And I went through all of this. But then after all that, finally I had this idea that if I'm part of everything and everything part of me, then Hitler is part of me, too. And it was shattering and but it was true. I you can't claim to be part of everything and only take the good parts, right? And it just was a shocker to me that this logic brought me to this. And it was really really shattering. And it took me this whole um day to start working on that. And then the very next day, and this gets back a little bit to legalization, the next day um and to MAPS's political strategy. The next day, um we experimented with ketamine. All right. So, in my ketamine experience, somehow or other, I was above and behind Hitler because, you know, the the Holocaust has been this animating uh idea for me in my my whole life. So, I'm above and behind Hitler. Ketamine gives you a bit of remove, like you're not quite there. So, I felt that I was safe, but I was watching him give a speech like uh to these rallies where we have, you know, enormous numbers of Germans. And I was thinking, how do I get into his head so he doesn't want to murder everybody? He doesn't want to kill the Jews, doesn't want to have this war. How do I get into his head? And I felt this panic rising. Um, and it was like bubbles, like I was um underwater and the and I felt that the bubbles of my fear, if they broke the surface, I wouldn't be able to I'd have to look away. I couldn't deal with it. And then I realized that one of the beauties of ketamine is that it doesn't interfere with your respiration. You can breathe. So I started breathing deeply which is a really important way to kind of ground yourself in difficult experiences of all kinds psychedelics or not. So I started really breathing and then I was able to go back and watch and what I saw was this Hitler salute and then I saw everybody doing it back to him and and I got this sense because Hitler was able to help people feel that they were all together the German nation that they were all part of something bigger and so it felt like he's pushing this energy out with the Hy Hitler slute and then everybody is pushing it back to him so it felt like the one to the many and the many to the on and then it was like vibrations going up and up and up like this kind of unity between him and the people and it just was terrifying and then I realized that there's no way I can get into his head like you're saying the psychopaths that are often politicians that there's they're getting so much out of it but it's the people giving away their power that I thought that's where the solution has to be. So maps is about mass mental health about a spiritualized humanity. And so that led to this understanding for me that um that safety for humanity is not just giving drugs to the leaders and having them wake up. You know, it's about anchoring mass mental health and that the people that are giving away their power getting less from it than the people that are amassing all this power. So that led to this idea we need to medicalize. We need to um go um you know to produce real scientific evidence about benefits and risks but at the same time there needs to be drug policy reform where we need access to people in a way preventative medicine or if they don't have a diagnosis. So that it's this two parallel paths. One is um science and medicine. The other is drug policy reform. And then we talked about earlier about educating young people. We need honest drug education. Um, people have died from taking ecstasy contaminated with fentanyl. You know, we we need pure drugs. We need uh pure support, treatment on demand. But I think the drug war is so counterproductive that if we could just turn a switch, it would be worth it. Yeah. But we need to really anchor and build kind of a healthier culture and healthier people. But it has to be sort of masses rather than just individuals. Have you read Blitzed by Norman Oer? I have not. We have it right over there, right? Don't we have it over there? Is it in the other room? Uh, phenomenal book on the drug use by the Nazis. Ah, it's all about meth. They were all methd out of their [ __ ] minds, which is like the wrong drugs can ruin everything. Yeah. You know, and that whole experience of being a part of something and everyone's on amphetamines. Yeah. I mean, what the [ __ ] They were giving them out to the soldiers. That's how they got him to go through Poland in three days. It's a phenomenal book. Like, but just like crazy when you think about how history was changed and a large part of the way it was accepted was because everybody was mapped up just on the wrong. I mean, imagine if Hitler was dosing out everybody with mushrooms, right? They would have been like, "Hold on." Like, "What? Why are we in Poland? What the [ __ ] are we doing? I'm not killing anybody. What is this? This is crazy. I got to get out of this country. Like people just abandoned ship. It's just the worst drugs are the ones that are always pushed by the tyrants. And I think Blitz is a perfect example of that. The the the Nazi administration, what the the the Nazi government was doing, giving their soldiers, giving their the the people in the tanks got the most meth because they had to be at the front lines. It's a crazy book, man. It just makes you think like what does that look like if no meth is there? Does this all get worked out way in advance? Does this never happen? Does the Holocaust never take place? Like what what was what would it have been like with no meth? Yeah. And it promotes aggression as well. Oh yeah. Yeah. I mean they went through Poland in three days with no sleep. Yeah. Just killing everybody. And then these French soldiers are all drinking. They had they they were given like a liter of wine every day. Wow. And they they you know so they they're drunk and silly and then the methed up Nazis show up and like what the [ __ ] Well, and you talked about the Berserkers. Yeah. Yeah. I mean Yeah. But that's the crazy thing is the Berserkers were taking mushrooms, right? Do we think Ammonita? And the difference between Well, did they also take psilocybin sometimes? Um probably. I'm I'm not sure. Yeah, I think that was a part of the Nazi lore, excuse me, the Viking lore as well. The Viking lore had Did Vikings take find that out? Would it just take because ammonita is a weird one, right? I remember McKenna saying something about that he believes that it differed not just uh seasonally but he thinks the effects diff differed genetically and geographically and they were different in different places. sort of like you know like a bad example but all I have like if you grow certain tobacos in Cuba they make the best cigars because the soil is like so rich and you get a cigar from you know it's grown somewhere in America it's not going to taste like a cigar that's grown in Cuba because there's something going on with the difference in and I would imagine there's probably something about the nutrients in certain soil that would lead to the ammonita developing these properties in some places and not in others. Yeah. Amenita mascaria. No definitive evidence of specific mushrooms Vikings regularly consumed. Though some scholars propose they may have used mushrooms for hallucinogenic purposes. Most cited examples fly argaric agaric mushroom aminated mascaria which some believe u may have been the vadic soma a sacred drink described in ancient texts. Also speculation about other hallucinogenic compounds like psilocybenis. Osilocybin mushrooms being used. So they might have as well. The ammonita mascara is the weird one though, right? Yeah. Um actually um in Ukraine they they've had some people have developed ammonita and taken out some of the more toxins and in low doses they use it for sleep. Oh wow. Amazing. Also um I've just been in touch with some um very well uh politically connected scientists in India and they don't think that ammonita is actually soma. What do they think s? They don't know. They really Why did they not think it was Amanita then? Because of the experiences that they've been able to to to sort of track the way they describe it and the way people have described it uh before. Well, there there's probably a bunch of undiscovered psychedelics, right? Like from the past at least. It it very well could be. Well, we don't even actually know what was in the um kick out from the elus. We we think that it might have something to do with um arrog and LSD like this article about it actually from Netflix about the show Vikings talks about how the Ammonita might have not actually made them berserkers and it was something else doing it. H well it says if anything flyeric would have made them particularly worthless warriors since the side effects included drowsiness, vomiting, muscle spasms and numbness in arms and legs. rather it's more like the berserkers were getting high off henbane. What is henbane? Henbane is um actually it was used um in the Middle Ages by a lot of the witches. It's it's very I think it's like um important herb for Viking and druid rituals connected to witchcraft. Whoa. Black henade. Yeah. Nightshade. I thought that was a poison. Um it can be in doses. Yeah. Interesting. So the the aminated mascaria one though I always go back to the sacred mushroom in the cross because that was what John Marco Allegro believed was the early days of Christianity. They were consuming that. Yeah. But but it's isn't it a strange one that you don't hear about people having like these breakthrough experiences on ammonita? No, you don't. You don't. And and you saw one of those side effects was drowsiness. So that sort of relates to what they've done with low doses of ammonita for sleep. Yeah. makes sense. It just I've always been puzzled by that one because it does appear in so many shamanic rituals. It appears in the old depictions of Christmas and Santa Claus and you know all the Christmas used to have like little elves and the the ammonita. I always wonder like was the ammonita different back then, you know, like what was going on? Like what happened? Um I don't know how you find that out. I mean, you can probably do some genetic um studies to see how long these genes that are in Amanita have persisted and yeah, I'm not sure. I mean, but it's pretty clear that at least from a lot of these Indian scholars that that ammonita is not soma, but they don't know what it is. Interesting. Interesting. Yeah, the Urgot thing is very interesting, right? Because urgot has similar effects to LSD. Yeah. And so the uh Illusinian mysteries they I think it's only right now it's been confirmed from I think it was just one or two vessels these pottery vessels that they found traces of Urgot. Yeah. I mean that's unbelievable the the again this just illustrates how far advanced our science has become way over our spiritual and emotional development. You're able to look at thousands of year old vessels and get microscopic traces of what was in them. Crazy. Yeah. Well, at least it lets you know, okay, now it makes sense that that's how they figured out democracy. Well, the Greeks are the Yeah. Yeah. the the home of democracy. I mean, and also like just this astounding culture that emerged and how much of it was connected to that and then the people in power were like, "Yeah, we're going to shut that down. We don't like this aspect of your you guys are a little too hard to control, a little too hard to propagandize." you don't need the intermediaries and we want the taxes. We want to tell you what and so I think when we this gets back to one of the earlier points you made about it do I get frustrated which is to realize that um this is actually thousands of years plus of the suppression of psychedelics and also you said something earlier how quick a hundred years goes by. Yeah. So, what if something takes a couple generations? That's okay. You know, I think one of the things I I like to say is that if your goals are something that you can accomplish in your own lifetime, they're too small. We need to have like multi-generational goals. Um I I grew up um outside of Chicago and there's this uh Baja temple. So, the Bahigh religion is um emerged out of Islam, but it's more of a universal religion. and this um and they're suppressed a lot in the u Islamic countries, but there was this temple that they built outside of Chicago, this beautiful temple, but it took three generations to build it. And when you're a little kid and thinking about it, I'm like, how could they even plan ahead? How could they even have hope that why would they even start something that they didn't even know would ever be finished, right? But that now it's one of the most beautiful temples in the world. And so I think this process of elevating consciousness in humanity so we can learn how to live together and not destroy the planet is um however long it happens to take. So if things take longer than I thought, you know, that's a great attitude. Yeah. Well, I think you have to have that attitude. But you're always so happy. Every time I meet you, you're always you're always smiling. You're always happy. Well, you know, I'm not in jail. There you go. You're not dead. you're not crippled. Yeah. There's a lot of you unhealthy. Yeah. And lot of positives. I think the um you know the hope that we had that FDA would approve. Well, they they didn't. So, you know, do you just give up, right? No. You know, you just keep on trucking. Keep on trucking. Yeah. Well, thank you for what you do, man. Um I want to add one thing about the conference. Just say that that um it's going to be really really fun. It's going to be if people come to it, 500 speakers, 500 speakers, thousands, thousands, thousands of people, all sorts of ways the psychedelic community is going to be coming together. Do you have a website? We Yeah. Uh psychedelicscience.org or or maps.org. There's actually going to be a um Look at that. If you put That's cool. What is that thing spinning around? A molecule. That's molecule. But if you put Rogan in uh when you want to um register, there's a 15% discount. Oh, great. to go to the conference. We also have this um we have 10 different stages. We have all different tracks for different kinds of interests. We also have this project called um music is the bridge. And so this is we have various uh people are coming up with the music that they would listen to during a psychedelic experience. Like Iose IO very much. Yeah. So there's going to be uh concerts, music, all sorts of things connected to this uh conference and it's it's also lots of opportunities for networking and for because again for me what I'm even though MAPS has been focused on MDMA what it's really about is the psychedelic renaissance. So I don't see the psilocybin or the ibeane or anything as competition. It's we want the psychedelic therapists of the future to be cross-trained in all the different drugs and then to be able to customize the treatment for each in each person. And that's what we're hoping to to develop. And one more time, what are the dates and where is this? Uh it's June 16th to the 20th. It's coming up next month and it's in Denver. It's at the Colorado Convention Center. We have um That's a big place. Best Oh yeah. Uh last time uh we did this is 2023. We had 12,400 people. Whoa. It it was astonishing. It It was um Yeah. Must have been the nicest people, too. Oh, it was so hopeful. And it it was magical. Um so um I think that this would be um if anybody wants to learn about the psychedelic community, this is where we gather together. This is where How many feds do you think go to these things? Well, we want them to come. That's the point is that we want them to come. Well, here's the other point is that we we work with uh police officers. The when you think about what job is among the most traumatizing and it's being a police or being a um EMT EMT or or being a a prison guard or these and and they're trained sort of to suppress their feelings to not talk about it, right? And so there's so yeah, we want the feds to come. The more that they come, the more that they learn. Um we have trained um police officers who are also therapists that um have even got permission from their police chiefs to go through our protocol to get MDMMA as part of their training. Wow. So really it's healing for all. That's why I'm going to Beirut. That's why I just came from Ukraine. We've got a project in Somaliand in Africa. Um we want to do work in Rwanda. So I think that loose is going to succeed whether it takes six months or three and a half years or whatever. We will eventually FDA will eventually approve MDMMA assisted therapy for PTSD. Then they'll approve psilocybin and other things. And so I'm sort of going around the world in sort of high trauma, low resource areas to try to globalize access. Um, and and I think that we're in a a perilous time in America right now, and we could use more people dealing with their fears, dealing with their anxiet, withdrawing the projection of the shadows. You know, immigrants have actually made America stronger in a lot of ways. I mean, where did we all come from? I mean, what is the story of of your family? Immigrants. Immigrants in the 1920s. From from where? Italy and Ireland. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Well, this is a this is the real melting pot of the world. And and I know that there's a lot of prejudice against immigrants when they first show up, but now we don't think uh you're not an American. Right. Exactly. Yeah. It Well, I mean, I think the real fear that people have as cartel members and people coming across the border and terrorists coming AC and not having a secure border, which I think we should have a secure border, but I also think we should have path to citizenship, too. Oh, totally. Yeah. I mean, this is a a great place and this is the reason why people are willing to walk across the river to try to get here with their children. They they they know that you can make something out of your life here. I just think we could do better with with all the things that you said, all the things you said. And with a guy like you out there spreading the world, spreading the word rather, it helps the world. So, I appreciate you. Yeah. You're doing God's work. We really are. And look how miraculous it was that that I'm here today with you that you had the universe works like that. Incredible. Thank you, Duncan. I'm so sorry you had a uh emergency root canal. Yeah, poor Duncan. That sucks. He'll be He'll be back. Okay. Well, thank you very much, Rick. It was awesome. Uh thank you. Go to maps.org. Yes, that's it. Everything. Thank you everybody. Bye. [Music] [Applause] [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: WT9NBzbS5iU (https://youtu.be/WT9NBzbS5iU) ===

hey what's up and welcome back to another episode of the relationship schools podcast i'm your host jason gaddis grateful to be here with you right now if you're new welcome this podcast is all about relationships of course and we help you have better family friend partner relationships bottom line and if you're returning thanks for being here again it seems like we have a great loyal following here and i just want to appreciate all of you who have left us reviews on apple podcasts so cool that helps us reach more people believe it or not got a good one from driving horses who says it's impossible to describe my gratitude for the benefit joy knowledge and tools for relational living that jason brings to my life in this podcast through his guests and personal sharing around the commitment to long-term loving relationship i now have a dynamic set of trails to follow i knew have a newfound passion for life and love that i never thought would be possible wow it's so cool and you go on and say a bunch of cool stuff thanks 10 stars nice okay if you'd be so kind to leave us reviews if you haven't and you're getting value thanks so much yeah so in this episode um you know i do a variety of interviews that are you know a little alternative and this one is no exception i've got the founder of maps on this episode maps is the multi-disciplinary association for psychedelic studies rick doblin so he's the founder and executive director of maps he received his doctorate in public policy from harvard's kennedy school of government where he wrote his dissertation on the regulation of medical uses of psychedelics and marijuana and his master's thesis on a survey of oncologists about smoked marijuana versus the oral thc pill in nausea control for cancer patients okay this guy is an unbelievable trailblazer in the realm of psychedelic research and getting psychedelics into mainstream cultures so that we can heal our trauma through psychedelic assisted psychotherapy so it we get into this conversation at length particularly around mdma but we cover ayahuasca we cover lsd we cover psilocybin i share a couple of vignettes from my own psychedelics experiences um rick has uh kids he's married uh we talk about his marriage and and his children and and his psychedelic sort of advice i guess for parents at the end which is really interesting and he studied with dr stan groff who many of you might know as the guy who kind of birthed holotropic breath work and that came out of being shut down around doing psychedelic particularly lsd psychotherapy people came in and said no you can't do that so he created holotropic breath work which if you've ever done that i highly recommend it it's a incredible way to access your unconscious and um also historic memory in your body and then be able to process it afterwards with assisted care so uh you know some of you know that i i have a fair amount of experience with psychedelics over the course of many years and i'm a big fan uh in terms of the resurgence and what's going on uh in terms of our ability to heal trauma in particularly with the assistance of psychedelics so this interview is coming from the lens of how do we heal trauma most effectively and efficiently and relational trauma is often what's going on so i thought it'd be fun to to have rick on the show so i think you're going to dig this certainly interesting and i hope you enjoy it and stay tuned to the end as always for your action step welcome to the show rick doblin yes thank you very much jason i'm really looking forward to it yeah man uh me too so uh rick uh i've been following your your work and your trailblazing around um psychedelics and trauma and psychotherapy for a number of years and i just want to say thank you for working so hard in the trenches to make all this happen what's currently happening yeah it's it's taken a little while it's taken our culture around 50 years since the psychedelic 60s and the backlash to reach this point where we're very open to it now we're open both medicalization of psychedelics through science to fda but also through religious use of psychedelics and people are starting to question the drug war more and more so we're even approaching the time where people without a diagnosis can use mdma for couples therapy or so in a legal way we got a ways to go for that still but yeah it's really um delightful in a way to see the way that culture has changed over these last half century yeah yeah so cool um just for the newbie here um we're going to talk today about psychedelics and healing and growth and how this might actually positively impact our relationships since so much so many of us have relationship injuries and pain at the hands of other people or in you know bad breakups or childhood intense childhoods so just to frame the conversation why um why psychedelics why has psychedelics been your life mission and why does it matter when it comes to relationships like what's the point okay well um yeah it'll be sort of two interrelated uh questions so why psychedelics um it was really 1972 when i was 18 years old that i felt like i would devote myself to psychedelics to my own therapy to becoming psychotherapists bringing back psychedelic research the reason was political and i had grown up in ways that were very protected you know america at its strongest but i was educated about extraordinarily traumatic situations about the holocaust and the whole dehumanization mass murder about the cuban missile crisis where that was a big thing when i was growing up this idea of just uh the whole world could be destroyed and done under your desk and cover which i must say was not that reassuring yeah i mean it's you know kids these days get sugar drills which is terrifying for them when we know that but then you get a drill when you're young and it's like well the whole world could blow up at a nuclear explosion nuclear wars you know people don't quite understand when you take that seriously what that does to your sense of what the world is like and for me the vietnam war and being a draft resister and studying non-violent resistance and so all of that led me to think of psychological factors and why we could be uh destroying ourselves as a species and also as sub groups einstein said that our technology has exceeded our humanity and so i believed all the stuff as i was growing up about the dangers of psychedelics i believe that if you took um lsd uh five or six times you were certifiably insane for the rest only i heard that remember many times yep yeah you know i believe that it caused chromosome damage i believe that you would have deformed babies i believed all this stuff but over time i started questioning that and then when i first started trying psychedelics and had intimations of um being connected to a deeper reality that it wasn't just me isolated from birth to death and you know trapped in my own head it was um this enormous progress that had been made over billions of years to bring us to this point and that i was part of it all and we're all part of it all and and and then i i recognized the political implications of this kind of mystical sense of unity that if you feel that then you realize that we have more in common than different than other people and so it's harder to dehumanize others it's harder to commit genocide it's harder to be racist it's harder to think let's wipe out all the russians or or whatever so it was out of despair because 1972 was after the crackdown of the backlash against the 60s nixon is saying that the war on drugs we got to escalate timothy leary is the most dangerous man in america and it's sort of the idealism and the hope of the 60s that crashed and burned and with it the psychedelics were thrown under the bus and they were blocked from even being scientifically studied not in just the us but all over the world and so it was 72 that i really started undoing my programming and realizing the potential of psychedelics for me for society for for other people and so i just thought that um as part of a revolutionary strategy you could say to try to make the world a better place that um a bunch of people should be looking at psychedelics and try to bring them back because they're not automatically inherently mystical or spiritual or therapeutic but when used wisely they can be so it was for political reasons really that i uh decided to focus on psychedelics the the other part of it was there's a researcher stanislav groff who's 89 years old now oh yeah object psychiatrist lsd researcher he helped start transpersonal psychology he's just an incredible man for those people that are interested he just summed his life work up in two volume the way of the psychonaut oh wow he is for inner journal journeys which map sells maps.org at our website you could see about his book but yeah we studied him in grad school by the way at naropa i went to naropa so yeah yeah and actually right this moment we're doing a training of therapists through naropa with oh cool and bruce who are uh living in boulder one of our therapists have worked we have an uh alliance with naropa because it's controversial they opened it up to their alums not just their current students oh cool i got loads of them to uh apply and i'll also just mention that um i was uh ended up uh spending a fair amount of time with uh salmon rabbis zalman schachter who was a yeah i gave him his first mdma experience oh wow he was amazing he declared mdma was like the sabbath like a time out of time a delight it was pretty great so um what really did it in addition to the sense of politics of the the value of the mystical experience was also i had a difficult lsd trips and masculine trips and i went to the guidance counselor at my college when i was 18 and i said help me with my lsd trips and i was so lucky i managed to get somebody who was sympathetic thought it was an important pursuit and not only that he was in touch with stan gruff and he gave me stan's blood oh my god which was realms of the human unconscious observations from lsd research which is stan's first book and what makes it even more amazing is the book wasn't published until 1975. guidance counselor had a manuscript copy of it and he had he was in touch with stan so after i read this book i was able to write to stan and stan actually wrote me back and i went to a workshop with stan and joan health in the summer of 1972. man amazing incredible but but the thing about stan's book was that it did talk about the mystical experience the sense of unity connection and it did so though in a scientific framework i'm very suspicious about religious dogma religious traditions that um yeah just to give you one example um i'm jewish and probably a lot of people know that the way judaism goes at least according to the orthodox is if your mother's jewish you're jewish if your father doesn't matter what your father is it's all about your mother and the orthodox um you know believe that that's what it means to be jewish in their eyes but that's not the way it was in the bible the bible it was your father it was you know abraham isaac and jacob it was all about the fathers and around the earth a thousand the rabbis changed it to be the mother because jews were in exile rape was a weapon of war if you have all these uh fathers that are not jewish that are raping all these jewish women and then their babies aren't jewish that's a great way to destroy the culture so they switched it so that now it's the religion of your mother you know we can only tell who the mother is and if she's jewish or jewish doesn't matter so people have these ideas that that certain kind of religious uh systems and dogmas are you know unchangeable but that's not the case so stan was looking at a mystical experiences from a cross-cultural scientific perspective and more importantly than even that he was talking about psychotherapy and so everything was put to a reality test of can we help people actually get better in their lives overcome depression and anxiety ptsd fear of death lack of meaning and purpose and so i felt that it was mysticism with a reality check this therapy so it was both helping people see the world more accurately as it really is through our own filters it can be warped by trauma and pain and prejudice and just our childhood upbringing um and it was this political impact of the mystical experience so powerful that's why yeah yeah and and obviously it's evolved a lot which we'll talk about but um delineate for the listener just that which might seem obvious to some of us but um like when i was in college uh and i sort of to front load that is just the difference between like a a trip and just having fun versus actually a facilitated holding environment that's where transformation can occur in a safe place right so my first time with mdma was in college and it was a really positive experience uh and it was wonderful but i had no you know there was just partying basically it was ecstasy right let's take some ecstasy dude we had a few beers it was a fun night and then when i did lsd um and psilocybin those were two totally different monsters for me and i had no way to integrate the experience i had what you called kind of bad trips very much scared me and um right there's a big difference between that type of use and facilitated use will you just talk for the listener about the the beginning so so the first thing that's the difference is that the way you described it is let's just have fun yeah and so when you have that mindset i'm just going to take these drugs to have fun a lot of times things come up that are difficult um you know stan groff says that lsd is a non-specific amplifier of the unconscious you know mdma is more loving more it really is oxytocin the amygdala goes offline and yeah it's more reliably um open-hearted loving connection but lsd psilocybin they're non-specific amplifiers of the unconscious and so if difficult stuff comes up that's emotionally charged it will come up and if your mindset is i only want to have fun and oh now this is getting difficult and then you try to stuff those feelings down you could be worse off for you to have a better experience yeah yeah what we do say in our zendo psychedelic harm reduction program which is actually led by was led by sarah gail from boulder also the the main things we say are first off uh create a safe space so that's very important that you feel safe that you feel uh protected it's easier to be protected if you have somebody there that you're not just doing it with a bunch of people that are all dripping and you know you've got nobody to be the intermediary between you and the outside reality or to protect you all so uh the other part is city not guiding in the sense that we believe that there's a innate healing mechanism of the psyche and once you take these psychedelic drugs even in your dreams we can say that things emerge in your dreams and we need to we follow them we support people to experience whatever they are so we're not doing guided imagery we're not we don't know all the psychodynamics for the individual also we say that um talk through not talk down and so this gets to be the difference between recreational and therapeutic is that when somebody has a difficult experience when a bunch of people are just out to party people hey don't care about it you know don't pay attention let's just laugh and you know think about butterflies and rainbows and you know whatever and when you try to talk somebody down from a difficult trip um you're not dealing with the difficult material you need to talk through it you need to help people work through it and that way they can actually make enduring progress with their emotional dynamics the final thing that we say is that difficult is not the same as bad so in the situation that you described when difficult stuff comes you're thinking i'm just not here to party oh now it's getting difficult that's bad i got a bad trip i better shut this down or do something drink some you know we also don't give mbma or lsd or slocon after alcohol that kind of mutes it as well yeah so i i think the dangers of recreational use are that people approach it too casually they only want to have one slice of the emotional range pleasure without pain yeah yeah and and you could end up worse off and when you do encounter difficult stuff um there's there's a great book about ptsd by a fellow named vessel vander goat and the book is uh the body score yeah he's been on the podcast before yep oh good good yeah he's the principal investigator of our boston site here so uh for mdma research and he happens to think mdma's incredible potential for ptsd but a lot of times difficult stuff doesn't just come up in your awareness with a story and the memories a lot of times when it's particularly difficult it comes up in body sensations there's a lot of people talking about somatic therapy yeah and so you need somebody ideally that's that's knowledgeable to help in this emergence process and just to give you one quick example um i was sitting for somebody who was a german doctor this was now 1984 and his arm became paralyzed under the influence of mdma he couldn't move it and he was like freaking out and we're like look mdma is not hurting your nerves this is something psychomatic psychosomatic we don't know what it is you don't know what it is but but let's just you know we don't have to take you to the hospital let's just like play it out and over hours and hours came this story and the story was that uh he and his mother and his siblings were around the deathbed of their father he was in the hospital kept alive on all these machines but not really that conscious and they had to decide whether to remove remove the life support he was a doctor he wrote out the order but the thing that he said to us that was complicating is he hated his father yeah so he wasn't sure if he killed his father and that was sort of the fear that he had that i wrote this i killed my father and and so that came in this paralysis of his arm that signing all right then over time he started realizing no his mother thought it was the right thing his siblings thought at the right thing um his father did want that and so once he sort of resolved this unconscious guilt that he had killed his father for the fear that he wasn't able to look at carefully the feeling came back to his arm yeah by the end of it he was fine so when you do these things in a recreational setting and and you don't have people that understand the way that things can get somaticized or that they need to emerge you you can end up um shutting things down and being worse off for a very long time yeah so absolutely yeah the other big thing about the um difference between therapeutic settings too is first off is pure drugs when you're buying stuff on the street you don't know what it is yeah it could be mixed with also you have um informed consent forms in the research you're educated a lot about what it is about how long it's going to take you know your friend's name context that's clear yeah you know maybe you don't even know that there's ecstasy is really mdma is really different than lsd or suicide yeah it is fundamentally different in a lot of ways so on the other hand let me just say that there are a bunch of people that take mdma recreationally and do a lot of good therapeutic work sure but their attitude is more i'm going to deal with whatever comes up um just as another story um this is like 10 15 years ago there was some one week where two women contacted us with almost identical stories but different outcomes they both had taken mdma at a rate and both had memories of sexual abuse and rape come up one of them said i was with a bunch of friends just to have fun and i knew they didn't want to hear about anything serious like that so i stuck my feelings down and now it's months later and i feel worse the other woman said um i was with a bunch of people that we took these drugs for fun this memory of the sexual abuse rape came up and i was with a girlfriend though too and we went off into the corner and i talked to her about what happened an hour later i felt a lot better and i went back to the party and now i feel better yeah so you you can have a lot of progress uh that people can make in these uh recreational i tend to call them celebratory experiences recreationals kind of diminishes them they're somehow rather frivolous and reckless and they're they're just for fun but but they well recreate that yeah i think that's actually an important distinction there recreational versus celebratory because the i think it was the might have been the first or second psilocybin experience i had i was in the utah desert and um i had one of these openings that was profound where i felt connected to everything right but then shortly thereafter i saw myself from a hundred yards or so away and i it freaked me out because i was seeing my personality and the strategy that i had created for my life and how it wasn't working and i got me in touch with how big that gap was and how much pain i was in and i sent me into the quote bad trip zone uh only because i was expecting something different right yeah but it was super like looking back it was a pivotal moment in my life it began it kind of punctured the facade of my personality and put me on the path in a stronger way wow that's terrific yes that's terrific yeah and people have those kind of experiences even even recreational settings right yeah oh for sure i mean it's just again when you say non-specific amplifier of the unconscious things that are charged will come up the other big difference i would say between therapeutic and recreational or celebratory even is that the recreational celebratory is about what experience do you have while you're under the influence of the drug the therapeutic is about what you bring back from the experience underneath the drug to integrate into your baseline to make your baseline different not just trying to have a experience that's that's a pleasurable experience you're trying to learn and bring back so that you so what we find also is that um after our therapy which is basically three and a half months long three mdma experiences once a month interspersed with 12 90 minute non-drug psychotherapy sessions that at the 12-month follow-up people keep getting better so at the two-month follow-up which is two months after the last mdma session um that's what's called the primary outcome measure that's where we compare the results from the control group who get therapy without mdma that's active versus therapy with active mdma people do pretty well then um but at the 12-month follow-up after which so at the primary outcome measure we stop having any interventions they can do what they want they can add anything but people are even on average better at the 12 month than at the two-month follow-up they've learned how to process trauma pain and now they can do that on their own without the drug it's incredible and that's what the therapy is about is to teach you tools during the experience on the drug then you can use without the drug on your own and so the emphasis is really completely different it's on changing your baseline and getting you to not need drugs versus oh i'm going to have fun every time i have fun i have more fun with the drugs so i'm going to keep taking this drug every time i have fun right and if we talk about the mechanism of mdma the way i understand it is mdma allows the amygdala which is a big fear center in the brain it sort of takes it offline if we want to simplify it a little bit and allows me to look at my trauma right in a safe way where i feel relaxed and my nervous system is calm and i've got a loving presence there being witness and helping me if i need it and then afterwards i i'm left with this sense of oh i'm it's not me it's a it's something that happened to me and i can make meaning of it and now i can learn how to relate to a different and let's follow up psychotherapy for example i can have a completely different experience is that sort of in a nutshell i mean maybe simplistic way dumbed-down way mdma and how it works yeah that's a good way to say it so um you know some of our people in our studies have said ptsd changed my brain and mdma changed it back so if you have ptsd you have a hyperactive amigo you you're constantly uh in fear you're easily triggered by certain memories or certain reminders of the trauma but also you have reduction of activity in the prefrontal cortex when you have ptsd you're no longer as logical some sound that um you're clearly not like for people that were in a battle some sound in a city a car backfire or whatever yeah things seems like a bomb but but you know you're not in the middle of a war zone but but you don't have that logical ability to sort of have that moment no no i'm not at risk right now so the um other other part of it is that um the trauma experience um feels to people like it's always happening or about to happen again you're never able to process it into long-term memory so there's a sort of reduction of connection between the amygdala and hippocampus where we store things into long-term memory so that's how ptsd changes your brain mdma reduces activity in the amygdala so that your fear response is way reduced your activity in the prefrontal cortex is increased and the connection between the amygdala and hippocampus has increased as well so that you can take these experiences and place them in the past whereas before people have been unable to do that also mdma stimulates uh oxytocin which is the hormone of nursing mothers love and bonding that builds therapeutic alliance builds connection it releases serotonin dopamine and norepinephrine in some complex cascade so i think that um designing a drug for ptsd you design mdmx absolutely it's really mixes very well with it and what we've shown too is that these patterns of fear and trauma that people develop they can last for decades and decades and decades i mean we've had vietnam vets though that under mdma were able to get over ptsd well so you can be i think this is basically a message of hope you know that you can be stuck in this kind of recycled brain patterns based on fear based on trauma but that it's not necessarily permanent there is hope for healing yeah and that that can be done um the other thing i just want to say is that um for people that don't have trauma you know it's it's always um challenging um you know when we have uh close loving relationships uh you know to be uh a good listener sometimes you know everything gets wrapped up into um our own um you know ego vulnerabilities or you know or even um you know it's it's really sometimes hard to communicate without the emotions getting all wrapped up in it so mdma is phenomenal for couples therapy for relationships because this yeah the the part that we haven't really that i haven't really mentioned is the sense of self-acceptance that's another big part of mdma is this so the fear goes down but you accept and love yourself as you are there's a sense of okay you know all these things are happening but you know i'm lovable as i am so once you have that sense of self acceptance you're not so dependent upon your uh other the other or the partner you know telling you great things about you you you can be more open to critical comments become a better listener and also you can explain um what you're feeling um more fluidly because you're not tripping over all these internal like um fears of rejection or you know you know fears of not wanting to accept this part of you or that part of you this urge or that urgent this fantasy you know you're able to be more um self-acceptance and so i think that the the challenge for us actually is that one of the very best uses of mdma is for couples therapy but because the drugs are illegal we can only work through the fda to get drugs approved for diseases for clinical diagnosis right and so you know a difficult relationship in the future you know may may be considered a disease but right now it's not yeah but it's some of the most painful important things that people have in their lives absolutely and so when you figure out a way to get that and that that's where we get into this whole drug policy reform you know we need to make it so it's available to people legally without them having to go to their doctor or have some religious ceremony and say it's religious freedom [Music] okay quick interruption from yours truly how would you rate your conflict skills with the most important people in your life do you withhold the truth do you are you able to get to zero every time and work through the stuff get back to a good place or is it challenging if you're normal it's probably challenging so i want you to consider coming to our relationship workshop on conflict called accepted and connected because that's what you feel on the other side of conflict if you know how to work through it all right so here's what one of our european students had to say check it out i'm alexander i always wanted to do the in-person event but i couldn't travel to usa and now being it online i immediately jumped on the opportunity to take part at it i got clarity about how i operate when i'm under stress because i shut down my communication with people around me and simultaneously my expectations in their regard rises but not communicating we fall apart and i resent them so what i got out of this is that i need to speak up when i get out there under stress and even ask for help and name it that in trouble so that they know what is going on and what is what is happening so doing the work and learning and practicing the tools and what i noticed is that not only my marriage improved i noticed that i have relationships all around me let it be with my daughter let it be where on the workplace and i'm using the same tools in all of these relationships and i i see i see that i can really feel and see the difference there you have it from alexander who had an amazing experience he's been studying with us for a while thanks alexander come check us out again guys relationshipschool.com forward slash connected and back to the podcast [Music] you were talking before we hit record about this that there are experimental studies right now underway with the va can you can you say more about that yeah we have uh tried since 1990 to sponsor research inside the va right now just to give you an example of the problem that they face there's over a million vets disabled with ptsd not all of them hundred percent but um it's somewhere in the neighborhood of 15 billion dollars a year that the va pays on disability payments well 15 billion a year and these are mostly younger people and so this is going to be going on for 40 years more so you would think that the va would want to pay for new treatments for ptsd would pay to develop them but totally so far we haven't got a penny from the va um what happened about um 11 years ago is that i got in touch with richard rockefeller who was a doctor david rockefeller was his father he was chair of the board of advisers of doctors without borders and he was involved in kosovo and serbia and saw massive numbers of refugees all with ptsd and he didn't know how to help them and so we started talking about mdma and he said what's your biggest problem and i said it's the va and the department of defense now you know they should be interested in this we're trying to get them interested but they just won't listen because of the stigma of psychedelics conveniently his cousin was senator jay rockefeller from west virginia on the senate veterans appearance committee so we had a whole series of meetings up and down the pentagon all the way up to the secretary of the navy the assistant secretary of defense for health affairs various admirals navy psychiatrists all this kind of stuff and then we went through the va up to the level of the secretary of the va all this media by senator so we finally had this meeting and now this is about um right now it's about six and a half years ago and it was with the the department of defense and the va and what they finally were able to say to us is that they would let one of their researchers work with us we had to pay for it they had to use their academic affiliations not their va affiliations and the people who were in the study had come from outside the va and the one therapy that they thought we should start with was this woman named candace monson who had had been in charge of women's health at the boston va and she had developed an approach to treating ptsd called cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy conjoint means couples or dyads so it's about treating the person with ptsd but true couples work through couples work yes because it affects the relationship and they're also looking at helping the person who's got the stress from having a partner that gets ptsd so there's all sorts of measures of the strength of the relationship of how they communicate communication styles and things like that um and so that you know the the people at the uh department of defense and the va had heard about you know mdma is the love drug and they thought okay let's just do this couples therapy thing so we then did this um project with candice and ann wagner who was one of her proteges with our lead psychiatrist and his wife michael and annie mitchell who were a co-therapy team and we did six dyads where both members of the couple the one that had the ptsd and the relationship both got mdma and so this was called a treatment development an open label it was no double blind open label treatment development study to look at how we might blend mdma with cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy now cognitive behavioral therapy cognitive processing therapy prolonged exposure these different therapies for ptsd are highly scripted you know they're manualized they're scripted here's what you do on the first meeting here's the second meeting here's your learning objectives here's your exercises here's your homework all this kind of stuff so what it evolved though is that the exercises for cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy were used more in the preparation sessions or in the tail end of the mdma session but the mdma session itself looked more and more like the way we did it open-ended supportive not interdirected from the people that are coming up you know expression of symptoms rather than suppression of symptoms you know if somebody had body pains you'd encourage them to express it or to to cry or rock or whatever they're doing and it turned out to be a great way to sort of back into studying mdma for a couple steps yeah and so about two months ago candace and i presented the results of our face i presented the results of our phase two and phase three research with mdma assisted psychotherapy for ptsd to try to make it into a prescription medicine and then canvas presented the results of this blending mdma with cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy and she showed all of the studies that she did to develop the technique and she showed what's called the effect size so many people know about statistical significance it's you know is something more likely to be by chance or by something that you're trying to study and if something is a 1 in 20 chance of being by chance it's called statistically significant and the more people you have in a study the easier it is to find statistical significance from smaller and smaller changes but these changes might not be clinically significant you could have statistically significant uh changes but they're clinically very minor yeah so a new measure has been developed called effect size which is the strength magnitude of the effect it's sort of indirectly related to uh statistical significance so candace presented all of the effect sizes from all of the studies of cognitive behavioral conjoined therapy without mdma and then she presented the effect size when you blend mdma with it and it was better than any study that she'd ever done before of course and so now he wants to do a larger study that would really um look more closely with a control group and and many other dyads to look at uh blending mdma with cognitive behavior the important thing to say here too is that candace is now president of the international society of traumatic stress studies the largest organization of ptsd therapists and researchers in the world well he's now the president of it so we are making a lot of progress through the mainstreaming um mdma assisted psychotherapy for ptsd and psychedelic psychotherapy in general that's so cool and and how far rick are we out from i know we're are we in phase three clinical trials of ndma yeah all right so um it took us 30 years from the start of maps in 1986 to november 29 2016 30 and a half years to get to the place where we went to fda and we said we would like to have an end of phase two meeting so phase one is safety studies phase two is your small pilot studies developing your approach who's your best patients what's your inclusion exclusion criteria what's your doses what's your you know treatment method all these things so um we got permission to go to phase three after 30 years of work um then we negotiated eight months about with fda about how to design the phase three studies and what else they would want to see with other data then fda declared mdma a breakthrough therapy for ptsd meaning it's among the most promising treatments for a drug for whom for a disease for which many people are not sufficiently healed from the currently available medications and psychotherapies yeah it took us a bunch of time to raise much more money now we've raised over 100 million dollars in donations in the history of maps dude congratulations by the way you shattered your goal there of 30 million yeah well that was over you know 30 um four years okay all right but but then we started in 2018 we started face um and so what we had in march of uh 2020 was what's called the interim analysis you can take a sneak peek at your data not you but your independent data monitoring committee and they look at the unblinded data and there's only a few people on this committee and then they tell the sponsor several different things they the only thing that you get is a number they don't tell you the data they don't tell you who's who you have to wait till the study is finished but the interim analysis we agreed with fda we would do two 100 person phase three studies okay the interim analysis is done when 60 have or 60 people had their primary outcome measure and the other 40 were enrolled okay all right so the purpose of the interim analysis is to give you the advice do you need to add more people to get statistical significance this independent data monitoring committee compares your actuals with your hypotheticals that you use to size the study and do your statistical power calculations which we the hypotheticals were based on our phase two data and so this interim analysis uh in march will tell told me either you don't need to add anybody which is what we wanted or you need to add a certain number of people which means our effect size would have been less than we had predicted or just give it up it's it's futile it's not working no matter how many people you add stop the stuff there's only one other drug that the fda declared a breakthrough therapy for ptsd which was called tan maya by tonic's pharmaceuticals and that drug was um had their interim analysis in february of 2020. and they were told to give up the study it's futile it's not working and they spent well over a hundred million dollars on it so we're the only breakthrough therapy for ptsd still standing and so in march we were told don't add anybody it's going great you've got a 90 or greater probability of success and at at least the medium effects now that's right around the time covet hit and we got uh lockdowns and shutdowns and so research wasn't happening anymore for a while so fda contacted not just us but other sponsors of research that were well underway and they said we would be willing to negotiate with you to end the study early and so that's a little bit of a concern because the fewer people you have in your study the less likely you are to get statistical significance right but not having enough people in your study you know and then everybody's worried that it's now it's a different world everybody's more anxious because of ptsd because of covid i mean you know compounded with their ptsd economic problems you know so we negotiated with fda that we would end the study with 90 people instead of 100. the last data point we got was in august and so in about three weeks we're going to know whether our first study was statistically significant which means that whether it's successful or not we have started enrolling in our second phase three study so i just want to say to those people that are listening that may either have ptsd or knows people that have ptsd you go to clinicaltrials.gov and you put in mdma and ptsd and it'll lead to our study there's enough studies that have been completed i think ours i checked earlier was like number 17 or so of the 18 studies that have been listed there and that'll tell you all the sites that the studies are taking place whether they're open for screening or not so people could volunteer if they have ptsd and it's completely free and now have people get the control group right but the way we've set it up is that once the study is all over those people that were in the control group can go through it again for free and get the therapy with mdma right well they got therapy with placebo that's generous of you guys that's cool well we think first off it's useful to us the data you know yeah but also it's to help uh enroll and recruit subjects help help them not drop out to know if they finish when it's over they can get mdma and it's also going to be um it was important that we have a control group because we want to see what are the safety problems coming from just treating people with ptsd because we work the hard cases yeah and unlike a lot of studies we let in people that have previously attempted suicide um they can't be actively suicidal but but if they've attempted suicide in the past they're welcome why exclude those people that need it the most yeah totally so are we talking um 2021 or 2022 when this could actually be in a psychotherapist's office after they get trained well the the other part is that we negotiate with fda for what's called expanded access which is compassionate use which runs concurrent with phase three you can't slow down phase three so we've actually got approval for 50 patients for expanded access and we've set up 10 sites that are not in the cities where we have phase three so in 2021 expanded access is going to happen that's where people can pay for their own treatment it's in the clinics can provide it we are gathering funding from various people to subsidize some of the costs particularly for veterans or um minority groups that have ptsd um so i encourage people to go to the clinicaltrials.gov and you can check out over time which of our um expanded access sites open but that's a small limited thing your question was really when is it available so um we think now it depends on cobit but we think by 2022 we will be able to uh hopefully the first half of 2022 um you know less than two years from now present all the data to fda and we hope by the end of 2022 or early 2023 that the fda will approve for prescription use assuming our data justifies it and now we're trying to start research in europe as well we're just starting with multiple different um in seven different countries ten sites in seven different countries we're training the european therapists we're moving forward on that um we think if we do raise the money for europe we have to raise another 30 million for europe and globalization um but then we think europe will be the end of 2023 uh early 2024. okay wow so amazing now just because there's um limited time left i'd love to ask you about sort of psychedelic psychotherapy um mdma is technically not a psychedelic right well it depends technically um the word psychedelic means mind manifesting okay so the way that maps the multi-disciplinary association for psychedelic studies the way we define psychedelic is the original meaning of the word which is mind manifesting so your dreams are psychedelic holotropic breath hyperventilation is psychedelic there's a lot of going in a floatation thing psychedelic ketamine um but the thing with that you're pointing to is that mdma is not like the classic psychedelics mdma is fundamentally different than um lsd psilocybin ayahuasca mescaline ibogaine dmt you know these are these are all kind of ego dissolving drugs and mdma doesn't do that in that same way yeah it's more the spear reduction there's open-heartedness people do have spiritual experiences on mdma but um yeah some people say back in the 80s when the dea was trying to criminalize mdma we tried to say oh it's not like all these other psychedelics it's in a pathogen that promotes empathy or an intact agent that helps you touch within we try to make claim that it's a different thing um it ultimately uh it did not succeed and uh mdma was criminalized in 1985 by the dea but but i think that the the um the thing that you're pointing to really is it is different than the classic psychedelic yeah yeah and so i'm just for the listener here and i i think i want to um zero in on the facilitation again of it so there's um obviously in certain circles you can find someone to maybe facilitate you while doing lsd or while doing psilocybin or while doing ayahuasca sometimes they happen in group settings sometimes there's a combination sometimes there's synthetic things you know i live in boulder where these people move through town and it's kind of a mystery how to who to get connected with and um what are just some um i guess benefits to say lsd or psilocybin versus mdma yeah well what we're trying to do is legitimize an entire field of psychedelic psychotherapy absolutely so that the therapists are going to be cross-trained which with mdma with ketamine with psilocybin with lsd and so i think when people are um traumatized it's good to begin with mdma you know that when these drugs that are eco-dissolving um act on you and then as dan said lsd non-specific amplifier of the unconscious those traumas are going to be near the surface because that's what it means to have ptsd and they're going to emerge but there's no big fear reduction so actually let me show you this with those people so this is called chavity a vision okay this is an incredible book this is the first time that ever a psychedelic was used for ptsd it was a dutch psychiatrist dr bastian's and he did this in the 50s 60s 70s he was the last person in the world still into the 80s that had permission to give lsd to people and what he did was lsd for concentration camp syndrome these were people that are in the concentration camps shavity is about an israeli who survived the concentration camps became a holocaust writer went for lsd treatment and writes about his lsd treatment wow so what you see the big difference is with the classic psychedelics is they don't reduce the fear you know these experiences are very very difficult my israeli relatives knew him before and after and said it helped him a lot but he still had a lot of suffering yeah and just taking mdma doesn't mean the suffering goes away it just means that you can put it in the background instead of the foreground that's right so i think that we will start with uh mdma for ptsd other things too i think um mdma is more relational you know you're you're more ego intact you're right so md major couples therapy um i think it's going to be better than lsd or assignment for couples therapy um you know for facing death um we've done a study with uh life people have life-threatening illnesses with anxiety and depression with mdma other people have done studies with psilocybin and they all help i mean there's something about this ego dissolution that helps you sometimes get a different perspective on depth yeah make your peace with it totally to me yeah so i think what will happen in the future is that when people go to these psychedelic clinics um they will probably start with mdma that may be all that they need sometimes just for a different kind of experience maybe they'll move to lsd or psilocybin you know lsd and psilocybin are doing pretty really well for depression for addiction um a lot a lot of things about addiction too are that people feel isolated and they have traumas and they um escape in drugs yeah so there was just a study done in england by a dr ben sessa which was uh mdma for alcoholics and the theory was you reduced the trauma you reduced their need to escape in alcohol and he's now doing long-term follow-ups and he's got great results yeah psilocybin and ayahuasca and even ibogaine for opiate addiction so i i think that what we want to do is empower therapists cross train them with all the different drugs and then have them develop an individualized personalized medicine and and use a sequence of experiences the other um people thing that people need to keep in mind is that in the 50s and 60s with lsd and the psilocybin research and in the modern research with lse and psilocybin in the last 20 years there's been a similar finding you know 50 years apart you could say which is that the depth of the mystical experience is correlated with therapeutic outcomes the more you have this ego dissolution the more you feel this sense of connection and unity the more things the oneness the more things come up to the surface that you try to process the depth of the mystical experiences correlated with therapeutic outcomes for the classic psychedelics however for mdma for ptsd we use the exact same questionnaire the mystical experience questionnaire people do score remarkably high but there is no correlation between experience and healing from ptsd in our mdma group it's more about being intact with your ego and having these memories come up that happen to you or sometimes you know symbolic uh multi-generational traumas but still you're sort of there to experience it and to process it and you're moving these memories that have the uh so there's episodic memory about what happened and then there's the emotional memory that gets attached to it and so you can actually rewrite the way these memories are stored in your brain so that you can we find under mdma people's memory for the trauma is increased but they swap out this memory that it's always happening right now or that it's super painful once you've processed it then it's like okay that was part of my life as i said before you know it's in the past so i think that's an important distinction between the way mdma and classic psychedelics work and therefore in our mdma experiences we're not trying to move people in the direction of mystical experience totally support whatever happens the other thing that's important is that we have a male female co-therapy team that's our standard model so we use a two-person team not a one-person team people are very vulnerable under the influence of psychedelics when there's a two-person team they'll feel safer if it was a woman that had been raped and have just a male therapist that might be more difficult than also having a woman a lot of times people don't think men you know that they can't let out their emotions that that's somehow weak having a woman in the room somehow makes that easier sometimes um so it's both for efficacy and safety that we have a two-person team they're not always male female sometimes we have two women sometimes two men sometimes people who don't identify with any gender but where we want to end up is one of them is a trained therapist the other is an apprentice working for free to get their license yeah certainly so we want to keep the two-person team and i think that that can be uh very important if we can manage to do that and we also have eight hour sessions i mean that's another difference is that you can be very patient about people coming around to the trauma when it's an eight-hour session in their own way with their own you know sometimes they go to happy memories that give them strength to then go into a painful memory sometimes they go straight to the trauma but we don't push them and it's much different than a 45 or 50 minute hour that you have for therapy with someone totally um you know where you got to get down to the point and that's where you have all these exercises so we think though that it's initially more expensive because it's more therapy time but it will be cost effective because it's more effective and it's durable and people keep getting better on the road afterwards so cool rick i'm appreciating your kind of relational sensitivity in all your psychedelic experience and i'm curious um where that comes from and you and i'm also curious if if your marriage influenced you know being married for so long influences uh the your relational sensitivity to to sort of the healing journey yeah i think so well first off my wife and i like to try to do mdma together once a year it's tremendously helpful um you know to have a long-term relationship um you know it just makes it easier to listen and to say things um you know i did notice a little mistake i was making a couple years now we've been now um married for 27 years um and so there was a period i'd say maybe 10 years ago where i was waiting for the mdma experience to have difficult conversation right and make sense that's a total cop-out i mean the whole idea is that you should be getting better and better at having difficult experiences without the mdma uh-huh and that's what we're up and wait for the mdma so i i did notice that uh mistake that's pretty common i mean people do that with therapy or yeah anything really yeah yeah but that was a confidence i realized that but but i think that um this um you know yeah being in a long-term relationship is really helpful for those kind of understandings and um i i think this other part of it though was really just this uh you know the training that i've had with stan groff and the holotrophic breath work and in this whole approach my my understanding that i'd say one of the mistakes of the 60s actually to get this was this idea that it's a one-dose miracle cure psychedelics yeah right and so that put all the power in the psychedelics yeah you know one dozen in someone's hands not in the relationship that you have with it and so i'd say the fundamental problem with our drug war too is that we've ascribed drugs have certain powers these are good drugs these are bad drugs these are legal these are illegal the drugs are the problem when really it's the relationship and so that's why we need to move to a whole new drug policy with legal access to these drugs and focus on the relationship because even psychedelics are just tools they can talk about with recreational they can be harmful but if you see psychedelics as a tool that can be used wisely or can be used poorly that it's the relationship you establish with it that's the most important thing um the best example of that with fda just by the way i'll be super quick because i know we're running out of time is thalidomide thalidomide was the quintessential bad drug it was used by women for morning sickness um it caused birth defects terrible birth defects of short limbs and um the the only woman the the only person at the fda that ever won the presidential medal of honor was a woman named francis kelsey who blocked the litomite from coming into the u.s it was approved in europe and she just wasn't comfortable with the safety and then she got this presidential medal of honor decade or so uh two decades later thalidomide is now a medicine accepted by the fda for a certain kind of cancer and leprosy and there's a whole host of procedures to make sure that it never ends up in a pregnant woman patient registries pharmacist education but but that just emphasizes that if the relationship you have with the drug that matters this was used in a way that caused horrific birth defects but now it's a medicine helping save people's lives and it's the same drug so cool two last questions um one is you know i participated in a number of ayahuasca ceremonies over the years and that's a medicine where it seems like in a traditional setting it's like you're really supposed to just be with the medicine be with yourself right with like kind of very little any kind of facilitation before after or during and i see more and more people and over the years of being in these communities i saw more and more people get a little blown out and um i'm just curious if you if you see that and if there's a much kind of better way to use that medicine for a westerner especially um because i i see the lack of integration i would have these mad amazing mystical experiences and then days later i'd be depressed and i couldn't integrate it and i was on my own right um so i'm just curious what your thoughts are on that yeah well one of the most important things that we need to explore is going to be group therapy you know and and how do we do that so they we actually were trying a bunch of people with ptsd do go down to um south america for ayahuasca for ptsd and so we we tried to work with the churches in the u.s the unaided vegetal and the santo diami that are legal and say could we do observational study of ptsd patients coming to your services and then we'd watch them before and after and what the udb said is no you can't do that because it's all about the spiritual experience and if it's healing it comes from the spiritual experience we're not going to focus anything on healing and then the santo diami said no because they thought that um their services were not sufficiently supportive for people with real major ptsd so i think that's what what you're finding yeah you're bringing to so i think that a lot of times people are unprepared um in these ayahuasca ceremonies for the they don't get the support that they need they don't get the preparation they don't get the integration um but a lot of times it can be helpful for people but i think that even when i do group therapy one of the things that we're thinking about is that everybody should have an individual experience with mdma every ptsd patient should have an individual experience with mdma before they do it in a group that's good but so they're not i think the challenge is that um one of the things that we're noticing too that the way that people heal from ptsd is they reframe their story they tell a new story yeah so when they're telling the story to the therapists they're telling it to themselves too yeah and so if there's not enough opportunity to tell your story to the therapist you're not going to be um integra anchoring it in your own mind in the same way so um on the other hand group therapy will be less expensive um so how do we take advantage of groups but um so i but i also think that there's a lot of traveling uh shamans you know that come for ceremonies and then they take a certain amount of money for everybody for the ceremony and then they're gone to the next one and they don't pay any attention to integration correct i i think that's dangerous because really you stir things up and then you leave yeah now a lot of times most of the times hopefully people will be fine they can integrate themselves but the integration process is absolutely crucial vital and for long-term benefits or even to avoid church and problems so um i do worry about um these kind of settings and so i would say that more and more what's happening is that we have the psychedelic integration list on the maps website and there's also a group called psychedelic.support so these are therapists that are comfortable with psychedelics um but you know it's illegal to offer psychedelics so they offer preparation and integration for people that have had their own psychedelic experience cool yeah i i just encourage again people that are listening if they have had these kind of experiences that they've had difficult time integrating or if they want to prepare more thoroughly um the psychedelic integration list on the maps website or psychedelic.support um i think those are important resources that are happening more and more that are being available more and more yeah cool thanks it's validating all right last question um i often uh ask all my guests that this question which is one of our missions is to reach a million teens and young adults with relationship education get our young people more relationally connected and and i'm curious if i had a room full of say a thousand teens and young adults uh and you were whispering in my ear and i could only share with them one thing about kind of advice for relationships and life what would you want me to share with them um well i'll say two things the first thing i would say is mdma would be great for you to try in a relationship or even by yourself i just was so awkward in my adolescence i could barely talk to girls i you know if i just think if i'd done mdma when i was uh or misfit or you know 12 or 13 or 14 or 15 i would have way better time in high school because i wouldn't have been so scared and shy and i've been able to express my emotions yeah um and and actually the fda is saying that if we succeed in adults we have to work with traumatized adolescents 12 to 17 year olds so so the first thing i would say is that i i really think that adolescence is a great time um under a supervised safe situation with safe drugs so this is in the future you can whisper triumphant but but the other thing i would say about a relationship is that um give what you want to get basically if you want to get love give love you know be loved express it and that instead of thinking that it's only going to come from somebody else to you that if you um offer it if you give it you have it you are living in love and and you are more likely to get that back yeah so i i would say you know give out love give what you want be kind if you want kindness be kind and if you want to be a good listener you know if you want somebody to listen to you be a good listener to them uh and i i'd say that's probably the the main thing yeah awesome and i'm assuming you've you've given such advice maybe to your kids your own kids like would you encourage you know well when our okay this is a bigger story a bigger topic but let's just say the cultures that have successfully integrated psychedelics the native american church with peyote the ayahuasca churches they don't have age limits they let their i went to a native american peyote ceremony for a friend's wedding uh navajo indian brought his nine-year-old son and he stayed up all night with us he took smaller amounts of peyote but i think that um when i was 13 i had a bar mitzvah and i was so deeply disappointed that it didn't turn me into a man i thought this rite of passage would do something and i just was left empty i mean i got a bunch of good presents so i wasn't empty-handed really yeah but i didn't mean that's a spiritual thing so what i felt was um that i was ready at 13 to have some kind of spiritual experience so when our kids turned 13 my wife and i said to them if you want marijuana or you want mdma come to us and we'll give it to you and you can do with us and and so ironically that turned out to be the best anti-drug strategy that we could have thought of the idea that these kids were like oh yeah do drugs with my mother and father but it also made it so it wasn't a symbol of rebellion right they went to these drugs later than some of their friends and our daughter when she was almost 16 she came to us and she said i would like to smoke pot and i want to do it for the first time with you yeah it was fantastic it was beautiful yeah that's so cool you know i think they've all done all of our kids all three of our kids have done mdma they've done it with friends or in relationships um i i think the yeah yeah they have done it in some celebratory context as well sure but i i felt that um one of the worst parts of the drug war is that it makes it so parents are not honest with their children in a lot of cases i still have friends that hide the fact they smoke pot from their kids yeah right i mean it's absurd and so you you've got this drug war that that kind of makes parents frightened about um being honest with their own kids and yeah and they're double standard and then they're confirming all adolescents like yeah see you can't trust adults anyway because they're just full of [ __ ] yeah and then you sneak off to do pot and they figure it out anyway i know they're pretty smart these kids yeah well rick where thanks so much again for your time and all your heart and uh trailblazing here where can folks donate to maps and find you well um so um i'm at ricketmaps.org so or ask maps if they got general questions ask maps at maps.org maps.org is where people can check out enormous amount of information on our website and that's also where they can donate and we have had this sort of um we've got about 3 000 members every year that donate um and so we'd like to build that up so we are trying to uh particularly you know now that there's things that are going on like denver making mushrooms the lowest enforcement priority oakland ann arbor is doing that the oregon psilocybin initiative there's more reasons to have larger memberships because there's now sort of an expression of political support for certain drug policy reform things so absolutely very much like to increase our membership we have um a newsletter that we mailed to members um we do put it up for free on the website too but maps.org is where you have an enormous amount of information we encourage you to consider joining awesome rick thanks so much man it was great meeting you and connecting yeah and thanks to will for uh connecting us yeah totally thanks will yeah awesome good to have a new friend on the path here thank you yeah terrific and maybe one day we'll do um more of these mdma for couples therapy studies and we can talk just about that yeah i would love that okay awesome go to maps.org to find out more about rick doblin and if you want to donate for example to maps please do that it really helps them get the psychedelics that are safe in a safe controlled setting into treatment clinics across the planet and i feel really really excited about this yeah okay action step um let's do mild and spicy here mild would be to just share this podcast with someone who could handle it maybe and talk about it and uh debrief like huh is this something i want to do someday um is this legitimate like what do i think about what he said and i just have a discussion i think that's really valuable if you want to turn up the heat a notch then i would you know encourage you to maybe do something legal like go to a holotropic breath work experience i think that's the most accessible thing here if you don't want to go outside the lines of what's legal currently um i i just didn't really encourage the holotropic breath work stuff i think it's really cool and then if you have ptsd i just want to encourage you to look up on map's website follow the instructions that rick outlined and apply to be a client and see if you can work through some of your ptsd we've done a couple episodes around ptsd i hope they've been helpful for you and the results they're seeing with ptsd patients clients are pretty unbelievable with mdma um and they're getting closer as rick said to making that a reality and legal so that any of us can go to a clinic and receive this kind of treatment it's it's very promising and my friends here in boulder at the integrative psychiatric institute are doing ketamine-assisted psychotherapy which is another place you could look in your local city those clinics are popping up all over the place and that's totally legal so you might check out ketamine assisted psychotherapy and yeah i'm just psyched that this is happening in the world i think it's going to help all of us a lot okay come join our community school dot com forward slash community if you want to join our free facebook group and if you are still wanting to check out our conflict event where you can actually learn two days with me live virtual over zoom come play with us relationship school dot com forward slash connected all right okay everybody thanks again and we'll talk very soon hey thanks so much for listening please subscribe to this youtube channel share one of these videos with a friend we want to help the planet get their act together around relationships and you are one of them so thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 6ClPE7lLqsc (https://youtu.be/6ClPE7lLqsc) ===

There's roughly 9 to 10 million people in America that have PTSD. And there's many, many millions of them that are severe, chronic,
treatment-resistant PTSD. And what that means is that
there are a lot of people that have posttraumatic stress disorder for whom the currently
available medications and psychotherapies don't work. (gentle soothing music) - I think the world, in
general, is overwhelmed and our available treatment
options are limited and can only reach so many people. And I think psychedelics hold a promise for bringing a lot more healing to larger numbers of people. MDMA-assisted psychotherapy is unique among trauma treatments, in that it allows the participants, or the patients to access their traumas in a way that they aren't overwhelmed by their past experiences. They can address their
fear around their trauma. - I started MAPS in 1986 as a non-profit psychedelic
pharmaceutical company with the goal of taking MDMA through the regulatory system to make it into a prescription medicine. Now we're at this point where, 32 years after MAPS was started, we're about to start Phase 3. And Phase 3 is the
final stage of research to make a drug into a medicine, to prove safety and efficacy. (light piano music) - We completed six Phase 2 clinical trials. We see over time that symptoms improve after MDMA-assisted psychotherapy immediately after a few treatments, but then when we follow up 12 months later, we see that even a greater number of participants no longer meet criteria for PTSD. (light piano music) - In August of 2017, we got Breakthrough Therapy
designation from the FDA for the most promising drugs and then since that point
we've been doing fundraising and training of more therapists. We anticipate by 2021, that MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD will be available legally by prescription. - What I learned from my
experience in the MDMA training study as a participant, is that people with PTSD, and people who don't have
PTSD, aren't that different. In the right conditions, the psyche moves towards wholeness. The psyche moves towards healing. Basically what we want
to do is to mainstream psychedelic medicine
and make that available to people who have a wide range of clinical indications,
and with your help, together, we can do it. (gentle soothing music)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: kIOI9TNdMHk (https://youtu.be/kIOI9TNdMHk) ===

[Music] you're in your little space shuttle i i yeah it's so good here this is my uh my attic where i hang out good audio gotta love those uh dampened spaces i've i've discovered a newfound love for carpet since i've become a podcast host wow yeah does very well are you uh coming from boston yeah yeah i'm right outside of boston in a place called belmont cool um we'll we'll get right in this um i want to be super respectful of your time i just want to give you a quick background on me before we get in it um as i mentioned i don't know if you got the email uh i was talking to chris ryan and jim faddeman who are good buddies of mine who both say hello and a big hug to you um so i have a background in environmental journalism and documentary film over the last couple of years i fell into the world of podcasting um and became really good friends with chris ryan who has his own very popular podcast um we together co-created a a satirical awards show uh which uh was named pardon the french but it was named the [ __ ] awards where we celebrated corporations that screwed mother earth and it was a whole satirical awards show where we got um journalists like matt taibi to present awards to um banks like jpmorgan chase and then we got famous comedians to go up as the ceos as fictitious ceos of these corporations and give acceptance speeches on their behalf so i have a background in journalism and then activism um and just recently became the editor-in-chief at mudwater because it's one of the the good guys out there um telling stories that uh we think are important so i'm really happy to be here with you i'm super familiar with your work um and that's a bit about me i'm an avid surfer as well oh great job that sounds wonderful yeah i've tried surfing uh just a few times and it's uh it's not that easy to learn yeah now i um i wrote an article once about psychedelics and said that psychedelics are a lot like learning to surf if you have an instructor and you go out in small seas it's a relatively safe experiment experience but if you go out on a huge swell by yourself that's kind of on you and most people don't treat surfing or psychedelics with the same respect that they deserve that's a good good comparison yeah well let's get uh right into it i wanted to start off with asking you about this quote um and see what it means to you and how it's informed your life the quote is who believes that the law is unjust and breaks it willingly suffering the consequences to be an example for others actually has the highest regard for the law martin luther king what does that quote mean to you and how has it informed your life well it means a lot to me and there's two different ways that it means things to me first off i was a vietnam war draft resistor and so i spent a lot of time trying to think about how i would respond to the draft and you know i turned 18 in 1971 so i was near the end of the lottery and there were a lot of different ways that people were objecting to the draft some some were um you know getting their draft cards and burning their draft cards some were running away to canada some were pretending to be crazy some were pretending to be gay you know all the different things that people do some people shot themselves in the foot some people pretended to have bone spurs you know people did all sorts of things like that so i studied a lot of non-violent resistance gandhi tolstoy martin luther king thoreau just a whole lot and so what that quote means to me is that better than running away but what i ended up my strategy was to figure out how to drain the most energy from the system and to be willing to go to jail so i purposely chose that i would um be open to going to jail and and by draining the most energy of the cyst from the system that led to the conclusion that i should not even register for the draft that the very first step where you collaborate is that you make it easier for them because you put your name on a list now i was paying taxes you know i had a social security number uh i was in high school you know i just assumed that they had my birthday thing that i would be caught and as it turned out the strategy was the best possible one i could have chosen in a way because absolutely nothing happened for not registering for the draft and so but that led me when i was 18 at that time to decide to be an underground psychedelic therapist and go through my own psychedelic psychotherapy because my father was saying he didn't want me to go to vietnam he was supportive of my willingness to go to jail but he said you're going to be a felon you're never going to be able to have a career that involves a license because you'll be disqualified and i was like okay that's a price i'm going to have to pay i'm not willing to go to vietnam in order to get a certain kind of job and then i thought aha you know i can be an underground psychedelic therapist you don't need a license for that so that quote has been fundamentally um important to me in my early on strategy and at that time i identified as you know counterculture drug using criminal because not just because of the drug law but also because i was thinking to go to jail the second thing that that's really surprised me about this particular quote from martin luther king was something that i didn't learn about for almost another 15 years and that's when i decided to do for my new college a senior thesis doing a long-term follow-up to the good friday experiment so the good friday experiment was done by timothy leary walter panke and 1962 this tremendous experiment about whether psychedelics could produce religious experiences and it took 20 divinity students from andover theological seminary into boston university chapel and it was a harvard phd and they went through a good friday experiment and um all of them got a pill halfways placebo half was nicotinic accident and the minister was reverend howard thurman who was this incredibly dynamic uh black uh minister um and it turned out that howard thurman had been martin luther king's mentor when martin luther king got a phd at boston university and also howard thurman had spent time with gandhi and he was one of the principal advisors for the non-violent resistance strategy of the civil rights worker so we hear a lot about john lewis and bloody sunday and a lot of these people learned from reverend thurman about this non-violent approach and i think that's what really helped them make a lot of progress so when i went to the marsh chapel just to see now this is in the middle 80s to just see where the good friday experiment took place there's a statue an art exhibit sort of a statue in front of the marsh chapel dedicated to martin luther king and on the side of that statue is that quote from martin luther king so it was an inspiration for me when i was younger to help me you know decide to be a draft resister and then later on as i'm doing psychedelics and got into that there's that same quote again and then the the connecting link is howard thurman who was martin luther king's advisor so i do think that we have to have our own internal morality and that we can't rely on the outside laws to provide that they can be guidance but we have to have our own internal moral compass and a lot of times things that are legal are immoral you know voter suppression and a lot of the nazis made quote legal laws yeah yeah we have all sorts of laws that are immoral um so anyway i i wonder how it is that you decided to ask that question about that quote you know it was uh by total chance i had no idea that you even knew about the quote really no no okay see i'm pretty gullible no i i heard that it was an important quote in your life given your involvement in the 1960s there's the civil rights movement there is the women's rights movement environmental movement like there's this real shift in consciousness and a lot of people would argue that the environmental movement specifically was the result of the psychedelic movement what parallels do you see from the 1960s to today when we have black lives matter this new renaissance in psychedelic studies um what do you see as parallels as well as um places that are are different in your mind having lived through both periods yes um so i i i do believe that a lot of the motivation that people got for working in the environmental movement for even civil rights women's rights anti-vietnam war you know we see this from the beatles and all was was there psychedelic experiences which i think don't always but can enable people to have this transcendence of the ego this sense of connection this unity this so we're all in it together you know same thing that the astronauts get from going up to space and looking back down the overlook or the overview effect they call you see that we're all one planet you can you can feel that about all the universe you know this this it's all one thing it's all this energy all interconnected it's all in motion um and so i do think that a lot of the um impetus for some of the challenging of the status quo in the 60s came from and was inspired by people's psychedelic experiences um we're i think at a very dynamic time in world history right now where the environmental crisis is worse than it's ever been um we see a rise of uh racism nationalism authoritarianism uh you know there's a lot of um parallels between the area eras what i would say though is the differences is that when the psychedelic research and and sort of broadening use of psychedelics in society really happened in the 60s the culture was just emerging from world war ii and the 50s and it was really much more resistant to kind of the insights of the psychedelic experience so to continue on this discussion about the beatles you know they bring maharishi mahesh yogi who is the one that invented or developed transcendental meditation so you get these guys in robes from india that come over to teach meditation and there was just an enormous resistance these are weird strange people and meditation itself was not as widely appreciated you know now um we have mindfulness and it's you go everywhere we talk about mindfulness but at the time um really meditation was kind of a new thing um yoga even was a new thing in widespread sort of popular awareness and people were saying that if you do yoga you're going to be um becoming a a hindu or a you know some other religion it's going to be bad for you you know it's a threat to christianity into american judeo-christian thing to do yoga also in the 60s death was something that was much suppressed people didn't talk about it you know if you had cancer people hid it from other people um the first hospice wasn't until 1974. so this idea of death and ego death and death rebirth cycles that was challenging to the society birth at the time women were tranquilized men were not allowed in the delivery room um you know we we've since changed our attitudes towards birth towards death towards yoga towards meditation towards mysticism so the culture has evolved also if you look at art and media there's so much psychedelic imagery that you see all the time you know this sort of going into these sort of wormholes and tunnels and all this kind of stuff that you can have the inner visuals when you're on psychedelics that that has now become part of art and movies in our culture so i think that the crises are um in some ways you know arguably greater at the time in the 60s we just had the cuban missile crisis and so it was also the height of the cold war and we had the the potential of nuclear annihilation which we're not that far away from now we still have that potential but you know people don't worry about it as much um but i think that we are arguably at even a more crisis place it's clear that humanity's trajectory is towards uh destruction of the environment and and and the globalization is bringing people together but people are some people are are seeing that other people are retreating from that into fundamentalism and authoritarianism so i i do think that for those reasons that the society is better prepared and whether the need is as great or greater now than before that we have a much better chance to succeed in the integration of psychedelics into culture now than before and the fundamental thing that's different is that we're not self-identifying as a counterculture the psychedelic community was a counter culture and it was let's go back to the land and let's build these communes and let's you know leave turn on uh you know tune in drop out now we're talking about mainstreaming psychedelics and we have uh for-profit psychedelic companies traded on the stock exchanges where we didn't have before so i'm very hopeful about the potential to succeed in integrating psychedelics into culture at the same time that i'm uh more concerned about the dangerous situation that we're in in the 1960s you had intellectuals like noam chomsky that were speaking truth to power you had the beatles who were kind of making it irresistible for even hard-line you know 1950s uh people it was making he was making it irresistible for them to get involved there was it seemed a real intellectual renaissance as a weapon of love and unity um do you see that today and the i'll kind of underscore it with this point because do you worry at all about anti-intellectualism today as a a possible real threat to the movement oh my god so let's talk about q and on and let's talk about uh election [Music] fantasies about trump winning the election or about the denial of the dangers of the covet or even about climate change denialism so we are on the verge of this massive massive denial of reality and irrationality and people being motivated by irrational factors tribalism and irrational factors so i i think that's tremendously dangerous right now and we just saw an insurrection in the capital just um a few minutes ago trump got impeached for the second time for stirring up on the basis of irrational lies and um getting people to to not think logically so i think we have an enormous crisis of people being um motivated by irrational factors and not thinking logically uh you know and these irrational factors humans are actually um you could say kind of a thin veneer of rationality over these irrational parts of our history that have taken us you know tens of thousands of years and so so that it's a dangerous situation and humanity itself as the way that we process ideas the way that our irrational factors are so important um that could destroy us destroy the world destroy democracy so i'd say that that's the the biggest factor so and that's where we get into psychedelics and our goal of mass mental health because a lot of these people are operating the fear and the anxiety you could say the reptilian brain is overwhelming their uh rationality because their world is dissipating you know that they're i mean even before covid what we heard was that around half of americans could not handle a 500 emergency expense so if you can imagine what it's like to live under that kind of stress and pressure and we've had these exaggerated views of libertarianism of freedom that have made it so the collective safety net you know in many cases doesn't exist look at the whole effort of the republicans to trash the affordable care act you know it wasn't that they were going to give us a better health care system you know trump has never proposed a better system so we we have both people living on the edge culture changing jobs changing and a lot of these same people but other people as well trying to eliminate the social safety net so when people are on that edge of uh anxiety they are prey to irrational factors and so we could go back to um abraham maslow and humanistic psychology and transpersonal psychology a lot of people in their um psychology classes even in high school you know have learned about the hierarchy of needs that's shown as this pyramid and you've got your survival needs and your you know and it moves up and up and up your your needs for self-esteem for belonging for um purpose and meaning and then it's a lot of people think about it as self-actualization is the top and and that's that was true up until the last few years of abraham maslow's life where he started encountering psychedelic research and other people with non-ordinary and non-ordinary states of consciousness research and so it turned out that he modified this hierarchy of needs to um at the top is now above self-actualization is self-transcendence so it's it's moving to you could say this bodhisattva kind of thing that you are there to help others so all of this is just to say that when your base survival needs are not met it's harder for you to pay attention to these other needs and so we we now have a lot of people that are economically dislocated even more now because of covid and it's out of that sense of a lack of vision for their future or a vision for their future of their children that people are able to be motivated by irrational factors and that's a tremendous danger i was reading an article recently about the ptsd tsunami that we're likely to see as a result of covet and ptsd impacts the brain in various ways so there's reduced activity in the prefrontal cortex which is where we think logically reduced activity in the hippocampus long-term memory lives there and hyperactive response in the amygdala which processes fear can you walk me through um yeah the process of how ptsd impacts the brain and how mdma also interacts with that yeah so i i guess one of the veterans that was in our study our phase ii study for mdma assisted psychotherapy for ptsd said ptsd changed my brain and mdma changed it back right so the factors that you have just discussed um in the brain the hyperactive amygdala the reduction of activity in the prefrontal cortex the reduction effect of connectivity but with the hippocampus so that what you have is these traumatic memories that um actually themselves are rewiring the brain you end up having more activity in certain areas you can have more neural connective certain kind of pathways certain sounds that might remind one of something that was uh in battle or something like that the the fact that the logical part of the brain is diminished in activity there's not a lot of processing to say that's just a car backfire or that's just a door slam or you know i'm not in a situation where there's bombs falling or guns firing so we have people that end up where the past has so um subsumed the present the present is you're not living in the present you're living in the past you're living with this sense that the trauma is about to happen again or is still happening or you're always on guard or you can so what mdma does and and i'm not to say that this is only from mdma you can get this from really good psychotherapy sometimes sometimes people need more than psychotherapy that's what we have proved in our research that some people can get better from psychotherapy but a lot of people it's too painful their memories they need some help so the mdma reduces activity in the amygdala so that it really has this ability to help people to have these fearful memories without the fearful emotions also mdma enhances people's activity in the prefrontal cortex so we are more logical we can and we can tell ourselves a different story and at the same time there's more connectivity between the amygdala and the hippocampus so that these memories from the past that have never been fully processed and put into long-term storage can now be put into long-term storage so that they're happening then but not now and there's a whole process of fear extinction and memory reconsolidation what that means is that when you can extinguish the fear of certain kind of memories then when you reconsolidate the memory when you put it back you you are swapping out the new emotion with the old emotion so we see people's memory for the trauma is enhanced they have a better sense of what actually happened to them but when they remember it again after the therapy they remember that they had processed it it's in the past the other thing that mpma does that's i think very important to notice is the um release of oxytocin and oxytocin is the love hormone the nursing mothers when you're when people are in love and it's something that permits self-acceptance self-love so while you have all of this reduction in fear about difficult emotions what mdma does is it helps people to accept themselves so if i had to you know condense what everything what mdma does it's self-acceptance and and because you are accepting yourself you can look at your flaws or you can listen to people share with you their opinions on you that's why it's so good for couples therapy because you're not so defensive your your sense of self is not so vulnerable you've accepted yourself that you have this sort of self love self compassion and i think that's a key part of what mdma does and there's been a neuroscientist at johns hopkins uh gul dolan who has done studies in mice and shown that mdma produces release of oxytocin in mice but it doesn't end there it produces new neural connections and so you are actually helping to rewire your brain you can and that's where the importance of the integration afterwards you can have these experiences and start a process but you if you don't try to reinforce it after the drug is gone it might just fade but if you have both the preparation the experience and the integration then you can make these really long-term changes with a relatively short-term intervention do you think that self-acceptance is largely due to a new story that you're telling about yourself no i don't think so i i think that the self-acceptance is more biologically mediated and then once you have the self-acceptance then you can tell a new story and um so here i'll give you an example and this is just such a um a good example which was um one of the vets in our study was uh back from via from iraq had terrible um ptsd and the story was that um the warrior self of from iraq when he came back that he had to put it in a cage you know that this was and his problem was rage he had problems with with very quick rage he never beat up his wife but you know through things and he had this problem with rage so under the influence of mdma he was able to say to himself um and and do this in imagery and metaphor and so while his eyes closed listening to music he's having this sense that there's this gorilla type with uh blood red eyes evil eyes locked in a cage inside him and that that's his part of himself and that he realized that he's um he didn't trust with that person that part of him could do from what happened in iraq but that he could um he wasn't making it any better by keeping this in the cage he had so they had all these images of this gorilla reaching through the bars of the cage stabbing with a knife in the side he would take the knife out and then he would unlock the cage and then he would make friends with this part of himself and that was the new story that that he could negotiate in a sense with these split off parts of himself and that he could re-embrace them and that was his first mdma session and he never had a problem with rage again he still had other work to do to get over ptsd fully but i think that this self-acceptance comes first and then comes the new story and the self-acceptance you say is um due to the biological effect so the the impact that mdma can have on the brain which can allow that new story to come through after yeah and once the mdma is gone once you've got this new story it can sustain it can persist it can be durable another example is just um which i told during my ted talk but um i think it's worth repeating just in this idea of a new story another veteran very much um debilitated for like six seven years with ptsd couldn't do anything and under mdma he realized that um the suffering that he was going through had a positive side which is that that was the way in which he showed loyalty the way he honored his friends who had died because he was sad about it right but then under the influence of mdma he was thinking about his friends who had died and then he was able to make this transition to being inside their heads looking at him so now he's at his dead friend's eyes looking out at the world through his dead friend's eyes and seeing himself and realizing that they were unable to live they would not want him to squander his life by suffering perpetually and being unable to function and he said there's a new way for me to honor my friends which is to move forward and live as fully as i can they can live through me they don't and so that was that quick story that i'm honoring my friends there's a different way to do it and then he said um what am i going to do with the rest of my life and then he also realized that he was um using opiates for pain and he said i don't think i need these opiates anymore and i'm not no i'm not so sure i'm using them for pain i'm using them for escape and he said i don't need drugs anymore and he dropped out of the study after one session and that's about i just heard from him a week ago that's almost uh eight nine years ago and he's fine and he hasn't done more mdma and so it was that story but i think it it came from um yes the the power of mdma to help him see things in a different way so that he can rewrite re-write his life story there have been various healing circles in other cultures for thousands of years shamans using ayahuasca many of these shamanic rituals are done in a group setting have you done any research on the impacts of mdma therapy in a group setting and is that at all do you see any potential in that reason i'm laughing is that we've done research at burning man we've done research at my college you know where we'd have all my dance parties um um so informally we have done all sorts of group work but formally um and we i don't mean maps this was other ways but um i think what you're pointing to is super important so that we are now in the process of designing group therapy studies um we're working with a dr christopher who was at uc san francisco worked with individuals with mdma for ptsd now he's a portland oregon va and so we're working with him on a protocol for a group a group therapy study um what i've learned about some of the group therapy treatment programs that the veterans have been offered is that they often have individual sessions where they talk about the specific trauma and then the groups are about talking about your diet talking about exercise talking about different things but they have reserved the psychotherapy about the actual trauma for individual sessions so we would like to see um you know are there ways to um sort of combine these approaches so the protocol that we're thinking of for group therapy which we again when you do this stuff with fda with with people with severe ptsd you have to start in a very cautious way so we would have to start with um group preparation you know what what's going on then we would have individual preparation then we would have an individual session then we would have individual integration then we have group integration then we have group preparation and a group session and then we have um group integration so that's going to be how we would start it now one part and i think it's so important what you talked about before about the story so you need to rewrite your story and so what we see in a lot of the mdma individual therapy is people are they have these experiences and then when they talk to the therapists they're rewriting their story and a lot of the story comes from the quiet times when they're having their own inner experience and that's where they're rewriting the story and then then it gets reinforced when they tell to the therapists my concern is that when we have group therapy it may where it very well be that people have less time to rewrite their story you're in a more social setting so you're not necessarily doing this kind of deep rewriting your personal story so even when we have a group setting it may be that for the first couple hours people are eyes closed listening to music and then later they're interacting with each other so i i think that the financial pressure that we're going to get to make this affordable to more people um group therapy is one of the main ways that we're going to try to explore to do that um and there are certain things where group therapy might even potentially be more effective you know when you see a group of people are struggling with the same thing you're struggling with maybe that can help you not feel so isolated alone um but i i am concerned that um the group therapy setting may not be quite as good as the individual setting but if the group setting is 80 as good but 20 the cost you know then that's the way to roll it out and then those individuals that need more could have one individual session or something like that are you doing any active studies on combining mdma therapy with other modalities like emdr um so far no not with emdr but so i what we do is um you know drug development research uh you know maps does science but um i like to say that we actually do political science you know meaning that we have to be very strategic about what we do and so a part of that strategy was to look at those people that have developed other non-drug psychotherapies for ptsd particularly those that are connected with the veterans administration but world experts all over the world on ptsd and then approach them and instead of saying oh what you've got helps a certain people but it's limited and mdma is better what we've said to them is we want you to learn about mdma we have a method that's our treatment method it's manualized you go to the maps website you can get our treatment manual describes our method but we've gone to people that have developed prolonged exposure cognitive processing therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy in particular cognitive behavioral conjoined therapy where it's two people one has ptsd it affects the relationship and we have offered to fund studies that would pay them to do research blending mdma with their existing non-drug psychotherapies so that is we we've completed this study with mdma with cognitive behavioral conjoined therapy that was just a small treatment development study we're great and now they're trying to do fundraising get ready to do a larger controlled study we're also very close covet if coveted wouldn't have happened we would have started studies blending mdma with prolonged exposure and also with cognitive processing therapy there is a whole group of studies that what we're calling not maps sponsored studies but iits which stands for investigator-initiated trials and there's a an old friend of mine who uh kate hawk who is interested in blending mdma with emdr um there's one sort of story i'll say on this though is that um edna foa who developed prolonged exposure 2009 we were at a conference together with michael mintov our lead psychiatrist myself and we were telling her about mdma and she said um mdma is dynamite in the brain neurotoxicity blah blah blah you know it's i want nothing to do with it and then she said um forget about it virtual reality will be better yeah so at the conference uh there was um skip rizzo who was an expert in vr for ptsd funded by the military i went over to him and i said edna says mdma is terrible you know we should look at group at vr and he just started laughing and he said if you have mdma you don't need vr okay now at the foa is working with us she has now come around and she's gonna do a study with mdma blending with prolonged exposure can you just back up what is prolonged exposure oh so prolonged exposure is this idea that if you are scared of something if you repeat over and over what happened eventually you get desensitized to it so if you tell your story 100 times the theory is that it no longer triggers you as much however there's a high dropout rate a lot of people find it re-traumatizing so prolonged exposure just means you expose people to the trauma story over and over and over they have homework they have to do it every night this whole kind of situation um you know cognitive processing therapy cognitive behavioral therapy are not so much on exposing people to the trauma but it's like what triggers you and how do you can you logically separate out that this isn't something that needs to trigger you or how do you um handle anxiety what different ways can you so so there's different therapeutic approaches and i i think that there what we found at least with the cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy is that the exercises that you do in that they're really pretty good and that you can do them before as preparation as part of integration but it's turning out that the actual mdma session is looking more and more like our inner directed session without scripted let people go wherever they go whatever they want to talk about let them decide how much time they spend eyes closed listening to music when they talk to the therapists you know it's sort of um they lead and we follow that's why we don't use the word that the therapists are not guides it implies that the therapists know where to go you know [Music] very briefly to illustrate that there was um another israeli who was um part of uh had ptsd and the issue was that a bunch of his um fellow soldiers had gotten killed all right and so as it turned out as that was coming up he said you know but they were really helpless they were killed in their sleeping bags by an infiltrator and um and they were helpless and then he switched to when i was young my father used to beat me up and i felt helpless and this so that was the original trauma and then the later trauma was hard for him to process because it linked to this earlier trauma but we could never have predicted that that was something that he ended up bringing forth and that also just suggests why vr is is a challenge because how do you know internally you could have a vr story of this is what the war was like and you can turn it on off but you know this this move towards my childhood trauma underlying this other trauma it's hard to predict that so right correct me if i'm wrong on anything i'm about to say um my understanding is that uh mdma is not patentable map maps has the rights exclusive rights to do these experiments currently is that correct no not at all not at all no so data exclusivity is a different thing okay okay so i'll explain so mdma was invented by merck in 1912. and they didn't know what they had they weren't trying to get they were trying to evade a competitor's patent for something else they had a whole synthetic pathway they patented mdma so the composition of matter patent is in the public domain then you can have use patents and so we actually hired patent attorneys to help us develop an anti-patent strategy so we make it public there's stories about mdma used for all different things one example mdma for postpartum depression not a lot of people have thought about that but there have been people that have used it for that and we have a whole protocol people interested and that's now up on our website so we have a anti-patent strategy for use patents then there's what's called process patents so you can have a patent on the process for making the drug where we have unique ip intellectual property on how we made mdma in commercial quantities gmp all this kind of stuff we're going to make that public you know we're not going to try to get used patents to block anybody else or anything like that so what that meant was at least for the first um 28 years or so of maps i thought that once it was a medicine it becomes generic immediately so it was around 2013 where i learned from a patent attorney that president reagan signed a bill in 1984 to provide incentives for developing drugs that were off patent and those incentives are data exclusivity so what that means is if we succeeded making a medicine out of mdma and we generate all this data for safety and efficacy fda and other regulatory agencies say yes you can market it data exclusivity means nobody could use our data to market a generic and it will end up being for six years ten years in europe but other people if they wanted other companies merck let's say let's say mercury's like you stole our drug you know and we invented it they could make mdma into a medicine but they'd have to generate their own data so that that's why we we don't have exclusive use of mdma or exclusive research with mdma nothing like that but if we present the data for safety and efficacy that's used by regular agencies to approve the drug for marketing then we have exclusive use of that data there are companies like atai life sciences that are working on patentable derivatives of mdma do you see any issues moving forward with companies patenting derivatives for various uses no no if they invent something new it's totally within their right to patent it and if they then want to make it do a mess so yesterday there's two companies a thai and tactician so taxogen was one of the co-founders of it is matt baggett who's an old friend of mine from 30 plus years ago we were together um just the other day uh on zoom of course and what i was saying to him is that um you know we'd had a meeting with um so we now have a director of commercialization and we're trying to figure out you know um what money we might make from the sale of mdma and how do we do that and and all the money you know at present we'll just go to the mission of maps we don't have any investors 100 percent nonprofit owns the uh the benefit corporation but in terms of our commercialization plans the question was what are some of the risks and so i'm saying well one of the risks is at least for our income stream is that taxagen or a tie comes up with a better molecule than mdma and then people gravitate to that and i said we might normally look at on that as a risk but that would be fine if they do that because what is our real goal and this gets back to the very discussion at the beginning the real goal is mass mental health and if we have you know we can take credit if if we have helped open the field and moved mdma through the system and now it's motivated for-profit people to make all this investments to come up with a better drug than mdma um alter the better i don't see it as a risk on the other hand um i don't know that they're gonna do it i think you know there's uh four mmc there's methyl there's all these drugs that are kind of similar to mdma i've tried several of them and i like them a lot you know i don't think they're quite as good as mdma but you know maybe they'll improve on mdma or maybe they'll get a shorter acting take mdma and it's only two hours and now we can fit it into more of a therapy traditional therapy setting so i am in favor of those companies and if they want to patent their drugs that they've invented there's nothing wrong with that what do you see as the main risks or roadblocks to um your work becoming available to the masses um insurance coverage you know i mean it's expensive it's initially expensive because it's you can give somebody a prescription for ssris that are not that expensive but then they're they don't get that much help they have side effects you know often they take it for 10 20 years but for mdma therapy because it's therapy there's going to be an initial expense at the beginning that's more that's larger than just giving somebody um a drugs or then having them go to a therapist once a week for the next year or so you know so it's about 42 hours of therapy that we have in our program and that's three mdma sessions eight hours long and 12 90 minute non-drug psychotherapists and we use a two-person therapy team we have a meeting this friday coming up with fda about the credentials of the therapists we want one of them to be licensed as a therapist the second person we would like to be an apprentice or a student getting hours to be a therapist or or not even becoming a therapist but working at substantially less money than the first person so we want to keep the the two-person team if we can so i think insurance coverage is the biggest because what we have seen is that in the last four years one of the very few things that has gotten bipartisan support has been criminal justice system reform there is a lot less zeal for the drug war than there used to be there's a recognition of how racist it is and mass incarceration and we see that all the time so that has been the big problem in the past that you medicalize psychedelics and the drug war is sustained on demonizing drugs and demonizing drug users and now that's what we saw with medical marijuana all the resistance to medical marijuana was the drug warriors didn't want people to say good things about marijuana because it's supposed to be this terrible drug and you should be going to jail for it and so the kind of drug war ideology is i don't see it as a big barrier anymore it's still a problem but it's not as big as it used to be for widespread adoption i think that the fda is still going to be putting science first data first over drug war politics which is diminishing so for mass acceptance as a medicine is insurance coverage but on the other hand and again we're a rare non-profit or a rare psychedelic research company in that we are before drug policy reform at the same time as we are for drug development so we want people to be able to have access to mdma without having to get it from us we want licensed legalization system and you know and we want people to be able to get educated to have pure drugs honest education harm reduction policies and treatment on demand if they need it paid for by the taxes from all these people buying the drugs and using them well or in a few cases not so well so i really think that widespread adoption is um going to be limited on the one hand by whether there's insurance coverage for the treatment but we're trying to also address that through drug policy reform having people be able to get it on their own and do it themselves in groups as we talked about um in party settings recreational settings festival settings or just groups of friends so our zendo project which is psychedelic harm reduction we're expanding that now to train more and more people about how to offer peer support for people having difficult psychedelic experiences we're also doing that for first responders we have a contract now with the city of denver to train some of their first responders in zendo harm reduction because denver has made mushrooms the lowest enforcement priority and so if they encounter people with difficult mushroom trip we want them to not tranquilize them not taser them you know not arrest them not tranquilize them but you know refer them to some other people that can handle you know and within a very short amount of time a lot of times panic reactions can turn into really productive therapy settings i agree i think that the culture and the timing and the funding is all in a very special place right now that we didn't have in the 1960s i've heard michael pollan say on tim ferriss's podcast that he believes that carelessness is the great threat moving forward i don't see that as much um because we we have had um i mean carelessness is a problem right but um there are and will continue to be um careless people what i think it why it's not such a problem anymore is that we've been able to successfully educate people to say that our controlled environments in a therapeutic setting are fundamentally different than recreational settings and that the risks in these recreational settings of people um who are using these drugs maybe they're not pure drugs maybe they're using them with mixed with other things maybe they're drinking alcohol maybe they're just looking for a good time and they're not prepared when difficult stuff comes up so i think careless use is not going to derail the drug development all right um last one i want to just circle it back you've been knocking this out of the park and so generous with your time man um what impact has mud water i should just say you love mud water well i don't like it because i don't drink coffee or anything like that but my kids love it that's great well we uh love what you're doing and are happy to be a part of it and we'll we'll keep sending it to your kids they would love it yeah that was great i was really yeah they were like this is one of the good things about you you know doing your work free mud water arguably the best part of the whole development of maps was free mud water for your kids they would uh well i don't think they would agree with that but they bring up they're pretty high right right uh when i interview people on this podcast who are doing big work out in the world um i often wonder if they had some kind of vision early on and and often there's a kind of humility where it's just like i had no idea that this was ever going to turn into it i never could have expected it but when you said what you said at the beginning of our conversation struck me which was that you decided to be a draft dodger because you didn't judge the director you you drafted sorry a draft a draft resistor yes yes um what you told me was you decided to become a draft resistor because it would have the biggest impact on the system so you didn't do it from this place of thoughtlessness you did it from a very strategic place and i see the work that you've done throughout your life as highly strategic from the way that you're working with the fda to beginning with veterans for bipartisan support when you were younger did you have any kind of vision of this whole system and the way that your life would turn out well um i i i would say no what i what i had was as i was growing up um i had a series of my i had very liberal politically active parents and and that was a a key point um i had also been um you know they were financially successful as was my grandfather and they told me that they would support me in doing whatever i wanted to do but the other part of it is that i had been raised from an early age in stories of the holocaust and just the the irrational factors and how they you know often take over rationality and could end up um being my demise no matter how financially secure you are you know you could still be killed by these sorts of things so i was kind of um further traumatized by you know the cuban missile crisis and vietnam and all this so i i was raised to be political and to look at deeper threats and so i felt one but i was my parents didn't drink i believed the propaganda about drugs so for almost my entire up until the time that i was um 16 and 17 i i believed the drug war propaganda and when i first started and so most of my early childhood was trying to think about how do we deal with this um demonization of others the dehumanization the prejudice the the irrational factors how do we deal with that i was given sort of the privilege from uh generations before me of uh grandparents and great grandparents being refugees coming to america and then the american dream and making it successful and so i was given the privilege to look at deeper threats and and i i just thought that what am i gonna do with my life and so when i first started um taking psychedelics and i got this intimation beyond ego that this sense of unity and connection that i thought this is the antidote to um genocide to fundamentalism to prejudice and then was the whole situation with vietnam so i just thought i'm going to focus on the best idea that i can have it may be long-term strategy but we need mass mental health and psychedelics are a tool to that and i could be an underground therapist i never thought of oh i'm going to start a pharmacy a nonprofit pharmaceutical company or you know all of that just came out of necessity as time developed and and so it's been um kind of shocking you know where we're at now with over 100 people we've raised over 100 million dollars in donations we're on the verge of a couple years we hope to get fda approval we're trying to globalize but no when i was younger i just thought um well the vision i had to was you know i had a dream of a holocaust survivor telling me that he wanted me to be a psychedelic researcher and therapist and so that's been the animated that this is the the best response i can think of to genocide in the holocaust or to irrationality taking over did you journal any of those ideas um i did i actually found some of the journals that i had when i was 18 around that period of time i don't know now i just do emails did you keep those journals i found them yeah i found that well my mom just died in august and my father had died two years ago and so we went through the house and they had saved all these things and so there was my journals did anything strike you when you went back and read your journals from when you were 18 and came up with these initial ideas yeah i was like well that was i thought wow that makes sense even now i thought well how did you come up with those things you know you're just a young kid pretty good hell yeah man um thank you so much is our did we is there anything else that you want to say any last shout outs to the mud community yeah i would just say that um we're trying to build up team psychedelics and so we we have had a major donor strategy you know we we've needed to have such large amounts of money but we have not focused on building the base you could say building the member so we are now in a situation where we're trying to go from uh roughly 3 000 donors per year to 10 or 15 more so i would just encourage people to if they're open to supporting this come to the maps website and become a member and it's you know 50 bucks or different ways to do it but but we really want to build the community and then we want to spread information about appropriate use of psychedelics so that we can really succeed this time in integrating psychedelics not have a backlash and i think um you know reckless dangerous irresponsible use is a problem i don't think it but it's a problem for wider social acceptance so the more people could um join with us and and learn and be supports for their friends that's what we need well i just uh became a donor and signed up to uh go through a zendo uh training oh that's that's great wow that's terrific yeah so i'm really looking forward to it and uh if you and your kids ever make it out to santa cruz where i'm based uh everyone on the podcast gets a free surf lesson so we've got everything to push you into some baby little waves if uh maybe that's the next chapter in rick doblin's life well actually santa cruz is where i did try to surf before and uh found wow this is hard yeah yeah i actually went to junior high right across the street from maps at uh mission hill junior high that's fantastic yeah small world rick thank you so much man this was just a pleasure for me too kyle okay and i do have to go to another meeting but it's really great yeah [Music] [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: oUJUV9jYd98 (https://youtu.be/oUJUV9jYd98) ===

Veterans who are coming back from the war many of them feel that the psychological wounds that they are coming home with have not been successfully treated by the currently available treatments that are offered to them through the VA. They, they work for many soldiers but there are some people for whom the currently available treatments do not work and I think there's a lot of discontent by veterans who are searching for something else and MDMA-assisted psychotherapy is something that can be helpful when other treatments have failed. And what we're trying to do is work with the Veterans Administration, with the Department of Defense, so that they can integrate this as one of the tools among many that they work with vets and I think if they were to do so they would have a higher level of satisfaction and cures among the vets that they're working with. This, this study is of crucial importance to us for our negotiations and discussions with the VA and with the Department of Defense because if we can show in this small pilot study that veterans who have not been able to be helped by the currently available treatments and medicines can be assisted to lead healthier lives through MDMA therapy that, we'll be able to talk more persuasively to the VA and to the Department of Defense how this might be one of the tools that they want to add to the treatments that they offer through the formal system to the veterans that are coming back. Help complete this study Support MDMA-assisted psychotherapy research for veterans with PTSD on indiegogo
mdmaptsd.org/healingtrauma mdmaptsd.org/healingtrauma Subtitles by the Amara.org community

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 18vU92iRK6w (https://youtu.be/18vU92iRK6w) ===

these are the leaders of the Psychedelic community that you're going to see here this morning Rick's professional goal is to develop legal contexts for the beneficial uses of psychedelics and marijuana primarily as prescription medicines but also for personal growth for healthy people and eventually to become a legally licensed psychedelic therapist uh Rick and maps are one of the most instrumental groups in uh um stimulating the recent psychedelic Renaissance and I will turn you over to Rick now Rick I woke up this morning with um some messages on my phone asking me if I was okay and if my family was okay I'm from Belmont from Massachusetts and um my son was locked down at home um explosions were going off 10 minutes from our house people were getting killed um my daughter was at the marathon watching the marathon in Boston she was at Mile 20 fortunately and so to be me here with a group of people working on Technologies of peace and healing is especially meaningful to me this morning I I do think that a lot of our work is the antidote to war and to violence and that's the the big Vision that we're working towards um I'd also like to thank the map staff for doing incredible work organizing it this conference and bringing us all together this U conference has cost us over $400,000 to put on and thanks to all of you we've brought in more than that and it shows this the strength of our community that when we come together when the or the us all organizations come together we can really make enormous progress that we can't do by ourselves so it's the the strength of our community that's really the main message here I'd also like to thank deer hainbach and Lucius W Mueller from Gaia media um they were the ones that first started these large International conferences on psychedelics in the 21st century with the first one being in 2006 in basil for Albert Hoffman's 100th birthday and the second one uh being in 2008 for the world psychedelic forum and then they graciously um let us bring these to the United States and we had our psychedelic science 2010 and then psychedelic science 2013 and after this conference we're going to be handing it back to them to organize the next large conference in Europe and so I'm really glad to be able to pass the Baton back to them and have the conferences in really good shape to see what they can do next um now today is actually also the 70th anniversary of the discovery of LSD the Psychedelic properties of LSD um um as you might guess it's not a coincidence um and we've um chosen this time for the conference for several reasons um one of them is that for many of us LSD was the first introduction to psychedelics and so we're here to honor that and it was for me as well um but also in a sense to honor Albert and to um recognized that in his life not just in his scientific discoveries but in his life he typified what we are trying to accomplish with the mainstreaming of psychedelics that he had um what you might say the classic traditional life he was married to the same woman for over 70 years he had a loving family he had a long and stable career that was very successful and he showed that you could have psychedelic mystical experiences and remain and become even deepened part of your own community and I think that's the message that we really are trying to get across to our larger culture that we are here not as part of a counterculture but as part of the culture if you look at all of us who are here and what we've done and what we've accomplished and where we've been and where we're going we're um just like a a part of the the whole culture we're we're not different and that's I think what we're hoping to accomplish more and more and to communicate now my this is also like the 41y year anniversary 41 and a half of my first LSD experience um and at the time I I had I had grown up um born in 1953 I was um deeply traumatized by the Holocaust I was raised with that aw awareness and I felt like I was um sort of charged by my family and my family's history to do something about that so I I knew that I needed to respond to the the depths of the psyche where people scapegoat and people project and people dehumanize but I I didn't really know how to do it uh but I felt that that was my family imposed Mission and the mission of history for the time that I was born and then I started um recognizing that in my own culture there was the Vietnam War and I was being asked to kill I was the last year of the the draft the lottery and so I I chose to be a draft resistor and uh thought I would go to jail for that um and and I ended up though identifying myself um once I had my LSD experience which really cut so deep it felt like it went to the depths of the psyche that um where we can make make these changes and it it had these intimations of U spirituality and connection um but I identified myself as a counterculture uh drug using criminal and I felt that that was really u a mistake and I think that one of the biggest mistakes of the 60s was this sort of acceptance of the idea that we're part of a counterculture and that's what we're trying to overcome and I think now you can see me here and my picture there in a suit and tie that we're trying to really um move and mainstream our our work and I look back and I think how lucky I was that that 18-year-old somehow or other was able to pierce through all the propaganda and have an experience with LSD that brought me um a life's Mission and that still all these years later seems uh to be exactly what I should be doing now we we're here um in enjoying the freedom of assembly we're here enjoying the freedom of speech and we're here enjoying the freedom of the press if you see all the books that have been published and we need to really give thanks to America to the freedoms that we have here and to the ability to be able to um to move forward as much as possible and yet at the same time we have to acknowledge that we fundamentally are not free in MA major ways that we do not have the freedom of thought that we do not have the ability legally to explore the full range of human consciousness using whatever tools we choose some will use psychedelics some will use other methods but the fundamental freedom of thought still needs to be one and the freedom of individual religion there's the freedom of religion but many of us have trouble with organized religion in one way or another and so we need a freedom of individualized spirituality and I think that's something that will still be accomplished in the uh decades and generations to come and we also should not take for granted that now we have more psychedelic research happening than at any time in the last 40 years it's um but at the same time here we are in California we do not have the uh ability to do medical marijuana research science is being blocked by politics when it comes to medical marijuana on um Monday we lost a major lawsuit we have been trying for 13 years to break the Government monopoly on the supply of marijuana so that we could conduct scientific research the FDA is an Open Door to scientific research but the Nationalist on drug abuse has a monopoly on the supply of marijuana and if you want to make the plant into a medicine they don't want to give you the marijuana and so we've been trying to break that and we U want an administrative law judge lawsuit but the DEA overruled the the judge and we sued in the appeal court and we just lost so unfortunately medical marijuana is going to be addressed through political means uh Illinois just is going to be making marijuana uh medicine for the I think the 20th State but it's not going to be addressed through science and I think that's a tragedy so we should really appreciate the freedoms that we have here with psychedelic research um why is this so important and I I think it's so important because as Albert Einstein said it has become appallingly obvious that our techn ology has exceeded our humanity and that's what I felt when I first did LSD that I was way overdeveloped intellectually and way underdeveloped emotionally and spiritually and if you look at the technologies that we have and the things that they're doing around the world um we're not really capable of handling them wisely and that's what we're trying to work on um Albert Einstein also said the Unleashed power of the atom has changed everything save our modes of thinking and we thus drift toward unparalleled catastrophe a new type of thinking is essential if mankind is to survive and move move towards higher levels but what is this new type of thinking I think uh Robert Mueller the assistant Secretary General of the United Nations wrote this book in the early 80s and what he was suggesting is that we have the United Nations to mediate conflicts between nations but many of these conflicts are based on religious conflicts and tribal conflicts and we need to understand deep down that we're part of the human family that we're part of the web of life on Earth and if we can identify that way then the differences that we have of our country of our religion of our gender of our race um socioeconomic status all these differences are less than what we have in common and then we can learn to appreciate differences and I think for many of us and for me personally psychedelics were the tool to help me get to This Global spirituality the sense of and when millions and billions of people have that experience we will have the basis for a more peaceful world um the preamble to the UNESCO Constitution said since Wars begin in the minds of men it is in the minds of men that the defenses of Peace must be constructed and we're trying to do that uh recently we were invited to the Pentagon and uh we were able to U speak about our interest in doing work with MDMA assisted Psychotherapy for PTSD with active duty military and with veterans and we're invited back again in a couple weeks and so the discussions are ongoing I'm not sure how they're going to turn out but the fact is that there is an open hand on the other side that we're reaching out but the system as it is is also reaching toward us in dire need for help for the veterans so I think we're trying to break down these these barriers and one thing that gives me great hope in terms of the mainstreaming of psychedelics is the progress we're making with MDMA assisted Psychotherapy for PTSD our first study was in Spain uh 2000 to 2002 with Jose Carlos buso and it was unfortunately shut down for political reasons and we were not able to resum but then later in 2004 we were able to start in the US and we've had studies in Switzerland in Israel and in Canada and we're working to start research in Australia and England and possibly Kosovo and other places so we are making great progress here um and just in the last week a lot of things have happened that are just amazing we've had um the fir on Wednesday we had the first MDMA session in Israel we've been working for three years to try to get this study started and the first session this is the treatment session room um it's it's the largest um mental hospital in Israel run by the Ministry of Health and they've given us our own building to renovate just for psychedelic sessions um for four years after our protocol was approved by Health Canada and the IRB we've been stuck because we haven't been able to get the import export permits to get the MDMA into Canada and so on Tuesday finally we're not giving up and health Canada finally realized it and so nine grams of MDMA uh arrived we had to spend over $7,000 to secure the pharmacy with bulletproof glass with safes with alarm systems all for $1,500 worth of MDMA but it's there and we finally did it so the Canadian study is about to start yeah we're starting a new study in Boulder and we were just informed Yesterday by the Denver DEA that the forms to order the MDMA should be there any day now the Dr Vander got his schedule and license almost two months ago and we thought all right we're ready to start well the forms which should have been an easy thing have supposedly been mailed to the wrong address several times they they haven't arrived but now we've been assured that they're going to arrive so we're going to be able to start our Boulder study very soon and in our our current study with veterans in U Charleston U one of the subjects said I'm 100% different than what I was when I started um what we've accomplished um we've developed a treatment manual that's standardized our therapy we don't think our therapy is perfect but we've described it and we have adherence criteria for therapists to be able to uh for independent Raiders to review the videotapes and give feedback on therapists adherence to the manual and this is what we need to do to be able to uh collect the data from all different sites to show it's the same drug and the same therapy what we've learned so far is that we can enroll people with PTSD from any cause our first major study was mostly women survivors of childhood sexual abuse and adult rape and assault and our current study with veterans with war rated trauma and so our treatment method can work we've discovered with any cause of PTSD um what we're still still trying to figure out these are the various doses that we're using in our studies in our Phase 2 studies we've used inactive Placebo 25 milligrams 30 milligrams 40 50 75 and 125 and the first thing most importantly is safety and so we have assured ourselves and the FDA and Regulatory authorities around the world that 125 milligrams followed roughly uh 1 to two hours later with 62 and a half is a sufficiently safe dose with screened patients in a clinical context and we're getting surprisingly good results at 75 Mig as well but all of these doses have been demonstrated to be safe in our context we're trying to understand about efficacy as well and the other thing that we're trying to figure out is how to do a double blind that was the classic criticism of the early psychedelic research and so we're looking at these different doses to try to figure out at which doses do people confuse with other Doses and where do they confuse them with the inactive Placebo and as you can guess it's uh uh pretty easy for people people to tell but we're still struggling so we're still struggling with the double blind issue um this is our drug development plan um just to show you that in the US we have uh started in 2004 um actually you know I started maps in 1986 to try to bring uh MDMA back into uh medicine and therapy uh but we're now projecting uh 2021 will be the year that we have MDMA approved by the FDA uh it's it's it's very possible that that this could actually happen um for many of you who are psychologists and therapists um this is a a slide about the therapist training program that we're going to be training certain number of the bar on the um your left your that side the small bar is the uh number of therapists we're predicting to train each year and the white the larger bar is the cumulative and the it's two shades white on top is if we get permission for compassionate use called expanded access once we start phase three and The Greener colors the lower colors are the numbers of therapists that we're going to need for uh phase two and phase three probably 80 to 100 therapists we're going to be needing to train to work on our studies um we're going to need roughly $3 million to finish phase two and roughly $15 million for phase three and we already have $5 million that's been given to us in a bequest by AAA Haley that we're reserving for our pH 3 MDMA PTSD so thank you to ASA who was a Guiding Light on our board of directors um and our our goal here is that one day like after we're just working so much with psilocybin that we're working to have a medicine a product at the other end and if so we can have an engine of funding to continue to support further research because as we know research is infinite and there's so much to do and so we're suggesting that there's a possibility that we would have income from the sale of uh GMP it's medical grade MDMA um we'll also have a therapist training program we'll be required to train therapists in our method before the FDA will permit them to prescribe and then we'll have our own network of clinics and so we want to um sort of set a model of care others can do this as well and uh now a couple weeks ago President Obama announced aund million brain initiative and it was really exciting this is to understand the mind what he said was as humans we can identify galaxies light years away and we can study particles smaller than an atom but we still haven't unlocked the mystery of the three pounds of matter that sits between our ears and we'll know we've really succeeded when we have the hundred million oh oops well this is supp a psychedelic brain initiative I don't know how that happened um and so um you know we're still work in progress and um we can see that we have uh President Obama's thanking beia and Amanda and Dave and Bob and I for this initiative thank you to photoshop um now in our um in the lifetime I I'm now uh 59 I'll turn 60 this year in roughly 10 years when I around the time I turned 70 I think we'll have uh MDMA as a prescription medicine and I'll be able to become a a full-time legal psychedelic psychotherapist that's my hope I think starting at 18 and ending at 70 to start my career is is a good deal I think um one of one of the things that um gives me a lot of Hope of that we can accomplish this is from our Swiss LSD study and one of which you'll hear about later today from Peter gasser um it's with uh people who are an anxious about end of life and the important thing one of the most important things is that 11 out of the 12 of the subjects in that study had never done LSD before so we're able to bring this not to to new to people that are not from this underground culture or not from this culture and I think we can do that in a larger scale as well and so this conference is a way to bring us all together to try to um help us learn from each other and so I'd like to really encourage encourage you to be bold ask your best questions uh listen as carefully as you can uh help us plan the future enjoy the present and welcome to psychedelic science 2013 thank you thank you Rick I love that idea about the Pentagon weren't we levitating the Pentagon or just a few decades uh the next speaker um is uh Amanda Fielding Amanda is the founder and director of the Beckley Foundation which she said up in 1998 uh following a lifelong interest in Consciousness research um uh at Beckley they do a wide range of projects investigating the neurophysiology pharmacology and subjective effects of psychoactive substances such as cannabis psilocybin MDMA LSD uh and legal high for that matter her research work elucidates the neuroscientific underpinnings of consciousness and investigates how psychoactive substances work and how conscious Consciousness may be enhanced and explores new potential therapeutic applications uh Amanda in the Beckley Foundation do some of the most Innovative research um and scholarship and uh she brings a bold voice to changing policy uh globally um and in Britain so I'll turn you over to the capable hands of [Applause] Amanda hello thank you for having me here and and it's very nice and beautifully organized um I hope you'll forgive me for reading what a lot has happened over the last two years at last touchwood the tide appears to be on the turn in both science and policy and finally the potential benefits of psychedelics are beginning to be recognized in 1998 I became a foundation a course action I highly recommend to all of you I set up the Beckley Foundation to work in two complementary areas science and policy the aim of the policy program was to reform Global drug policy by encouraging evidence-based policies founded on the principles of Health harm reduction cost Effectiveness and human rights the aim of the scientific program was to break the taboo on scientific research in how into how the psychedelics and cannabis affect brain function and Consciousness and into how they might be used to benefit mankind it has been a long hard journey but finally we're seeing results in both policy and science each feeding the other over the last two years the Beckley Foundation policy program has achieved some exciting breakthroughs in 200 11 we launched our Global Initiative for drug policy reform with an International Conference at the House of Lords in London and a public letter calling for an end on the war on drugs and for new approaches based on scientific evidence the letter was signed by seven former presidents including Jim mcarter and two ruling presidents 12 Nobel laurates and a dozens of global notables including Archbishop Desmond Tutu in 2012 I was invited by President Otto Perez Molina of Guatemala to advise him and his government on how to reform drug policy so as to lower violence and Corruption to that end we produced a report passed for reform which he announced the Davos I also advise the president to convene a summit of Latin American Presidents to be shared by Jimmy Carter this Summit will take place later this year at the Mayan pyramid of tial in Guatamala it will be chaired by presidents Perez Molina and Jimmy Carter and by George Soros the president the president of Guatemala is the world's leading advocate for the reform of global drug policy the ill-conceived prohibitionist policies of the last 50 years have caused more Global suffering than any other policy the time has now come for drug policies to be based on scientific evidence and for the scientific Community to open up the doors of research into the potential benefits of psychoactive substances Consciousness is the core of our being psychedelic compounds have the capacity to change this call so as to loosen it from the constraints of its conditioning and open it up to new fields of awareness our ancient forebearers recognized the value of these Altered States Of Consciousness and made them the central core of their society out of which religion culture and healing grew modern man has made a terrible mistake by Criminal alizing this magic key to man's deeper Soul a key which opens up his capacity for greater compassion awareness and creativity we here today are incredibly lucky to be at the Forefront of the task of correcting this mistake and opening up the potential for society to make use of this most valuable Aid it is only by gaining a scientific understanding of how these substances work in the brain that we will be able to free them from the misconceptions of the taboo and harness their capacity to help man overcome some of his problems and develop more fully in the 50s and 60s LSD was hiled as the new wonder drug for Psychotherapy and the development of a better understanding of Consciousness its Prohibition in 1966 7 ended this scientific flowering ethical approvals became virtually impossible to obtain scientis institution and funders shunned the field for fear of jeopardizing their [Music] reputations I grew up in the 60s before psychedelics became illegal I recognized LSD as an incredible enhancer of potential an opener of doors to new fields of awareness and nition and to emotional and Spiritual Development I realized the importance of gaining scientific understanding into how these powerful substances work in the brain and how they might best be harnessed um to the youth and benefit of mankind it was incredibly sad to see the cancer of prohibition spread under the banner of the war on drugs not only have these prohibitionist policies cause devastating collateral damage to Public Health society and human rights but they have also prevented 80% of the world's population having access to painkilling medication and have blocked one of the most promising fields of scientific research in a manner reminiscent of the excesses of the Inquisition I was highly aware of the absurdity of the classification system for drugs in the UK and the US in 2003 I approached the leading British neuroscientist Professor Colin Blakemore to propose a new classification system for drugs including alcohol and tobacco which would evaluate both the harms and benefits of each substance but the concept of benefits was at that time taboo so no research to them had been done so at the Beckley seminar of 2003 Colin presented a paper describing a scientifically based scale of harm for all social drugs this scale was later developed by Professor David nut who happily will be here on Sunday to talk about the Beckley Imperial scientific program and in 2007 this paper was published in the lanet and has since become internationally influential it demonstrates the fact that the current scheduling of drugs on which sentencing is based has no scientific basis alcohol which currently kills 2.5 million people globally each year and tobacco which kills 5 million are legal while MDMA and the psychedelics which kill hardly anyone are in the higher schedule of harms defined as having no medical use and attracting jail sentences whose length would make even Starling hesitate now now at last we're beginning to build the evidence base of those benefits and that is something to celebrate however although the process has begun there are still enormous obstacles because of their illegal status of the substances which makes them fantastically difficult and expensive to work with under the UN drug conventions the severity of control of these compounds is on a par with that for nuclear [Music] weapons on Sunday afternoon I will be presenting with with our collaborators two projects from the Beckley Foundation scientific program firstly Roland Griffith Matt Johnson and I will be talking about our collaboration at John Hopkins the first pilot study in modern times to use a psychedelic as an aid in overcoming Addiction in this case using psilocybin to overcome nicotine addiction the results so far have been outstandingly successful they show that with the aid of psilocybin Psychotherapy can overcome even the most treatment resistant addiction they also demonstrate how valuable it would be to follow up this pilot study with a full clinical trial secondly David nut Robin cahart Harris and I will be discussing the latest exciting developments in the Beckley Imperial psychopharmacological research program which has now completed some pioneering neuroscientific studies into the effect of psilocybin and MDMA these studies provide important new insights into how these compounds alter brain function thereby adding to our understanding of that most elusive but Central concept Consciousness our cocy study showed for the first time how in the resting state psilocybin reduces the blood flow particularly to the default mode Network the dmn this system sits at the top of the brain's hierarchy exerting a topown control of other brain regions which feed their information into the dmn to be either repressed or rooted onwards this de for mode network is a major part of the physiological basis of the ego and super ego as described by Freud interestingly the subjective strength of the Psychedelic experience was correlated with the degree of reduction of blood supply to the default mode Network by reducing the blood flow to the dmn and reducing its repressive activity sensory and emotional impulses which would normally be repressed can reach Consciousness and users experience a more spontaneous and unconstrained mode of thinking a more fluid and plastic State of Consciousness this state more readily allows access to areas of the brain normally kept repressed there is a loosening of ego boundaries so that the distinction between inner and outer worlds becomes [Music] blurred this facilitates access to more spiritual and novel modes of thinking and to repress trauma the default mode Network comprises high level cortical centers that are highly connected to each other and to subcortical systems these centers include the medial prefrontal cortext and the posterior single cortex interestingly the medior prefontal cortex is hyperactive in depression and the fact that psilocybin reduces its activity suggest that psilocybin could be a novel treatment for depression this discovery has resulted in the UK medical research Council providing over 500,000 to under undertake a clinical study to further investigate the treatment of depression with psilocybin uh MDMA [Applause] study uh MDM St MDMA study has shown how MDMA reduces blood supply to the limbic area and how it results in the experience of positive memories being more posi POS than with placea and in the experience of negative memories being less painful this gives a neuroscientific explanation of why MDMA can be such a valuable Ally in the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder it both facilitates access to repressed memories and makes them less painful to recall and therefore easier to work through and reint into Consciousness the Beckley Imperial College research program has usus already provided new understanding about Consciousness itself a promising new pathway for treating one of the scourges of our times depression and a new scientific explanation of why MDMA and siloc cybin can provide such invaluable aids to the psycho therapy of mental trauma looking forward we have recently received ethical approvals for the world's first study to investigate the effects of LSD using the latest brain imaging technology fmri and Meg I so look forward to not only researching how LSD can help treat many of man's mental and physical ill illnesses but also how it can help stimulate creativity and a higher level of awareness less constrained by the shackles of conditioning and after LSD we will investigate the facts of iasa and [Music] cannabis and finally at the days of the 70th anniversary of Albert Hoffman's first intentional LSD trip I'm happy to announce that the Beckley foundation in collaboration with Oxford University press have just co-published a new edition of elbert's book LSD my problem child and insights outlooks beautifully translated by Jonathan not thank you very much thank you Amanda um next up is Bob Jesse Bob Jesse is convenor of the Council on spiritual practices csp.org um Bob was instrumental in forming the psilocybin research team at Johns Hopkins University and has co-authored three of its scientific papers he also led the writing of an amicus brief for the US Supreme Court in support of the UN do vegal the udvs um use of sacramental containing dimethyl tryptamine DMT which is a controlled substance subsequently a unanimous Court upheld the udvs right to its practice uh Bob Bob's work [Applause] and uh very important and maybe Bob you'll you'll share with us the prospects for um iasa spiritual experiences uh at a church or synagogue near you um uh lastly Bob's work draws liberally from the non- creedal non-hierarchical ways of the qu Quakers the religious Society of Friends Bob good morning everyone happy bicycle day thank you to Tom Robert who's probably here someplace for naming bicycle day and being a consistent stand for acknowledging it uh thank you to Tom as an elder and thank you for the tradition let see there we go I'd like to invite everyone to um get comfortable in your chairs maybe straighten up a little bit and get your legs comfortable get your seat firmly planted in the chair might find it helpful to close your eyes for a moment and attend to your breathing feel your weight sinking into the chair and the the chair connecting with the ground and the Earth I'd like to invite you to answer a question which a friend asked me last night I found it very helpful and the question is why are you here what brought you to this conference what do you hope to be able to give to this work to this group of people what might you receive from this group of people from this weekend we have together beyond that what motivates what you want to give and what you want to receive is there a yearning and thank you for contemplating that uh let me share you my answer to that question and answer to that question and I'd like to do it by asking for some shows of hands uh this is in the form of an informal survey please feel very free to not participate for any orall questions number one if you have participated in a clinical trial of a psychedelic or MDMA or cannabis or if you think you might participate in a clinical trial in say the next two years for depression anxiety PTSD OCD Etc would you please raise your hand I know we do have some research volunteers here and have a look around okay everyone see that thank you uh question number two imagine some years down the road uh those charts that Rick put up that all comes to pass and psychedelically assisted treatment for PTSD depression anxiety Etc are now routinely available you don't need to be a clinical research volunteer uh again I'm please don't answer this if it's uncomfortable for you if you actually have PTSD or clinically significant depression or anxiety Etc and would seek treatment if it were rtin ly available legally would you please raise your hand okay third question imagine some place on planet Earth where you could take these materials without a medical need beautiful place in the woods or beautiful a inspiring architecture with friends whatnot uh and again with no medical need you can just go do this in some appropriately contained and safeguarded setting and it's legal imagine further that you had the money and the time to go to that place how many people would do that please have a look around keep your hands up there we go that's why I'm here you look at the slide uh it took a little while to come up with a term to Encompass that I've decided to call it for the time being the betterment of well people the therapeutic work is supremely important I resonate very deeply with the vision that Rick has shared of what Humanity has done to itself for so long um why it is that we keep generating these cycles of violence and the trauma that it leaves in the aftermath so for all of you who are healers and you are engaged in any aspect of the healing part of this work a deep bow to you and why I'm here is this so one question that we often focus on is you know boy how can we get this legally or or what material will we take or how do we do this um it's becoming increasingly clear to me that the substance itself or the session or the insights that you gain in the course of a couple of hours or a day um it's very important but it's not at all the end of the game the end of the game in a therapeutic context is called something like integration where you spend hours with the therapist and you see the the person a week later or a month later until the trauma is actually taken care of and kind of put to rest what about the insights gained from sessions outside of that kind of context uh I'd like to offer for your consideration the notion that integration actually takes a lifetime that is the work of a lifetime and we would do well to generate for ourselves longitudinally stable multigenerational context that really support that integration that see what's going on so we can lean on each other we can prod each other a little bit we can support each other we can celebrate with each other so I'm very interested in the social context the non-medical social contexts that would support that process over a lifetime and if you share that interest and enthusiasm i' that'd be a great thing to talk about this weekend when I think about the social contexts I think about what are called communities Traditions bicycle day is a great tradition we have we have a tradition we have a widely shared tradition and it's wonderful I look forward to it every year I don't always celebrate it intensely um but it's just nice to know that it's on the calendar and if you say bicycle day to someone in this room we know what it means do we have other shared Traditions or maybe you have other small smaller communities maybe they're associated with a a more conventional received religion maybe it's a group of friends that will get together every Thanksgiving and do a certain thing how important is that in your lives and what's it look like to generate these traditions and keep them going on and to pass them along to success of generations another thing that comes to mind under the rubric of social contexts social vessels is lineage surely it's the case for everyone in the room that we can name individuals that have been very formative to us not only in our families of origin but teachers mentors someone who who took us under our wings shared with us important insights helped us through difficult moments inspired our work on to the next stage would you take a moment please again get comfortable in your seat maybe close your eyes if it's helpful and bring to mind some of the people who have been deeply influential in your lives I know that for me there are people whose influence has been so strong that I can't imagine what my life would have been like in the absence of that so please take a moment and and enjoy that immersion what have you learned from these people what does it felt like to be in the presence of such a person what bonds of affection or love have you had for a mentor or a teacher thank you I'll share with you some of my answer to that question I've chosen here the people that have been deeply meaningful to me some of whom I've never met some of whom I've met and a few of whom have become very close personal friends and mentors and this is all under the rubric of the betterment of well people these are people whose names and pictures you might recognize who have been interested in psychedelics in one way or another and the agens and who have not felt constrained by the medical model uh of course this list could go back hundreds thousands of years but I'm just choosing an arbitrary start point and saying William James probably the most famous first famous American psychologist who among many scholarly Works wrote the varieties of religious experience and who famously said of his own experimentation with nitrous oxide if nothing else can be said about them they prevent us from prematurely foreclosing our accounts of Ultimate Reality that's a paraphrase but if there's nothing else you get out of these experiences you can't be too certain we should keep on looking U he has influenced so many people around the world next down the line eldis Huxley we all know wrote dors of perception many novels and if you don't know his novel Island um that was very influential for me his wife Laura Huxley reckoned that it may be his most important work although maybe underappreciated if you ask the question what could entheogens or psychedelics look like in society how could they benefit us actually somebody asked me that recently and wanted an answer an email and I started typing replies and everything I did for a sentence or two I deleted because it seemed too simple it wasn't Rich enough it didn't have enough warnings or caveats or well this might happen but there might be this unintended consequence and I actually think think you need to write a book to answer that question Huxley did it for us that that's one version of the story that's one possible unfolding of the people here this is just not going the direction I wanted to there we go these people in particular have done something uh for which I'm very very grateful I grew up in a nominally churchgoing household and love the choir and the incense and the pageantry of it uh and after a while couldn't make sense of some of what was recited as Doctrine in fact it seemed pretty anti-scientific to me and I found myself disengaging from religion you not thinking about it a lot but just you know religion is not science in fact religion is anti-science and it's taken some decades and a lot of mentoring and coaching and inspiration from these people and others to learn to reframe that word to understand the word religion differently by the way I would regard that as an exercise in open-mindedness to be willing to let go of our quick responses to a word and look for deeper meaning to hold on to what serves and to let go of what doesn't serve so I'm extremely grateful to these people some of whom have personally shown me um how to say it uh the baby that I may have thrown out with the bath water last thing I'd like to say many of us have been involved in this work for quite a long time and I think it's a fairly common phenomenon that when you first start you think oh boy if we just do this one thing then in you know a couple years five years the world will be different and kind of that'll be done and you get involved in it say Wow Wow a couple years later and yeah that thing got done but the work isn't done so as somebody said what starts out looking like a Sprint or a short race begins after a while looking like a marathon oh boy I guess we're in it for the long haul and after you've been doing it for a long enough time you start to realize that this fits into a very long Arc Crossing generations and maybe it's not even a marathon maybe it's a relay race so that's what comes to mind when I think about community and longitudinal stability and work that passes across the generations that's not to say don't do what's in front of us today if there's suffering in front of us today and we can alleviate suffering let's go ahead and do that too but there's some comfort that I have in being able to step back and say we'll do our work and in the great unfolding all will be well thank you thank you I want to say my influential lineage although I'm older than some of them is standing right here and you've been listening to this morning thank you very much um so um our next speaker this morning is Dave Nichols um Dave Nichols PhD is President co-founder and director of preclinical research of the hefter research institute that's at hf.org uh um Dr Nichols originally conceived of a privately funded Institute as the most effective mechanism for bringing research on psychedelic agents into the modern era of Neuroscience and this Vision led to the founding of the hefta research institute in 1993 among scientists um Dave is recognized as one of the foremost experts on the medical chemistry of hallucinogens his high standards and more than four Decades of research experience set the tone to ensure that rigorous methods and quality science are pursued by The Institute and Dave tells me he's been working with psychedelics since 1969 an enormous lineage there as well Dave thank you I don't have prepared remarks so hopefully I'll stay under my 15 minutes of a lotted time uh this is a great event and I would like to personally express my thanks to Rick doblin for organizing it uh The hefter Institute is a virtual Institute we don't do any publicity stuff we don't send out things we have a newsletter for donors but this gives us uh the chance to show what we've been doing so Rick thank you for putting this together it's a it's a great thing you've [Applause] done uh I am a chemist and when I started this work in 1969 when I started my Graduate Studies the only other chemist in the field was Sasha Shogun and I'd also although I don't believe he's here I'd like to uh thank him for his inspiration and pioneering efforts in the field that really helped me when I was getting started so Sasha has been a big influence for me so so I retired from Purdue University uh last June I was a I was a name professor in Pharmacology and also a distinguished professor in Medicinal Chemistry and I just got kind of tired of the BS and the paperwork and not having enough money and so forth and thought going to retire moved to Chapel Hill a colleague there said well why don't you do an indefinite sabbatic on my lab I said well that sounds pretty good um my wife and I have three of our four grandchildren live in ourway in Greensboro so but I've been going into the lab every morning uh I have a bench there and I do some chemistry and I was sitting next to George Greer at dinner last night and he says so Dave you go in and you do lab work you're actually doing chemistry in the lab every day and I said yes he said you need to stop telling people that You' retired so I'm semi-retired but we still have lots of good things to do um somebody asked me after I had um put together the hefter Institute years ago so what is your hope what do you what do you think will happen in the future and I said well someday probably long after I'm dead there will be a psychiatrist SL Shaman that operates an office and you'll go in and you'll be in your mid-40s having a midlife crisis or an existential crisis and your doctor will say you know I think you need to have a psychedelic therapy session and you'll go to that person and you'll have a psychedelic therapy session it'll help you get a perspective on what's going on in your life Etc and they said after you're dead that's kind of like isn't that awful I mean after you're dead and I said well you know you have to start somewhere I mean but you know it might happen before I die now and it's really exciting um the other comment I would make is I would get invited to some of these meetings that that were sort of conferences of the an shogan calls them the calls you all the tribe and I was typically the one that was most overdressed because I was the token scientist they'd bring in the talk and there would be shamans and drummers and all kinds of uh unusual people different people there and I was the most straight one there and I've noticed this morning that I'm the only one without a tie we got Rick doblin wearing or without a jacket Rick dolin's wearing a jacket Bob Jesse's wearing a jacket everybody's dressed up so it's kind of a comment on how far the field has come that I'm the least uh the most underdressed but I really couldn't imagine uh how much progress we've made um as The hefter Institute we've been around since 93 and as we've gone on and published uh and done more and more things we've attracted more donors and things are really starting to grow it's really been exciting and I'm not going to preempt all the talks there are a lot of hefter people here Charlie grob Steve Ross Roland Griffith fron full inviter that will tell you more specifically what they're doing uh go to our website we've actually sponsored uh 50 over 50 research Publications dealing with psychedelics fron vener has the preeminent lab in the world looking at brain Imaging and the effects of psychedelics and has done literally hundreds of subjects uh given uh psilocybin MDMA amphetamine ketamine um you know Charlie groe did the first study of psilocybin in terminal patients we published that in 2010 and the results were so encouraging we expanded that study and there's a larger study at New York University under the direction of Steve Ross Dr Steve Ross uh and there're about two-thirds of the way through the recruitment there have 33 patients dying patients Roland Griffith is doing a similar study although the patients don't have to be terminal at Johns Hopkins using psilocybin to treat people that have distress over the diagnosis of a terminal illness Michael Bogan shoots is about finished with a pilot study of psilocybin treating alcoholism and what from what I hear the the results are really amazing you heard Amanda referred to the study of a psilocybin and smoking sensation that's really given amazing results and now we have plans to look at depression at a couple different sites fron is looking at the underlying basis for depression and how psilocybin might uh treat that um other studies with substance abuse are planned at New York University with psilocybin so as we find more and more areas to go into we're finding donors that step up and say you we really like what you're doing and the idea of the hefter Institute was really to do it in a very Hardline Mainline scientific way because we realized in the 1950s and 60s there were so many people giving these in what I would call an unauthorized and unsupervised Manner and it created a lot of the media hype that we saw and when we started the hefter we all said this has to be hardcore science because that's the only thing that the mainstream will understand we have to have good scientific design peer-reviewed protocols and legitimate stuff published in the best journals Charlie grob study on psilocybin in terminal cancer patients that was published was published in archives of General Psychiatry that is the top journal in the field it's extremely difficult to get a paper in there so that just shows the quality of the work that we've been trying to do and I won't go on and on but just to say uh it's just amazing that we've gotten to where we are and Rick said he may be able to have MDMA as a prescription drug in 2017 20171 2021 we may maybe we'll get there in 2017 I don't know but we are uh as Rick has uh taken maps to uh work on the MDMA issue hefter has really focused on psilocybin that was a conscious decision we made at the time because there was really was no social stigma with respect to psilocybin we debated should we use MDMA should we use mescaline should we use LSD should we use psilocybin and we went through the list of things and in those days 10 years or so ago if you went up to someone on the street and said do you know what psilocybin is no you know what you've heard of magic mushroom shrooms oh yeah I think so and now if you go up to people and say have you heard of psilocybin there's been so much press coverage that a lot of people say oh yeah isn't that new drug they're using to treat uh people who are dying people with cancer so the word is getting out I mean Rick and I and and a lot of people in he have been doing a lot of interviews there's a lot of stories there was just Popular Science just published an interview with me that's online there's a lot of documentary out there people are starting to get the message and I think uh if we persevere and and obviously we're not going any place Rick's not going any place I'm not going any place if we persevere this is going to happen so it's not probably going to be after I'm dead I might actually see that uh in 10 or 15 years and hope I'm not dead but um but it's really great and I'm really happy to see all of you here and I think if we stick to the mission uh we can make changes uh the government resist this continually the the medical marijuana thing this rejection of of marijuana is just absurd marijuana is in this schedule one the most dangerous of drugs and hefter avoids getting into these political uh issues but it's obvious to scientist and I represent hefter it's obvious to the scientist in hefter that marijuana is not the kind of Bugaboo that everyone would have the government would have people believe we all know that and I I'm preaching to the choir here but we have to make these changes happen and the way they happen is by producing hard data The Regulators and the bureaucrats what they appreciate is hard data we've treat you know we we will have treated 80 some patients with psilocybin who are have a terminal diagnosis and if we go to somebody at any agency and say we've treated almost 90 people and we've gotten statistically significant results it works there's nothing there's no recourse they can't say well you're a bunch of crazy hit no here's the here are the data these data were generated at John's Hopkins University at New York University at UCLA these are the facts and that's what we have to do that's what we are doing and it's going to happen thank you all for your support uh you can support hefter if you want to we'd love it uh but your emotional support and just hanging in there and being part of the process it's great so I'm happy to be here I go to some of the hefter talks I think you'll see a lot of what we're doing and uh thanks again Rick it's a great conference [Applause] thank you Dave um so the final opening remark of the morning is going to be by beatric KUB labate um PhD uh beia earned her doctorate in Social anthropology from the State University of campanus in Brazil um she's now visiting professor at the drug policy program of the center for economic research and education in Mexico um she's author and co-author and co-editor of eight books to English translation ations one Journal special edition and several peer-reviewed articles she's an upcoming Star in that ever ongoing lineage that Bob Jesse talked about hi everyone I normally like to talk but um this involves a lot of emotions to me in English so I decided to read for you I'm very pleased to be here today I want to thank the conference organizers for the openness to the topic of aasa and the participants of the awasa track for accepting my invitation to join our gathering I would also like to thank my University cides C in AAS centes Mexico and thank you all for coming I'm happy to stand here today and see this big audience United more than 275 years after a Jesuit missionary first reported on aasa using Peru more than 150 years after botanist Richard Spruce identified bun opes used among the Indians of the Northwest Amazon 90 years after its active principles were isolated 80 years after DMT was synthesized in in a laboratory for the first time 50 years after burrow and Ginsburg published their classic book y letters 37 years after Terrence mcka and Cat Harrison who's my good friend and who's here now um and who was in her mid-20s then took off uh for their trip to Peru and 28 years after a conference in Bogota which held a pioneering simposio on aasa all this happened at a time when it was not possible to type aaska into Google in your computer ever since the Europeans colonized the new world and discovered the Amazon on the jungle and Indigenous populations have been fascinating us aasa or yaj seems to derive its power as Anthropologist Michael tosic puts it from the Amazon forest and its populations the Amazon is fertile mysterious creative and Powerful but it is also dangerous hostile chaotic and demoniac Colonial imagination attributed special medical abilities to the inhabitant of the forest the tropical Indians their supposed wildness mirrored mirrored in the wilderness of the forest could heal the white men and Colonial wounds after a long journey of persecution and banishment by colonizers followed by prohibitionist drug policies we can observe the spread of aaska rituals throughout Europe and North America and together with this a huge expansion in the scientific study of aasa this Vine has definitely become an interest of the academic world and seems to be here to stay in the words of Brazilian historian aniki Caro as te telescopes are to the astronomy and microscopes to biology psychedelic drugs represent the primary technoscientific tool of knowledge of the mind I think it is safe to say that we are co-protagonist in the largest event ever about I on planet Earth there will be one Community Forum five films and more than 30 presentations the aasa track is always is also going to launch our Book awasa and Health awas salute our track is multidisciplinary it includes perspectives from the disciplines of Neuroscience neurobiology Psychiatry pharmacology ethnopharmacology ethnobotany psychology Public Health EP epidemiology ol ology anthropology law and education presenters have come from Brazil USA Canada Germany Spain Peru and Mexico the main focus of the aaska track is on the therapeutic potential of aasa presentations will explore the ritual and clinical uses of the substance in the treatment and management of various diseases and ailments especially its role in Psy ological well-being quality of life and in shaping identity they will particularly address aasa's promising potentials as adjunct to psychotherapy for substance dependence and in some cases in some cases to depression and PTSD the biomedical and psychological research presented in the track ranges from neurophysical aspects of Visions to the use of Neuroscience tools to compare dream states and and psychedelic States from the neuros pychological evaluation of viasa drinkers to investigation of long-term effects on Mental Health potential side effects toxicity interaction with anti-depressants and mental disorders health health illness and current are analyzed through the lenss of anthropology as well particularly in religious and shamanic settings the track investigates the boundary between Shamanism religion and Medicine examining hybridization across the diverse knowledge bases of awasa practices our collaborators do not avoid controversial topics such as the role of Economics cultural and ritual translations iasa tourism sexual abuse ethics legal pluralism and religious freedom we hope that the aasa trap track helps to legitimize the scientific study of aasa and encourages more researchers to study this topic we have contract with the German Springer publishing to produce a book out of this conference the therapeutic use of iasa in some it is a true joy to unite the top Experts of the world on this topic with the iasa global uh the global iwaska drinking community in a congenial California atmosphere I love California and I'm very happy to be here welcome to the to our world of researchers friend friends kin enemies active principles ancestors nonhumans plant spirits and molecules I hope you I hope you will all come come join us in the aasa track to discuss the nature of this hallucinogen religious Sacrament medicinal plant magical potion and its incredible potentials to shedding light onto the nature of the mind body and spirit thank you and welcome to psychedelic science [Applause] 2013

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: qM7IBySl2xk (https://youtu.be/qM7IBySl2xk) ===

you can see the symptoms coming to the surface people spend time shaking crying letting out the traumas all right rick it's great to be speaking with you yeah i'm so happy to be here with you today looking forward to it so i thought um to start for those who are unfamiliar with maps could you talk about what is maps and why did you found it all those years ago to begin with well maps stands for the multi-disciplinary association for psychedelic studies it's a non-profit organization that i conceived of as a non-profit pharmaceutical company to develop psychedelics into prescription medicines we do a lot of other things as well we're very interested in public education we end up doing harm reduction we have a zendo project which is sort of at burning man and events all over where people are doing psychedelics we have um peer support volunteers most of them therapists that are willing to help people process difficult experiences so we have kind of a two-track approach one is to medicalize through the fda and then have it the therapies covered by insurance the other is drug policy reform so fundamentally i think that the drug war is counterproductive it's a violation of human rights we should have freedom to explore consciousness and our culture would be better off if we had licensed legalization for psychedelics and other drugs were different than what we have now for example for alcohol you know you could be a drunk driver and then you get pulled over and then you get a ticket you lose your driver's license but you still can go buy alcohol get back in your car and kill people which happens a lot so there should be kind of a license for drugs rather than just you can buy them and then if you misbehave you get punished for your misbehavior and then maybe you lose your license for a while or something like that so maps is now roughly a hundred people we're two companies um maps which is the non-profit and there's a few below 30 people in in this group and then the other group is around 70 people which is the maps public benefit corporation that's basically our pharmaceutical development arm and that's the group that's going to make mdma into a medicine and then sell it for a profit under um prescription use hopefully and then whatever profits are made are going to go back to the mission of maps so the non-profit is the 100 owner of the for profit so we're a non-profit owning a psychedelic pharmaceutical company and we are getting close to uh approval for mdma assisted psychotherapy for ptsd and in the history of maps since 1986 when i started it we've raised over a hundred million dollars in donations or or or multi-year commitments and so it's kind of astonishing to think about it wow yeah and i want to get into all that the legalization and the um the funding and all that but um before that so you mentioned exploring the consciousness as kind of you know one of the goals of psychedelics exploring the mind so um yeah you were i was reading that you were mentored by stan groff right the famous hungarian um he's from the czech republic sorry ch right czech uh psychotherapist and what did you learn from him how did you get started exploring your own consciousness well if it wasn't for stan who's now um 89 years old and you know we're in a very frequent contact even still but it's because of stan that i've decided to devote my life to psychedelics that took place in 1972 when i was 18 years old so i was a college student started to college in 1971 i had been more and more focused as i was growing up on psychological factors i was particularly traumatized by the holocaust being from jewish family the cuban missile crisis the whole world going up in a nuclear conflagration that was scary as a child and this just led me more and more to psychological factors and then the vietnam war and i became a draft resister and now it was my own country doing things that i thought we shouldn't be doing um and i spoke to my parents and they said um you know if you're going to be a draft resister you're going to go to jail you're going to be a felon you'll never be able to be a doctor my dad was a doctor you'll never be able to be a lawyer none of this and i'm like that's the price i have to pay but i'm not gonna you know go to vietnam and try to kill people or not get killed just so i could have a certain kind of job so i wasn't sure what i was gonna do and then at college this was after the backlash against the 60s and the psychedelic revolution and psychedelics and all other drugs were criminalized in 1970 by nixon and the control substances act and so i started thinking i should try some psychedelics and see what they do and i had the delusion that the more psychedelics you take the faster you evolve um you know i wish that were true but you know i completely underestimated the um importance of integration so in the summer of not summer but in the early part of 1972 i went to the guidance counselor at college and i said help me with my trips um and this is a period of time this was a private school they took me seriously and the guidance counselor gave me a book to read and the book was realms of the human unconscious observations from lsd research by stanislav graf and it was reading that book that everything came together for me because um politically i it was about the mystical experience as one of the realms of consciousness and the thought politically is that if we can feel our primary identification with the universe with everything you know that with the sweep of evolution and history and that we we feel part of this big picture and that that's fundamentally who we are then when we come back from that people that are different in terms of uh religion or gender or race or nationality we know that we have more in common with them than separated us so that we that's so i felt like that mystical experience is going to be the antidote to genocide and the world going up in environmental destruction so stan talked about that but it was primarily science overlaid on realms of the human unconscious and on religious mystical topics so i don't trust religion as much but i trust science more than religion but it had a reality check built into it which was therapy can we help people get better so reading this book just like i can't have a normal job i can be an underground psychedelic therapist this is the solution to my future the world and humanity needs these experiences and so i wrote a letter to stan the guidance counselor not only had this book but had stan's address the book didn't even get published until 1975. so i got a manuscript copy in 1972. i just had the most luckiest guidance counselor i couldn't have been more lucky and stan when i wrote him a letter actually wrote me back and i i did a workshop with him in 1972 with joan halifax who he was uh temporarily married to and uh i've been uh inspired by him ever since and and it's really been um that work by stan that made me realize he has said that psychedelics are the study of the mind what the microscope is to biology and the telescope is to astronomy and when we think about human history and we think about the telescope father bruno was burned at the stake for saying that the earth wasn't the center of the universe based on copernicus and galileo's findings and galileo died under house arrest and so the telescope itself was controversial now we don't think of the telescope as a disruptive piece of technology that has to be criminalized and we have to punish people that use the telescope but some of us still think that way about psychedelics so the hope is and this is i think because of a lot of the work that stan did is that one day the psychedelics will be seen as a tool just like the microscope and the telescope it will bring to the surface parts of our unconscious parts of our um inner conflicts and new experiences to help us really evolve as individuals and as humanity yeah i just recently finished reading the way of the psychonaut by stan groff and you know it's interesting because you might think well i guess one counter argument that would be well you were just on drugs like how does what you were seeing have any relevance to the human mind as it relates to other people's minds but what what dr groff has done is really bring a scientific approach and noticed commonalities and connections and kind of started to map the unconscious and these uh states or these um recurring themes in his work with patients and i was i was hoping you could talk a little bit more about the science and what are we finding about the the mind as it relates to psychedelics yeah thank you um i think you know in part because uh stan talked about the cartography of uh the human mind that also helped me come up with the name maps because because he used that that metaphor um well what i i one thing i think that's extraordinarily uh reassuring but will be quite controversial in the current world is that there is i believe and this is still to be proven but i believe that there's um sort of this unit of mystical experience that we talked about that's common for all humans and that underlies all the different religions and and i would sort of communicate religions being like languages they all have their different flavors their different emphasis what they're kind of good for best at but they're all basically doing the same thing which is trying to help us um you know communicate to each other religions i think are similar there can be different religious cultural um origins different uh symbols different um mythologies there are different people that are the buddha or jesus or moses or stuff but but so i think that in the structure of the mind as you're saying there is this commonality that we all share um i think that the way stan described it was sort of three different areas of the mind of main areas one is sort of psychodynamic which is more what freud was trying to talk about i think freud is like columbus in that columbus discovered america but wrote the map all wrong i think you know freud helped us unders understand the power of the unconscious but had all sorts of um culturally specific views that he universalized like penis envy and the oedipus complex and a lot of these things i think are were part of the culture context but not really fundamental factors of um the human mind but what sam talked is that there's this um vast realm of of um sort of psychodynamic issues in the mind but then there's um what he called the perinatal matrices or the birth trauma the the process of birth that um sort of imprints on us all a certain dynamic of um being in this oceanic bliss and then the womb starts contracting and you don't know what's going to happen this fear of death fear you know and then this struggle and then you're on your own you know and there's all different variations according to that but a lot of these are sort of um patterns established early of how people process things and then there's what what stan called the union or the transpersonal area where things that we share in common so mystical experiences um i i do believe um and again this is um i think what stan has tried to talk about is that there this is a more challenging area but but there's some ways where our minds interconnect i mean and so i i do believe that there's probably ways to get information um in a holographic way through so we talk about esp or things like that a lot of times under psychedelics people will have um experiences from other times and places where they seem to bring back um information that that then can be verified sometimes so this is the more controversial thing um but i think our minds do interconnect not just with what's going on but with what has happened in the past um and the question you you started about saying oh that's just a drug you know let's discount these experiences so first off our brain is drugs what is our brain but you know electrical chemical series of so our so if if it's just a drug experience our brain is just a drug experience and and we can say oh it's it's it's not real and it's true you know we we see the world through a filter so an another approach to thinking about the mind has been with abraham maslow and um you know many people may know about the the hierarchy of needs and you know your your safety survival needs your belonging needs your steam needs and then the peak of this need harkey was um self-actualization now that's humanistic psychology stan groff and abe maslow and a few others near the end of abe maslow's life started transpersonal psychology which is about the things we have in common by being human the confrontation with death and these mystical experiences that go beyond our individual ego and that that's this sort of transpersonal realm um and so i think within this sort of broad spectrum of what can be happening um a lot of times the roots of psychological issues um will be resolved through some of these uh transpersonal experiences not always but but what stan was trying to do basically i think was to demonstrate that um for healing of therapy a lot of times there's a deeper roots than just um what people are sharing that there's you know fundamental issues and so that the therapeutic process is when i talked about the reality check for stan so you can say it's just a drug these experiences are not real that's a separate kind of question are they real or not the issue that i have focused on addressing that stan has is are they useful are they helpful to help people grow to enjoy life more to use this precious time that we have alive more fully and so i think you can have all these discussions about are these is it a drug is it real is it not but is it therapeutic is it useful is a more important frame for me and i think that um a lot of times people do have profound healings from you know thinking about their birth or thinking about death or or thinking about spirituality that isn't related to their direct life right yeah no i think that's a really important point that pragmatically speaking that i mean that's what we should care about is do these things improve human lives do they lessen suffering not ontologically what is the out there out there that is actually real and not just projected into our minds which you know gets into more philosophical stuff without any hard answers so it's like why not just look at these as tools that can then be uh give us better and better maps for improving human lives um yeah so that philosophers other people you know it is important to answer these questions you know what's real what's not but but i think that um as you say you know that can take another couple centuries for people to figure that out and meanwhile people are suffering now so is it useful is more important to me right right and yeah so let's talk about some of that research being done so catch us up on the latest in the psychedelics research uh sphere okay well um i have an image but i'll i'll describe it so because we won't share a slide or anything but um there's been a the slide is a the web of science and it's a list of psychedelic publications by year by decade going back to uh the 40 the 50s and 60s right now in this moment in time 2020 in the last few years there are more psychedelic scientific papers published vastly more multiple times more than in the peak of the 1960s and early 70s so we are really in a realm of a renaissance and psychedelic research and there's a whole range of studies that are being done all over the world and we see universities that even harvard has now got a psychedelic research center at mgh massachusetts general hospital cambridge health alliance so where timothy leary was sort of where people think psychedelics went off the track in the 60s now they're psychedelic researcher yale has a psychedelic study ny nyu uc san francisco medical university of south carolina all these schools so there's i'd say that there's the area of research that i'm most interested in which is for political reasons is drug development making drugs in psychedelic assisted psychotherapy into medicines to help people in their suffering there's a whole other area of research which is mechanism of action research you know how do these substances help us understand how does the mind actually work and and how do these drugs actually work so there's been an enormous amount of information on mechanism of action and then there's another bunch of studies that are more on safety like you know how do these drugs interact in the body and the brain and what are the health consequences of that um there's another yet another area of research that's i think it's going to be growing in the future which is uh epigenetics so what we so um i just gave a presentation right before this to the bronx va and mount sinai hospital and rachel yehuda is a researcher who is going to lead our mdma project inside the bronx va but she's done studies with holocaust survivors and their children and she's identified mechanisms epigenetic mechanisms by which trauma is passed from generation to generation set points for anxiety and trauma so how is it that these um set points are set how is this epigenetic information passed what does therapy with psychedelics or not how does that impact what we pass on to our children so that's another area of research i think that the national institute of mental health the traditional funding agencies they like mechanism of action research i'm more results-oriented which is drug development so drug development let me just say that we are in phase three which is the final stage of research to make a drug into a medicine for mdma assisted psychotherapy for ptsd um we've gotten good results from our first phase three study and we're just starting our second we hope by early 2023 or late 2022 that we would have fda approval and if we were those results as well well um it's hard for i'll just share that you know because we're trying to get a scientific paper published i can say now that um there was very statistically significant with a substantial effect size with an excellent safety profile so in other words the first phase three study was successful and so now we are moving on to trying to do the second phase three study um there are groups that are um doing psilocybin for major depression disorder and also um treatment resistant depression um for-profit groups compass non-profit group usona they're in phase two there's a whole range of studies into a wide variety of therapeutic applications with addiction and we've also done worked with ben sessa a psychiatrist in england who's done mdma for alcoholics you help them process their trauma they don't have so much of a need to escape there's been studies with psilocybin for nicotine addiction for cocaine addiction for alcoholism there's just an enormous range of work with the treatment of addiction depression social anxiety has been well studied um people with life-threatening illnesses have been studied we're about to do work with eating disorders with mdma there's psilocybin studies starting with eating disorders obsessive-disso compulsive disorder there's the potential some interest in schizophrenia looking at mdma for schizophrenia or dissociative identity disorder um there's enormous potential there i think from the neuroscience let me just say that what has been discovered is that the psychedelics promote new neural connections they promote neuroplasticity so how is so you can say oh it's just a drug and you know it's not real but how is it that you can have a just a drug experience one time or a few times and it changes your life and it lasts how can that be well the answer is that we are re-sculpting uh people's brains or people are re-sculpting their own brains under the influence of psychedelics so there's a paper that just came out a while ago in nature by a neuroscientist at johns hopkins in mice that showed that mdma releases oxytocin which is the hormone of love and connection um nursing mothers and all but it produces um what's called the opening of a social reward learning process so people can you know we socialize more into early ages animals too as well it reopens that but it promotes new connections so new not new neurons necessarily in terms of the birth of new neurons but that does seem to be happening with other psychedelics but it promotes uh synaptic growth and so we're we're creating new neural pathways um just as an example in ptsd we show that ptsd patients have a heightened activity in the amygdala the fear processing part of the brain after mdma therapy the activity in the middle goes down and they've been able to agree it's called fear extinction and memory reconsolidation the memories are put into more long-term storage so there's an enormous amount to be learned from neuroscience research what i'm not sure about is whether the neuroscience research will help the therapy be more effective there's a lot of benefits in neuroscience maybe they'll develop new drugs or you know or just understanding how the brain works can be great in many different ways but the translational neuroscience still remains to be demonstrated that we can take neuroscience findings and turn it into ways to help people better and and then there's you know the the one area of research that hasn't happened yet is psychedelics for esp research i think that would be interesting to happen uh again um but there's just so much that can be learned and it's just so wonderful to be in this period of time in history when um there's more psychedelic research than ever before humanity needs it more than ever before and i think we've grown over the last 50 years as culture as a world so that i think we can introduce and mainstream psychedelics without the backlash that we had before that's the real challenge can we do that well it's really exciting and congrats on those early results and you know the fact that so many different compounds here are are successful in treating a variety of disorders it makes me wonder i mean are there common mechanisms here like you started to talk about deep patterning a little bit like the idea that getting stuck in a mental rut you know this could help us see a different perspective on the world but are there other what do we know about the mechanisms beyond that like why are they so effective yeah i'd say that the fundamental um concept is that symptoms are to not be suppressed but to be explored and experienced so the classic kind of pharmaceutical drugs for psychiatric indications are ones that reduce the symptoms they don't necessarily get to the core of the problem and they're often meant to be taken on a daily basis for months years or a lifetime so the thing about psychedelic psychotherapy [Music] is that the idea the fundamental concept is that the symptoms need to be brought into full awareness and fully experienced rather than suppressed and the psychedelics in a safe supportive environment where the symptoms come to the surface can be profoundly healing so for example there there's a documentary i'd refer to people called trip of compassion and it's on vimeo it's about three of our ptsd patients from the israeli study it's got english subtitles some of it is in english as well but it's the most patient focused documentary ever made about mdma assisted psychotherapy and you can see the symptoms coming to the surface people spend time shaking crying letting out the traumas that when it happened to them the events they had to really um focus on survival and you don't always emotionally process and then you get stuck in those situations some people do and so it's about bringing all that to the surface in a way where you feel safe where you can process it so psychedelics bring things to the surface and that's what's been um so very important so i'd say that that's the fundamental thing is that we're not scared and that there's a difference between an intellectual understanding and an experiential processing so i think a lot of freudian analysis you can think about it as the power dynamics the analyst is um listening to you the analyst is the one that knows the analyst puts a interpretation on you and it's you know the the healing comes from the analyst and it's all cognitive and that's why people have been in psychoanalysis for decades and they don't seem to get much better they're just so um there's an album by uh rita marley who is bob marley's wife and the title is who feels it knows it so i think the psychedelic therapy is about feeling it knowing it and expressing it stan gruff has said um something very poetic and beautiful which is um the full expression of an emotion is the funeral pyre of that emotion so what i and i think that is the focus that they're meaning that everything's in motion the the earth is spinning we're in this universe everything is spinning the sun's gonna die you know there's nothing universal everything is in motion everything is moving we're all connected and when it comes to emotions if you can fully experience something then it will change it moves from sort of foreground to background and a good analogy for this is grief somebody that we love has died or somebody we love has gotten hurt we're sad for something and when you keep your feelings bottled up it always concerns you you're but if you can cry if you can let it out if you can let out the grief then it's not like you're no longer sad that the person that has has died but it's part of what's happened and then you can can move on so i think that's this the core aspect of the therapy is bringing symptoms that have been um too painful for many different reasons been suppressed bringing them to the surface helping people through them and process them and then with the most important part is helping them integrate it so that then they can ground these experiences and operate in new ways without the use of the drugs so that that's another big difference between psychedelic therapy and regular psychopharmacology and that we're not looking to give people drugs every day for the rest of their lives we're looking to give psychotherapy deep profound enhanced by the drugs that then get to the core of the problem and then make it so people don't need the drugs anymore and that's why coming from a non-profit context it's easier for us to focus on that right and i imagine that creates some uh competing interests with the drug companies right i mean what kind i don't know much about public policy but how are you dealing or how are you what kind of pushback are you facing here i was here surprisingly so the reason is because the ssris a lot of these drugs that are really have been very big money makers for pharma are now generic you know they've been invented 20 years ago or more you know where they came on the market and developing new drugs for what are called central nervous system diseases um has been very difficult um there there haven't been a lot of new developments so that that's why um pharma in in general a lot of the pharma companies have abandoned research with cns drugs and a lot of their drugs are now generic so we don't really see any opposition at this point from the farm now the pharmaceutical companies have in the past supported the drug war you know they support partnership for a drug free america and they they've support their drugs are okay but other drugs are bad now you've got to go buy drugs from them and you can't just get marijuana for you know that's changing too so the other part is that the way the fda is structured um if it's designed to insulate the fda reviewers from outside pressure so if one pharmaceutical company could influence the fda and get them to not like a competitor's drug or something like that then all the f the pharmaceutical companies would be doing that and it would gum up the whole works now up until recently um pres president trump has stayed out of politicizing the fda although he has recently tried to politicize the fda when it comes to vaccines and drugs for kobet and so that's been terrible because our whole model of change is based on fda being science over politics they haven't always been that way but since 1992 the fda had a formal advisory committee meeting they decide to put psychedelics back into research science over politics so that has been the way and it's it's a dangerous precedent when that process gets politicized because that's when you can imagine pharmaceutical companies trying to use their political leverage to but but for example if you wanted to call the fda and say hey what's going on with maps's work with mdma fta can't tell you they cannot for privacy reasons they cannot tell you about um what is being studied i mean there you can look at clinicaltrials.gov there's other ways for you to find out but um the main point to your question is that this is a new modality it will replace a lot of other drugs that people are getting but we don't feel that there is opposition from the pharma and to give you one highlight example of that mdma was invented by merck in 19 1912 is when uh so it's it's you know 108 years old mdma um they never tested it in humans um recently you know as i mentioned we've got 70 people in the benefit corporation a lot of them from pharma we call them the refugees from pharma one of them had a friend who was a senior executive at merck and while we were doing work with the fda then we're starting to think about europe and globalization and this was an expert from merck in globalization and this woman joined one of our strategy calls for free consulting with us even though she's from the company that invented mdma and she's helping us try to move it forward so it was very reassuring to see that yeah that's awesome um well i mean just from the outside it truly is a fascinating scene because i from what i'm seeing is silicon valley wealthy entrepreneurs even wall street elites now putting money into this um tim a lot of my updates are coming from tim ferriss you've got the navy seals just put um i think it was fifty thousand dollars into ptsd research um so there's a lot of different interesting like uh kind of players here what what's your take on the landscape in that that's what's new over the last couple years has been the rise of for-profit companies focused on psychedelics so in the past you know when i started maps in 86 there was no hope for investors i mean the research had been shut down you know there was no psychedelic research taking place the fda didn't really start opening the door for years later and there were so many political obstacles so many social cultural fears and concerns resistance people concerned about it at the fda at the regulatory level so it's only been the last couple years that um because of the progress that maps has made and hefter research uh other non-profits beckley foundation in england that have been sort of pioneering this move towards psychedelics it's only because we made enough progress that investors could start coming in and see that they could uh you know possibly make money and that they wouldn't have to worry about all these political and cultural issues so the landscape has fundamentally changed in the last couple years and now there's three companies that are listed on the stock market that have a market cap of 1.5 billion dollars three pharmaceutical companies profit for-profit psychedelic companies oh wow and they're only in phase two and we're in face yeah compass is worth 1.2 billion something like that field trip mind medicine field trip is like 120 million or something mind medicine last week was like 290 million market cap these are companies that have done virtually nothing tell a story right now comp who's done a lot compasses has done a lot um they've raised over 200 million dollars in the capital markets but so so that's part of the but it's not coming from traditional pharma that's the other thing the for-profit work with psychedelics is coming from new companies that have just been set up to focus in this area we don't see big pharma other than the one exception is johnson and johnson which owns jansen which made ketamine s ketamine into a medicine for depression but that's again as ketamine as a pharmacological treatment without psychotherapy to give you a sense of the other kind of landscape for 30 years we have been trying since 1990 to start research inside the veterans administration and the presentation i just gave before this was to the bronx va we have fda irb approval we've got a crata which is a cooperative research and development agreement between the bronx va and maps they're moving forward other va's are very interested and over the weekend i got the news that there's a good chance that the department of defense is ready to fund up to a half a million to a million dollars a small mdma proof of concept study inside a department of defense military active duty soldier context so the culture is moving in in this way and then to speak about the elections that just happened um most of us know who won the presidential election some of us can't figure it out yet but the clear winner is drug policy reform so you know the oregon psilocybin initiative um which creates a mechanism on a state level for people to get access to psilocybin and licensed guides not just for clinical conditions but for personal growth um psychedelics uh plants psychedelics were decriminalized made the loss enforcement priority in washington dc medical marijuana and marijuana legalization passed in every state that it was on the ballot so there's a a general cultural shift that's happening the landscape has never been better for this kind of research and i think what has blocked this research in the past has been this sort of prohibitionist mentality this drug war mentality but now we see that even uh president-elect biden um who did a lot to escalate the drug war even particularly the rave act which was reducing america's vulnerability to ecstasy which criminalized harm reduction was terrible bill and he did do stuff contributed to mass incarceration president-elect biden sees that as a mistake so i think the the overall landscape is very exciting and um one challenge for us since we think that nonprofit development will maximize public benefit and be different than for-profit there's a challenge for us because a lot of people are now saying why should i give you money why don't i just um invest money somewhere else right i'm like well yeah you can and you maybe should invest money but we should be um by virtue of the fact that we pioneered the field through the nonprofit there's a lot of things that are non-monetizable that we want to do in particular um these israelis and palestinians are using ayahuasca and mdma together and we're studying that for cultural uh reconciliation in this unit of mystical experience and working through their traumas and so we do believe that we will tell a different story and we will act in a different way and we will maximize public benefit nonprofit and we think we can make a good enough case to donors that they will continue to donate to maps while they may also send money to for-profit companies where they can invest and i imagine i mean there's got to be the government's got to trust someone to like train the therapist even when these things are legalized right well trust is uh again they um i go back to ronald reagan that trust but verify so the way they verify is they look at our outcomes they they basically the fda's basically left it off up to us to develop the therapy training program and then they look for the effectiveness at the outcomes that we get from the study so the way the way that we think mdma will be made into a medicine this will be true for psilocybin as well is there's called rems which is risk evaluation and mitigation strategies that the fda can customize for each particular drug for psilocybin for mdma the drug is not the therapy it's the therapy it's the psychotherapy the drug makes it more effective so the sponsors of the research train the therapists and the fda will require in these realms that the only people that can prescribe and treat patients are people that have been through the training program to learn the therapy then of course they can innovate if they want to but they've got the basics so that the fda will be relying on us requiring us to do the training of the therapists and only people that we put on a list that have passed our training can be involved prescribing and treating patients and i think the fda doesn't regulate psychotherapy they don't understand psychotherapy uh we're having some problems with the fda because they've indicated in our phase three studies and our phase two studies we have a two person therapy team the often male female but not always the lead person is a licensed therapist the second person is a student even learning to get a license for a while the fda was saying we want the lead person now to become an md or a phd so this is bureaucratic ass covering they think it looks good there's more credentials but it doesn't increase safety or efficacy so we're arguing with the fda about the training program and also about the credentials of the providers but it's really up to us to provide data and then fda has to respond to the data so um there will be um training programs that we're establishing that's going to be the limiting factor to how much this can roll out because it's it's going to require training and and we feel that a lot of the training is actually untraining so you go to a lot of therapists and most of the therapies cognitive behavioral therapy cognitive processing therapy prolonged exposure they're scripted there's lessons there's a whole sort of um cluster you could say um what's the word i'm looking for is um eluding me but uh there's algorithms there's a whole series of algorithms for you know how you do therapy but it's imposed on the person our therapeutic approach is kind of interdirected therapy you give somebody a psychedelic whatever emerges in whatever order is what you deal with and you support it and you don't you support the full expression of it and so a lot of our training is to undrain people from being more interventionist and to become more supportive but but there will be training requirements and we will be sort of negotiating with fda the credentials well that's fascinating um and i i know everyone's um everyone's excited about the direction this is headed in and also you know really like the kind of more cautious approach um than kind of the hippie movement and everything that went wrong there it seems like um a lot of the things that could derail this are being carefully well i i i i hear you well i wanted to say that being an old hippie myself um that the um the times were different so that um we're we've learned a lot i think one of the big mistakes that the hippies made was counterculture the whole idea that psychedelics or counter culture when you set yourself up as counterculture you're going to be squashed right often so we are mainstreaming so we're talking about that i think there was an over-reliance in the 60s on the the hope for a one dose miracle cure makes like alex you have this experience you're enlightened you know more than everybody else and now you're you're a prophet you know so i think that we've gone away from the one dose miracle cure um um and but i think that our our approach while we're more cautious i think people are more desperate the problems are greater the problems of suicide have grown the problems of depression have grown despite the vast increase in the number of people that are medicated for depression or medicated to avoid suicide so that there's um we are careful we are step by step we are incremental um but the the need is greater the culture has grown and so i do think that uh we've got i wouldn't only attribute it to hippies being irresponsible and now we're more wiser yeah well listen speaking of your own experience a couple of rapid fire questions for you here so what is your personal favorite psychedelic well i i don't it's hard for me to answer that because it's different psychedelics for different purposes but i would say that if i was um a sailor on a ship that was shipwrecked and i survived and i was the only one on a deserted island and i could only have one drug um it would be lsd much as i love mdma the thing about mdma is that you can steer it a little bit which is good in therapy but with lsd um you you have a hard time negotiating as your unconscious material comes to the surface you can negotiate with mdma with lsd you kind of really have to let it happen so that if i had just one drug it would be lsd because it would maybe bring me to places that i wasn't quite ready to go to okay but mma it can bring you where you aren't quite ready to go to but it's a more in a gentle way um gotcha um okay if you could have dinner or say smoke a joint with anyone in the world who would it be and why um i could smoke a joint with anybody in the world um well um i guess i i would say uh living or dead how are you uh you know i'm gonna say any time period okay well i i'd be interested in smoking a joint with carl jung and from my understanding um he never did psychedelics but he knew all about them and so i'd be curious he felt that um i mean he was in such touch with his own unconscious he mean you know but it would be carl jung i think um what's something that most people don't know about you um um i would say okay that most people don't know about me that um that my um long term goal is to have a psychedelic clinic on the beach in sarasota florida where i could work with college students who are looking for purpose and meaning in life the same way that my guidance counselor helped me so much that that would be my after we've made psychedelics into medicines i'd like to have a little tiny psychedelic clinic on the beach and work with uh young people and old people too but that's a beautiful vision um all right last question you have a 15 second commercial that goes out to the world what would you say um [Music] that that we have more in common than separate us but that the understanding of our commonality will not be homogenizing us but will help us appreciate differences that paradoxically we see how we're all connected and the same and we can all be more uniquely our individual selves on awesome well listen thanks so much for coming on the podcast and uh yeah it's been really fun speaking with you yeah thank you for the opportunity and if people want to go to the maps.org website there's all sorts of information there oh yeah sorry i normally end with a kind of plug zone um is there yeah so maps.com or maps.org yeah okay nice great thank you yeah thank you so much um i'll uh let you get to your next thing but just really good to meet you and i really appreciate your time and respect all the work that you're doing yeah and i'll just say that we're doing all the scientific work but what's so crucial is public education and so i'm very that's why i said yes and that's why i think what you're doing too is so important to prepare for all the people for the changes ahead and if we can just get honest education out to people um i think the culture really will be ready yeah i think so too well thanks so much and uh have a good rest of your week [Music] you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: dE9A1Zg617U (https://youtu.be/dE9A1Zg617U) ===

is there other studies of this nature that you foresee enabling that same kind of positive impact whether it's mdma for other things like treating addiction or maybe it's psilocybin for uh for other conditions is there something else that's promising yeah i i think that um what we've discovered i don't think is unique to mdma so it's mdma assisted psychotherapy mdma is ideal for ptsd you know maybe it won't work as well for ocd or other things you know it was very strategic why we chose mdma and why we chose ptsd but i i don't think that the results that we've got are so unique to mdma assisted therapy i think that psilocybin assisted therapy is going to be great for people with life-threatening illnesses cancer you know we're anxious about dying it's looks like it's really good in the treatment of addiction again these are in combination with sort of the psilocybin tobacco was cognitive behavioral therapy with psilocybin i think that it's going to be a little bit more difficult psilocybin for depression i don't know if it'll be quite as good you know there are some biological aspects sometimes to depression but i think there'll be really good results for psilocybin for depression i think it'll be approved it's considered a breakthrough therapy by the fda ibogaine is phenomenal for opiate addiction helping people go through the withdrawal and then giving them this chance to deal with the material that they've that drives them for addiction there was ben sessa dr ben sessa in england did mdma for alcohol use disorder and that was really great the results he got and it's it's the case that he ended up basically treating people for trauma it's the trauma that people run the emotional challenges that people run from into quieting that pain through drug addiction or alcoholism so trauma is behind a lot of addiction i i think that we are going to see um a revolution in psychiatry and that there will be a lot of conditions that have left a lot of people still suffering that psychedelic assisted therapy different psychedelics different approaches but i think that we will see a lot of hope for psychiatry and psychotherapy and that psychedelics would be a big part of um changing the practice of of psychiatry and psychotherapy yeah this is really to me fascinating so i i actually um when i was younger for the longest time wanted to be a psychiatrist so i was excited by psychotherapy but then i uh perhaps incorrectly maybe you can correct me but became more and more cynical because it felt like it was more about prescribing drugs than psychotherapy i'm not going to correct you that's i mean right now it's like there is a crisis in psychiatry that there are so many psychiatrists that are so fed up because they have been pharmaceuticalized yes they meet people for 15 minutes they adjust their medications this is the way they make the most money yeah but they've lost the art of talking to people yes it's it's true and that's why we see that so many young psychiatric residents are so thrilled by psychedelics that they really want to get back to treating people as individuals not just a bunch of chemicals yeah that's truly fascinating because the reason it was appealing to me it was a way to to study the human mind and to see ways through talking that you can make people feel better make people better you know make people suffer less and that that was really exciting at the time i ended up then going to ai because then i can understand the mind from that angle but um it's exciting that that that could be also a revolutionize the field of psychotherapy take it from its uh back to its origins to where um a psychiatrist would be a scholar of the mind yeah well you know freud talked about dreams as the royal road to the unconscious and there was a lot of you you really spent a lot of time with people now um right before he died um in in his last book freud wrote something and again this will be a rough paraphrase but he said that in the future we may learn about the energies of the brain and there'll be ways with chemicals to influence that that will help the therapeutic process yeah so you could say he was uh he was ahead of his time yeah you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: sOQyf0bPD7o (https://youtu.be/sOQyf0bPD7o) ===

[Music] ever since i was 18 years old in 1972 for all of my adult life since then i've devoted my life to trying to bring back psychedelic research to become a psychedelic therapist and also to go through my own psychedelic therapy in 1986 i started maps the multi-disciplinary association for psychedelic studies as a non-profit psychedelic pharmaceutical company that would also do public education and drug policy reform because i felt that the psychedelics had been very much suppressed and mdma had just been criminalized in 85 but they had an incredible amount of therapeutic potential i'd been inspired to get involved with psychedelics by books like aldous huxley's doors of perception and also ken kesey's one flew over the cuckoo's nest that was really the the one that broke me through the anti-psychedelic propaganda because i loved that book and a friend of mine after he'd loaned it to me and i turned it back to him he said the author had written part of this book on lsd and i said that's impossible nothing good comes from lsd and he said no it's true and i checked that out and it was true ken kesey did write parts of one floor of the cuckoo's nest while he was under the influence of lsd so that's what really made me start to question the education that i'd gotten and led me to try lsd and mescaline and during those experiences i had this intimation of this ego dissolution and this larger world than just my own individual consciousness however part of something much bigger goes back you know billions of years and connects us up with all of life and all different kind of people that we have way more in common than separate and it felt to me like these experiences were so important to the survival of humanity and also to you know me personally and that they were so suppressed that nixon said that timothy leary was the most dangerous man in america and that made me think what does timothy leary doing right that would have nixon so upset and i felt it was a lot of this sense of how we're all connected and that that would undermine a certain kind of racism prejudice fundamentalism and so basically at 18 years old i decided to devote my life to psychedelics for what it could do for me and others in the in the world in 1984 i actually had an opportunity to work with a friend whose partner was dying of cancer and it was very very difficult for him and he was in great pain and he wanted to [Music] be able to sort of express kind of farewell but he was on such a large amount of opiates that he was basically tranquilized and wasn't really able to do much in the way of communicating and so my friend said to me you know how how do we address this and i said well let's try mdma and mdma is methylene dioxide methamphetamine so it has stimulant properties of methamphetamine so what it did is it synergized with the opiates better pain control than the opiates alone and it woke him up from this narcotic stupor and it was just like there were two people um able to go over the history of their lives and their romantic lives together and it was so beautiful to see them connect in this way and also knowing that they were saying goodbye as well and this fellow then died three days later but that was one of the most precious memories that they had together that the woman who survived was able to really carry forward and she still talks to me these days about how fundamentally important that experience was with them i had one other experience that sticks in my mind a lot it was a friend of mine and her father was dying of cancer in his 50s and she was very close to his father her father and they also decided to do mdma together and during this experience the the father really got this sense that he was so focused on the time that he wasn't going to have that every moment that he did have was painful sad depressed and that he realized that what he should do is that he was still alive he wasn't dead yet that he could focus on the time that he did have and live as fully as he could and that changed his mood so much that he was able to go on and um really enjoyed the time that he had with his family and before he died a couple weeks before he died we had this discussion about how he wondered that this kind of resistance that he had this denial of death that he was doing he wondered if that was linked to his survival and part of this mdma experience was him accepting the reality of his own death and so he just was wondering did that mean that he would die sooner and then we talked about how he'd actually outlived the time frame that his doctors had given him and he enjoyed his life more and he realized that accepting the reality of death doesn't mean that you'll die sooner and in fact because he enjoyed his time more with his daughter with his family that that probably helped him to live even longer and so i think that was a really important lesson that the denial of death that people think is part of fighting the disease may actually debilitate them and the acceptance of death can lead to an appreciation for the joyous nature of the life that they do have and you can sort of take celebration out of tragedy and make these uh moments make the best of the moments that we do have and so i think the use of mdma one day and other psychedelics of course psilocybin lsd in hospice settings in end of life uh will be tremendous i also think early on when people get diagnosed with cancer or some other life-threatening illnesses that psychedelic experiences them to get them into this place of acceptance and appreciation and celebration to take away a lot of the fears and anxieties that there's going to be a lot of use of psychedelics to help facilitate uh the dying process and also you know as they say you know once you're born you're you start the dying process i do think that throughout the lifespan these experiences will have uh tremendous potential and we can weave them into a lot of different therapeutic approaches now psychedelics are there's a range of psychedelics they all have different kinds of effects but they're more similar than different and what they do is they kind of weaken the sense of who we are the ego sense uh it's been called from neuroscientists that's the default mode network that's sort of our resting state of scanning the world for what's important to us as an individual and when that's weakened you kind of see how much we're part of a much bigger picture and that links to these mystical senses of connection and people can draw strength from that uh the most mystical experience i've ever had made it so that i was never as lonely afterwards because i always felt i was connected to this force of love through the universe so i think the use of psychedelics in helping people deal with end of life is going to be one of the most important contributions that psychedelic psychotherapy will make as we go forward into the decades [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: DasQS2p45OQ (https://youtu.be/DasQS2p45OQ) ===

did you know that over 45 of australians will experience mental illness in their lifetime that's nearly half of us i can't sleep everything feels flat and gray i feel ashamed mental ill health devastates lives and families and costs australians around 60 billion dollars a year research and treatment expenses continue to rise yet rates of mental illness indicate that we're losing the battle new approaches are urgently needed to address this immense suffering and cost psychedelic assisted psychotherapy is currently being trialled worldwide and has demonstrated remarkable promise in treating depression anxiety addiction and post-traumatic stress disorder with new trials underway for treatment of dementia and anorexia the treatment combines a short program of psychotherapy with just a few medicinal doses of psilocybin or mdma in the 1950s and 60s psychedelic treatments had a major impact in psychiatry and many considered it the next big thing in mental health treatment but for political reasons the nixon administration criminalised the use of psychedelics and effectively stopped all research that research has finally begun again with proper clinical support psychedelic treatments are safe and frequently lead to remission after only a short program and even where current treatments have failed here at mind medicine australia we believe everyone should have access to the best treatments for mental illness subject to forthcoming clinical trial results we will seek to establish best practice in regulated psychedelic assisted treatment mind medicine australia is wholly focused on the clinical application of psychedelic medicines we're preparing for change by developing therapist training ethical guidelines a centre of excellence in psychedelic medicine educational material and events and supporting clinical research we're a small organization doing big things and we need your support please share this video and visit our website to support us and get involved [Music] this webinar is titled psychedelic renaissance update on research and progress around the world really with one of the world leaders in this space so we're so lucky next slide so just a reminder that our focus is holy clinical we are recording this webinars we do with all our webinars and you can go back and watch all our webinars and we encourage you to share them and spread the word um next slide thank you so mental illness in australia is at alarming levels and around the world and these statistics are pre-covered so they have been significantly um exacerbated by the covert pandemic so pre-covert one in five australian adults had a mental illness one in eight were on antidepressants including one in four older australians with children as young as five being prescribed psychiatric medications since covert we are hearing that four out of five australians say that their mental health has deteriorated during this period and in victoria alone we've had a 33 increase in self-harm by young people estimated that one in two of us will experience a serious mental illness in our lifetimes next slide thank you and there's been no improvement in treatment outcomes over the past 50 years the case of depression only a maximum of 35 of sufferers experience actual remission from pharmacotherapy and or psychotherapy the relapse rates are incredibly high and of course there are very significant side effects of current treatments in the case of ptsd even smaller amount of patients have some response to the existing treatments and remission rates are even lower so more of the same approach is not going to solve the problem that we have next slide so we're a charity set up by my husband and i and actually rick doblin was a huge inspirer in us setting up this charity and we're enormously grateful to rick for his inspiration and guidance along the way but our goal in australia is to help alleviate the suffering caused by mental illness through expanding the treatment options available to practitioners and their patients and that will be done through establishing safe and effective psychedelic treatments our focus at the moment is on psilocybin for depression and medicinal mdma for ptsd but we are also interested in other psychedelics and many of those are being researched around the world for us success means that these therapies become an integrated part of our mental health system that they achieve high remission rates and that they're accessible and affordable to all australians in need next slide as i mentioned before psilocybin for depression and potentially also now being trialed for obsessive compulsive disorder and addictions and as you saw on that video psilocybin is also being trialled for dementia it's also being trialled for a range of other addictions and eating disorders and cluster headaches and a range of things and mdma for uh ptsd in the treatment of addictions but of course was also used for uh relationship therapy and a whole range of things in the 50s and 60s the remarkable thing about these medicines is that they only require two to three dose sessions in contrast to conventional treatments and they involve a course obviously in combination with psychotherapy as well so they we're not at all suggesting that these medicines are taken on their own and of course no one ever gets to take them home they're always used in clinical environments the medicines are considered curative not palliative so they're not simply about managing a condition at the moment for many people mental illness is a life sentence where they have to be on medications or therapy for the rest of their lives and then the wonderful thing about these medicines is that it's a relatively short course leading to remission and rick will talk much further about this the medicines are also considered very safe and non-addictive in medically controlled environments and both have been granted breakthrough therapy designation by the fda in the us to fast-track the approval process and this designation is only given to medicines that are considered vastly superior to existing treatments next slide thank you so what happens with these medicines well this is some diagrams here on the right fmri representations uh of a person who has depression so on the right you can see the very limited neural networks the the repeated thought loops i'm not good enough life is not going to work out for me and and all those sorts of negative thoughts and not very many connections there at all whereas on the left with the intervention of the psilocybin you see this massive increase in neurogenesis these incredible neural connections which lead to a sense of oneness and connection increased creativity a sense of worth a sense of belonging a sense of empowerment that leads patients to more actively cope with their mental illness and to give them a sense of agency for healing themselves rather than taking daily pills or you know going into you know more traditional ways of thinking and this is done because these medicines bypass what's known as the default mode network of the brain which keeps us stuck in very rigid thought loops next slide thank you actually we'll just go back on that for a moment the other thing so i'll just go back on that one the other thing i like to think of is it for you know for many people they describe using these medicines as hitting the reset button or the reboot button or in some cases defragging the the faulty hard drive you know removing all the baggage that we're carrying along and clearing out the cache um or the cookies the negative cookies and we'll move now to the next slide so our strategy is four key pillars our goal is to build the ecosystem for australia in the asia pacific region we do that through awareness and knowledge building a range of education and events like today's event webinars screenings like next week's screening with stan groff and chris bridger groff of his new film the way of the psychonaut a major international medical summit in november in 2021 which was moved from last week to then and which rick will be attending and many of the other leaders in this field so we encourage you if you haven't registered for that yet to please join us we're also very interested in novel research and we've started over 25 state and regional chapters in australia and in new zealand to build a grassroots movement to educate and build awareness around australia and the asia pacific we've also launched the first certificate in psychedelic assisted therapies in the southern hemisphere and that's our cpat significant psychedelic therapies course being led by renee harvey who's a wonderful psychologist out of the uk who worked on the psilocybin trials at imperial college our first intake which commences in january is full we have a wait list for that and our second intake of july is about half full so if you're a therapist out there and you want to be involved in that then register soon so you don't miss out we'll be holding subsequent intakes in 2022 and so on we're also looking at setting up an asia pacific centre and emerging mental health therapies in partnership with universities for applied research and development development of supply chains in australia economic modelling and education and then of course we're looking at the preferred legal and ethical frameworks for these medicines so we've done rescheduling applications as you all know for psilocybin and mdma for those of you who are familiar with us you know that we did them a few months ago and we had the public consultation period in august and september and we expect to hear an interim decision in february for those we also are seeing some sasb expanded special access scheme approvals occurring for psychiatrists and practicing physicians who have patients who are treatment resistant to existing treatments and who are in danger and who need access to psilocybin or mdma assisted therapies so we've seen quite a number of approvals take place through our tga in australia we also have set up a psychological support service to provide support and integration support for those who are using these medicines and need further guidance not that we advocate for recreational or other use but people do use these medicines and we provide support to those people using the medicines and also doctors who need support for patients who might be working with those medicines we're also working on a roll out strategy with clinics and some of you will have seen the announcement on the asx last week about the partnership with the meria to set up some psychedelic clinics in australia next slide thank you so now we go to open the screen for the chat with a lick so can i see rick up the top actually ilan because for some reason i can't see him right at the top sorry that's something that you must do from your own but okay okay now okay wonderful hey rick um so rick i mean for those of you uh that don't know rick and i'm sure that all of you have heard of rick because he's so famous and um for those of you that don't know rick i mean i will just say that he's one of the most impressive and persistent uh and caring and compassionate people that i've come across he's genuinely in this field for the greater good not for his own [Music] financial gain or any other self-glorification he is also really i mean he's dedicated his whole life to this field um and you know i i see early images of him i think i see images of you from years ago sitting in esselin with some of the leaders in this field i've seen some photos of that rick and um he's really brought um really he's he's largely responsible with you know some of the other ambassadors particularly roland griffiths i guess and david nut and others this renaissance um in these medicines and has dedicated how long rick now well maps of 34 years uh from 1986 i had a non-profit before that that i started in 84. yeah sue the dea to try to keep mdma legal but it's really since 48 years ago since i was 18 when i first read stan groff that i decided to focus my life on psychedelics well it hasn't aged you because you look way younger than what you really are but um rick is you know rick of course and maps are the organization responsible for you know the fact that mdma is now in phase 3 trials in the us he's responsible for the fact that these medicines are going to be prescribable pretty soon excitingly soon and um he's responsible for much else so we're looking forward to a very very interesting conversation with you rick and what i thought that we might start off with and just bearing in mind rick that we have about 25 to 30 minutes 25 minutes let's say for this conversation so though i know you'd love to talk and you're fascinating we have quite a few questions and i want to leave enough time for some questions from from the audience um so i'll ask quick questions sort of quickish answers um and let's see where we can get to with this conversation so just a little bit about you your background and your work really how how you came into this field why you became interested in psychedelics as a cure for mental illness how you first heard about them and your formative experiences that have led to now in a nutshell well i'll just say that um i was born in 53 uh jewish parents and educated from a very early age about the holocaust and so that was both terrifying but it it led me to think about the mind and how people could believe irrational things how people can be motivated by fears and anxieties and believe it irrational things and how they can dehumanize others and that was just a something that i had to wrestle with as i was growing up um later as a young boy in the cuban missile crisis and this whole thing about the us and russia getting into a nuclear war and they teach you to um duck and cover under your um desk that was terrifying so again it just seemed like insanity that humanity destroying itself for a lot of psychology then the final step for me was um vietnam and that was my own country um just by the way during the the cuban missile crisis and later on i read the book on the beach which was i don't know if you guys remember that book but it's about people in australia it's the last place where the radioactive cloud comes and it's people waiting to to die from that it's sort of a incredible book but for me the vietnam war was the final step when i was you know having to register and i decided i'd studied a lot about non-violent resistance um social change and so i plan to go to jail basically to then not register and my parents were my dad's a doctor my mom's a teacher and they were like that's okay but you're never going to be able to have a real job because you'll be a felon and you can't be a doctor or lawyer you can't get a license all that kind of stuff and i said all right well i'll just have to figure out something else to do and when i was growing up though i believed all the propaganda about lsd you know that it caused you if you took it six or seven times you were certifiably insane that it would help you uh or destroy your chromosomes and you'd have deformed babies that it would just you know that everything was a hallucination a delusion there was nothing valuable to it so i believed all that i was interested in studying the other in this case russia my parents sent me to russia spent a summer there i studied russian in high school and a friend of mine in russian class gave me a book to read and after i read this book i was just like this is incredible book and i give it back to my friend and he said do you realize that the author wrote some of this book while he was under the influence of lsd and my thought was that's impossible how can you do anything good when you're under the influence of lsd it must be something wrong so i checked it out and turns out he was right so that's what opened me up to lsd the book was one flew over the cuckoo's nest by ken keezy as you might have guessed and then when i was in college i decided to start taking lsd and also mescaline so someone came by my college with half a pound of masculine synthetic masculine so i decided to buy it all and friends and i just uh consumed it and shared it with some of our friends and so i my early experiences are with lsd and mesclun and i had these uh intimations of uh beyond ego ego dissolution this sense of how we're all connected it was always difficult because i was emotionally immature that i was scared of letting go i really couldn't open up to my feelings um but it gave me enough of a sense that there was something valuable there so but i did have a lot of problems so i went to the guidance counselor at college and i said help me with my lsd trip and this was 1972 and um i was at a private college called new college in florida sarasota florida and the guidance counselor took me seriously which would never happen today you'd get in big trouble but the guy took me seriously and he said there's a book i'd like you to read and it was realms of the human unconscious by stan groff about his lsd work and what was so amazing is that this guidance counselor had a manuscript copy of the book the book wasn't published till 1975. so he had a manuscript copy and he knew stan groff so but it was reading the book that all things came together for me and basically it was the spiritual mystical experience that is part of our capacity that that you can get to with or without psychedelics but that felt to me like um politically essential that the antidote to genocide to racism to destroying the environment is to realize and feel that we're all connected and you can say that but that's one thing but if you can feel it and you know it that's another thing so what really got me into psychedelics was political the idea that we have more and more people that need to feel this sense of connection and the political implications of that and at the time that this was happening in america we were also shooting um people to the moon and the astronauts came back from the same kind of thing looking at the earth from space talking about uh you don't see the plant the the boundaries of the countries you don't see religions you just see how we're all part of this one magnificent uh thing and based on that you know i thought well it's a lot easier to take lsd than to go up to the moon wow rick i mean you have such an interesting story um by the way just before i ask you the next question i just i always acknowledged country but i i forgot today so i'm very sorry about that i will just do so now so i just like to acknowledge the lands and the ancient people the indigenous cultures of the lands on which all of us come from the elders past and present and future and i also want to acknowledge the medicine keepers the people who've kept these medicines and and shown the light and led the way with these medicines through the ages to where we are now because if it weren't for them we wouldn't be having this conversation right so we acknowledge all of them and thank them for leading and and we hope that all of you in this movement will continue to shine light into the darkness into the shadows to make sure that real healing can occur for as many people as possible um rick last week there was an article published which which um publication was that was a significant article about you um would you just like to to share oh yeah everyone that article just briefly just briefly and we'll put a link to it if well that was going to be composed and it was um syndicated if that's the article you mean about it yeah was it the washington post you said no the jerusalem post oh the jerusalem post yeah that's the one right yeah and so it's just about um you know how it is that um judaism the holocaust things like that have inspired me to focus on um psychedelics um and and yeah it was good biography and and one of the things that i really liked it had a picture of me when i was uh 13 i had my bar mitzvah and so part of the things that i used to uh do to annoy my parents is i would tell them that they drove me to lsd i've told that to my parents too they dragged me to mushrooms yeah yeah well what i told my parents though is that my bar mitzvah failed to turn me into a man and i had been led to believe that this rite of passage was going to have some fundamental spiritual impact and so what it said it was it was a good party i had to study a lot for it you know but spiritually it kind of left me empty and so when i first started taking lsd and masculine i felt aha this is what my bar mitzvah should have been you know this is existential questions where do i fit in with the world what's uh what's my place what can i do what what what is what what's just beyond our little life you know how do we get here so i felt that the lack of real rights of passage used to work in the past for a lot of people and and i'm sure still do work for some people but for me i think we have um a real need for for powerful rites of passage that really impact us on deep profound levels and i think a lot of the recreational use of psychedelics or or non-medical use of psychedelics is about people seeking those rights of passage absolutely without elders without guidance without a full understanding of the the psychodynamics and so oftentimes it can go wrong and particularly if you use it in these quote you know non-medical recreational settings if you're just looking to have a good time and difficult stuff comes up you could end up trying to suppress those emotions end up worse off so it's it's not always healthy but i do think it's this urge for the spirituality the sense of connection that we're often separated from the environment and all that that drives a lot of people towards psychedelics and in many cases in most cases i think it works out great yeah what's interesting because we had um doctor anna rubenstein who's on our advisory panel who's an expert in rights of passage talking about this a few weeks ago you should have a look at his his webinar rick i'll um elan if you could send if you could send that to rick i think it'll be fascinating but this whole concept of sort of vision quests or this this passage from you know that 12 13 year old like i was meant to have a butt mitzvah but i refused because i found out out about the holocaust when i was about 12 and i just turned away from a religion altogether at that time because i felt that it was not like for me i always had this sense of you know non-duality and i wanted that as as part of my life so we'll share that with you yeah although i will say that i think an important point we're coming to understand is that um that this sense of non-duality the sense of all things being together can go can coexist with an appreciation for the uniqueness and individuality of everyone so that it's this sort of paradox that the more that you we feel this sort of connection into one thing the more then we can come out and appreciate differences rather than be scared of them and so i think that both of those things go together the more you can um become individuated become yourself and then more you can also appreciate our commonality absolutely and embrace positive human collisions with people who are very different from you yes yeah um so what was it that made you actually want to start maps just to start this organization well um maps well to go back so when i was 18 i felt we need to bring psychedelics back we need to help more people have these experiences these universe unit of experiences i i went to the guidance counselor as i said but i really couldn't handle i i overestimated um my um this idea i thought mistakenly that the more drugs you take the faster you evolve and so i overestimated the power of the drug and i underestimated the power of integration and the necessity to integrate it so i basically spent 10 years dropped out of college got into physical things built houses and spent 10 years and then when i went back to college my first semester i went back to study with stan groff and at esslin institute in big sur california and i spent a month with uh stan and christina and that's where i learned about mdma so i thought aha in 72 i learned about lsd right after the backlash after all these drugs were criminalized after research was shut down after nixon declared the war on drugs and now i learned about mdma before it was criminalized but i knew that it was going to be criminalized because when i learned about it it was both an underground therapy drug that was legal but kept quiet called adam but it was also just starting to be sold as ecstasy so i thought ah here's a chance to try to protect this psychedelic and we can introduce it to various different people who might try it because it's illegal but wouldn't try an illegal drug so but i knew that this was nancy reagan ronald reagan just say no escalation of the drug war again so mdma was doomed so i started a non-profit before maps in 84 to protect mdma and then the dea the drug enforcement administration moved to criminalize mdma and we had 30 days for a public comment period and and i went to dc and went into dea headquarters took them completely by surprise and we got a hearing and we won the hearing the judge said mdma should be illegal for recreational use but legal for medical use which which in in us was schedule three but the administrator of the dea rejected the recommendation for bogus reasons we sued twice in the appeals court and won and eventually the dea lawyers figured out how to satisfy the courts so i started maps because the legal route to keep the therapeutic use of mdma available had been exhausted and the only way that i could see to bring it back was through science through medicine but specifically through drug development research to make mdma into a medicine so i started maps as a non-profit psychedelic pharmaceutical company and that was the impetus was trying to find a new way forward to um tell the story of mbma and of psychedelics and i felt that because there was so much demonization of psychedelics and so much uh negative propaganda that um the only way we could um counteract that was through science so what we know is that the media will report scientific studies so you can get earned income in a sense you can you do a research project but you can get millions of dollars worth of publicity about it because you know media is always looking for new scientific studies so i started maps as the only way i could imagine to bring back therapeutic use of mdma and and also just share that it was because my mdma experiences were so profound and so deep and and yet mdma being so gentle is the gentlest of all the psychedelics yeah easiest to integrate because it's not so much ego dissolution it's just a different way of processing emotions it's like a deep breath a good way to say it um that's a lovely way of putting it yeah it's just like you settle into yourself it's filled with self-love self-acceptance so i felt that mdma was the most gentle of the psychedelic and the easiest to bring forward more than the classic psychedelics like lsd or psilocybin and so as it's turned out uh 34 years later we're in phase three as you mentioned but um we're the only psychedelic assistant psychotherapy in phase three the other psilocybin are in phase two still and i think because um in a way of first off that i started by with the plan to make it into a medicine i wasn't interested in um mechanism of action or academic research it was always about making it into a medicine so our first studies were designed in that way to deal with the fda um and also that um we picked a patient population ptsd patients that um you know as you showed earlier you know there's a general understanding that there's a need for new medicines that there's a lot of treatment resistant people and politically we had to pick a patient population that people appreciate it because again the stigma these are demonized and so in america pretty military culture you know the veterans are held in high regard also women who've been sexually abused are the main people would have ptsd in america and around the world um or childhood sexual abuse or domestic violence and so we had a sympathetic group of patients we had a perceived need for new treatments and we were able to have a drug mdma that's ideal for ptsd so all of that is what i knew beforehand and that's why i started maps and you've been i mean you've been stunningly successful um in running maps your your drive your entrepreneurial um skills your your persistence in in raising funds i mean it's it's really quite exceptional um you know what has what has been driving you the most in in in this well um we we have raised over 100 million dollars in donations incredible just incredible but as you will know tanya that the thing about running a nonprofit is you always need more money uh it's not quite enough but the drive was um and it was reported in this article again it was a dream that i had when i was in my 20s and it was um for those of you that have seen the movie 2001 space odyssey which is an incredible movie in the end there's a picture there's a scene with the astronaut is on his deathbed in this all white room and this is before the birth of sort of the star child and you know the cosmic understanding but in any case the dream when i was in my 20s was i was in that room there was somebody on his deathbed and he told me that he was a holocaust survivor and that he had miraculously survived and he knew that he had a purpose but he wasn't sure what the purpose was but but this miraculous survival left him feeling that he had a purpose and so in my dream he showed me back how he almost got killed and what happened there and then we're back in the room and then he says my purpose is to tell you to be a psychedelic therapist and to learn go through your psychedelic therapy and to try to bring back psychedelic research so i always felt that um that's the deepest motivation but but the the other thought is that humanity as a whole um you you could do a good job to uh diagnose humanity as a whole so we're like a cancer on the planet we're uh you know certifiably insane we're destroying our own environment we're destroying other species we're really good at repression and denial um i mean we're just getting over some of that with trump and that we are heading off a cliff you could say unless we wake up and become more spiritual and more loving for others and learn to appreciate differences so it always felt to me that um the most important thing that i could do with my life was to help people have these experiences and once i learned about mdma then it was also about sort of cleansing the doors of perception that with trauma you always see the world through trauma from the past you don't see it for as it is and you you carry pains and and things from the past and you overlay it on the present you know we've got people that have been killing each other um you know sunnis and shiites have been killing each other for you know 1400 years catholics and protestants have been killing each other you know it's just you know so i always well i should say that my parents when i was 18 i said i'm going to drop out of school i want to study lsd and i want you to pay for it super lucky because they said yes great parents well and i always felt like you know and the way they shared this with me too is that i was the product of um immigrants my great my great-grandparents came from russia in 1880 to america my grandparents came in 1920 um on one side and so i felt like i was the the product of multiple generations immigrants coming to america the american dream they made it successful and so my parents basically said um we will make sure you don't starve that you can do whatever you want in your life you know we'll provide food and shelter you can do whatever you want in your life and so i felt that what i was doing was dealing with deeper threats and that that my best response was bringing forth psychedelics and and rick i mean you know you could be a very wealthy man by now um if you'd set up maps as a pharmaceutical company and you know and got a lot of capital out of it why like you know having set up a not-for-profit ourselves peter's here as well and um you know he he asked if if you could explain to everyone why you went down this not-for-profit route as opposed to a for-profit route and which i think is really important for people to hear that well i'll say that there are several people that just you know over the last um year or two have made hundreds of millions and billions of dollars in psychedelic compass pathways a market cap of 1.2 billion yeah christian anger meyer made somewhere like three the biggest stockholder made 300 million dollars there's field trip ventures it's got a market cap of 295 million dollars um mine medicine is you know so there's um but the reason that i went nonprofit is because that was the only way that would work only in the last couple years have people been able to say that they could tell a story to investors that wasn't ridiculous they could say and this is the result of maps hefter which is another group that funded clinical research the beckley foundation in england there's a small group of swiss psychiatrists that did this but what we were able to do over roughly 30 years was clear out the regulatory obstacles at fda and you know the tga were hoping you know and others and that we were able to change public opinion so that there was a support so that there wasn't going to be obviously a backlash again although we have to be careful about that so the for-profit story has only been possible in the last couple years and so when i started maps the government funding was not available major foundations were not interested the only way forward was as a non-profit and so that that's the way i did it and now it's a little bit of a struggle because now so many people think well look at all these people making money why should i donate money yeah it's a challenge that we have yeah we have a lot of people who i mean thankfully like you we do have a lot of people who who are philanthropic and donating and you know and like to everyone out there on this webinar you know small and large donations are all significant for this movement but you know what we say to a lot of investors we have a lot of investors approaching us wanting to make money out of this field we say look donate first so that you actually you know show your ethical you know um i guess values for this field and the importance of actually getting people well which is why we're really here um that's the whole purpose right is to get get this planet healthy again right yeah and one of the advantages of being non-profit is that so our goal is mass mental health that's always this is you know spiritualizing humanity you know two routes one is through medicine making medicines and that that's a good way to get science to change people's attitudes but the other is drug policy reform which as it's a fundamental human right people should have access to these drugs for their own personal growth for their spirituality um and basically what we're trying to do is make it so people can get access to psychedelics without having to buy it from us or from any pharmaceutical company and to do self-healing now there's a lot of people that don't want the supervision of therapists hopefully we're going to get insurance coverage for that but being a non-profit we don't have to return money to investors so when we do work on drug policy reform we're the only company in the field here of psychedelic medicine that's actively involved in drug policy reform other people are like stay away from that it's too controversial or why should we do that then you're going to give people the ability to buy from other sources so psilocybin we have you know truffles are legal in the netherlands but we're starting to see in the united states uh the oregon psilocybin initiative that just passed the initiative that there's multiple cities that have made mushrooms and plant psychedelics the lowest enforcement priority so i like the freedom to operate in a non-profit context because what we can do is really put public benefit and drug policy reform as our top priority rather than um the profit yeah that's right you can't take it with you anyhow right so yeah well we are still though the difference is and i'll explain that um and one of the we are still trying to make a profit so um we have two companies so maps is the non-profit people donate to maps they get a tax deduction we've created the maps public benefit corporation which is for-profit maps was created april 1986 december 2014 is when i created the public benefit core and that is because the sale of mdma by prescription if we want to make a profit it's taxable it's not something that could stay inside the nonprofit so the story that we're telling donors and why i think it's been helpful to us is that there's an endless number of things to study with psychedelics so many different applications so many different clinical conditions but what we're saying to donors is that what we're hoping to do is to eventually have products to sell that we're one of the few non-profits that is trying to have a product meaning prescription use of mdma and so we will supplement philanthropy with earned income event so that's the story to donors but we're gonna you know price mdma and sell it in a way that is uh still maximizing public benefit not profit and we have a different attitude towards competitors so there's groups that are now trying to develop um modifications of mdma that they say would be better than mdma and so our attitude to that is you know go for it we want to help you that's great if you can get better drugs on mdma and we've made it possible and we've cleared out the space and now you've got investors and they're doing all this drug development that's fine you know we don't have to return money to investors and we we really are about what's best for the patient so that's that testing yeah just a question here that i i i mean obviously you know the phase three studies are you able are you at liberty to give us a little sneak sneak peep snapshot of where things are at yeah i can say so and there's a big big connection to australia too so i'll i'll say that um announcement coming up everyone well yeah very uh well there's a lot of details i'm not going to be able to share until we get it in a scientific paper but uh we're hoping to have the paper published um sometime in january so um what we negotiated with the fda and and we also have sites in israel and canada so we will be working with the ministry of health in israel and health canada and the fda and so we negotiated two 100 person phase three studies it took us 30 years from 1986 to 2016 to have the end of phase two meeting fda said yes to go to phase three so we have now finished the first of the two phase three studies and what i can say first off is that the results were better than we had even hoped it's incredible and so it's statistically significant terrific record of safety and what we're now in a large effect size so it's so good that we are now going to have meetings with the fda in january to discuss whether we can accelerate the approval and shorten the second phase three study wow we have the kind of data that permits you to ask for approval after a single phase restudy um because it's psychedelics i don't think the fda is going to say yes to that but um we do have some ethical concerns now about having a study with severe ptsd patients chronic severe ptsd patients unlike most studies with ptsd we enroll people that have attempted suicide in the past they we don't automatically exclude them and so it's been very difficult for people who are in our control group which is therapy without mdma so one group gets therapy without mdma the other group gets therapy with mdma so everybody gets therapy and the therapy can be effective but we've had people in the control group that are so hoping for mdma and the therapy for many doesn't work because the pain is so great they can't really bring the traumas to the surface to process them so people have attempted suicide people have hospitalized in order to avoid attempting suicide so at least we think we've got a good argument to make that there's ethical concerns about having a control group in our next phase iii study so we'll see what the negotiations will will turn out to be but we're we're hoping to persuade the fda at least in that but we're still end of 2022 early 2023 is when we'll have approval and where that this comes around to the australia and the tga is that they may approve either a compassionate use or some other kind of um expedited access on the basis of just one phase three study so they're already um approved the um the compassionate users you know through um what's called our sasb scheme so we have seen a number of approvals come true for that and i think you've very much laid the groundwork for that yeah that's great that's great we're going to be writing up our results for publication we think we'll get it published in january and then our first big step is to bring it to the tga and see what they say well that would be great so just interestingly enough um what we're seeing rick we we we have a federation here so we are getting approvals federally but some different states have these old laws that only relate to recreational use and they don't have exemptions for medical use so we're having some problems in some states bringing the medicines into those states so even though the psychiatrist is getting approval to treat the patient we can't bring the medicines into some states which is why the rescheduling is so important right yeah you know we we have somewhat of a similar situation in the u.s where once the fda says yes and reschedules roughly 25 states automatically follow the federal government and will reschedule but another 25 states require different kind of things california actually requires a law to pass the legislature to reschedule drugs yeah a couple other states do as well so we're going to work cut out for us on the state level yeah that's where the big challenges do lie so just a question for you you know there's always obviously you know unfortunately been this stigma attached to these to these medicines and do you believe that even once their prescribable as medicines as you predict in you know 2022 for example do you believe that there's still going to be fear from the population about them and what other barriers might there be for these medicines to be adopted for uh treatment for psychiatry and other you know other illnesses well i i'll say there's still going to be fear uh i should say that if i'm about to take a big dose of lsd i'm kind of scared myself know i mean if you don't approach a large dose of lsd with some fear you're not paying attention so so i think that you know you're losing control you're giving up control your ego is dissolving people confuse it with ego death with physical death who knows what's going to come up you know there's a lot of stuff we've repressed that comes up that you need to deal with that you're a better person if you deal with it but a lot of times you don't want to deal with it so i i think the irrational fear or um i think that there's so much irrational fear um i i think what's going to happen is that once we do get approval for either the tga fda ema things like that that we will be able to implement that there will be enough data on safety and efficacy enough support by psychiatrists and psychotherapists but for there to be real massive changes in public attitudes to reduce the fear to reduce the stigma i think what we're going to need is about a decade of rolling out psychedelic clinics yeah and and these are going to be clinics where people are cross-trained the therapists are cross-trained in ketamine and mdma and psilocybin you know i've been talking to some groups that are trying to work on 5-meo dmt and to medicalize that they'll be a whole host of psychedelics and people will be cross-trained in all of them and then you go and you get your personalized um psychedelic medicine and several different trips and different you know drugs in different orders hopefully covered by insurance and so we're going to need about a decade of that and then i think 2035 is the date that we're currently predicting or drug policy reform to have what we call licensed legalization where these drugs become legally available um now decrim is one thing so for example the portugal model is really good where you know drugs are decriminalized but dcrim doesn't permit you to have commercial sales and it doesn't necessarily mean that you have pure drugs and sometimes you don't have harm reduction and treatment on demand so i think the most important thing to change people's minds is talking to other people who have stories about psychedelics helping them so what we see with marijuana was that medical marijuana in america preceded the move towards legalization and the people that we're working with are very sophisticated in terms of um politics polling post groups all this kind of stuff and so the most important factor for whether someone is in favor of the legalization of marijuana is whether they know a medical marijuana patient it's not whether they smoke pot themselves it's whether they know a medical marijuana patient so what we're going to need to do to really get at the stigma and the fear in the population is just to start producing thousands and thousands and thousands of successfully treated patients yeah well actually you'll be very interesting because we've just um and and and um for those of you that don't know we've just announced that we're going to have um an australian stories of healing book which basically documents um people's stories of healing through these medicines and people can submit their stories to that book and it's going to be launched next year so we'll definitely share a copy of that with you and we need those books all around the world right that is exactly right i mean people well okay so the government fda tga they respond to data they don't even want to hear stories they want the abstracted data but most people don't care about the data they respond to stories yeah and that's what's it's so important that's great to hear share your stories everyone so important well there's such a range of people on this call you know there's a lot of therapists there's people from various different governments there's academics and there's patients with lived experience as well well maybe i just add them that then when i graduated college i wanted to become a clinical psych phd student to do psychotherapy outcome research but nobody would let me in so that's where i um shifted went to the kennedy school government at harvard and that's where my master's in phd is in sort of public policy so yeah for all the people that are here from reagan from government or whatever i'll just say that it's um really important the policies that we set up are very crucial and a lot of times there's they're um not as wise as they need to be particularly when it comes to drug policy yeah um you've also spoken a lot about the importance of you know obviously training therapists you and i have had many conversations about that but also you've spoken quite a bit about um group therapy yes as a means not only to reducing costs and creating greater accessibility but because it actually might create better outcomes for some how would you like to just describe that briefly well let me let me give you an example so we just had a training for therapists in europe this was not just europe though so 70 it was like a week of watching videotapes of um mdma ptsd sessions and talking about our treatment method and and talking about why did the therapist say this or that and um and we had um people throughout europe for us are moved to europe but we also had people from south africa from somaliland um and one of the people that one of the things that uh the people from somaliland said is how do we bring mdma assisted psychotherapy to somaliland where there's hardly any psychiatrists or psychotherapists and so we need to find new group therapy models with different sorts of healers for for certain places in the world now for group therapy what we're thinking of for ptsd again because it's uh we work with the hardest cases um i think the first protocol that we're going to experiment with is going to be um where there's group preparation and everybody gets to know the therapist group preparation but then there's individual preparation and individual sessions so the first session that a ptsd patient has with mdma is just with two therapists with them then there's individual integration then there's group integration and then we're going to go to group preparation and then a group administration so we're approaching it in a very cautious uh sequential step-by-step way there is a bunch of studies that have shown that group therapy does not work as well as individual therapy for ptsd um some of these studies that have been done by the va you know when there's a lot of shame and um stigma about you know for veterans you know you're you're weak if you have ptsd or sexual abuse or things people victims tend to blame themselves so sometimes it's harder to um sort of discuss what's really happening in a group so that that's one concern that we have other times we see like with alcoholics anonymous sometimes group therapy seems to make things even easier for people so so that's what we're doing i could work with mdma therapy with alcohol like the bences study that's happening at the moment for example yeah yeah but that was again was all individual therapy but but i think actually yeah rick for depression well those are still individual administrations so the closest that we've got is um four people getting psilocybin at the same time in different rooms each with one therapist and then two therapists that are the senior ones rotating from room okay so it's still you know they have group preparation group integration but the sessions themselves are um individual and with mdma though because it's um not so ego dissolution and people want to talk with others that group therapy may work pretty well and i'll just go another big leap is uh into the raves and to the kind of psychedelic parties that people have where groups are taking psychedelics together and there's a lot of healing going on there's a lot of communal feeling there's a lot of processing um so we do have some examples of sort of modern rites of passage in raves and the grateful dead concerts and other things where i believe there's actually a lot of healing going on but there's a lot of people that are not prepared and there's a lot of people that have or end up worse off by their psychedelic use in those situations too because they're looking just for happy feelings if difficult stuff comes up they suppress it and that makes it worse or they just don't pay attention to integration or they're drinking and doing other drugs all at the same time and they get confused so uh but but i think you're right group therapy is going to be a big one for insurance coverage can we reduce the cost yeah and so probably the first group therapy study we start will be inside the portland va oh that'd be fascinating really fascinating we'd love to to work with you on that as well so we should definitely talk about that there's a question here too about um what do you think um is better for depression mdma or silicon well obviously psilocybin is the one that's been indicated but did you want to comment on that we've just spoken to people today who are one so what we do is we have map sponsored studies but we also have what are called investigator initiated trials people come to us and they have ideas of what they want to study and we help them they spawn they're the sponsor we have them so there's just been a group who's come to us about working with mdma with treatment resistant depression or mdma with major depression disorder you know we have um ketamine that's pretty helpful for depression we have electroconvulsive therapy that helps some people uh for depression we we um you know which drug is better i think is a difficult question to answer um and i think the other part is that there's no um this drug is better for this condition it's you also have to bring in the factor of the individual yeah some drugs may be better for some people than for others but ideally what i think we're going to end up with is mdma being the most gentle i think even for depression people get an mdma experience and then one or two of those then they go to psilocybin or lsd for ayahuasca or ibogaine or something like that so um and then maybe they end up with mdma which sort of helps them integrate it but as far as which drug is better um it's really hard to say there haven't been head-to-head studies of course i'd say mdma feels to me like the best for ptsd yeah there's a lot of vets have been going down to um mexico for ibogaine yes a lot of them going to ayahuasca to south america for ptsd and it can be helpful psilocybin could be helpful for ptsd but i just think mdma is unique for that i don't know that there is a drug that's unique for depression but for opiate addiction um i would say ibogaine was probably the best for that so there may for couples therapy i would say mdma is the best definitely you know but for depression we'll just have to see but but in the end i really think people should go through a sequence of mdma and then classic psychedelics as well okay thank you um there's another question here i'm currently an undergraduate studying pharmacology toxicology in the us and researching grad school programs i really would like to focus on psychedelics we get a lot of people like this what type of grad program would be best to consider neuroscience neurobiology neuropharmacology any schools you'd recommend in the us or internationally well there's sort of two things wrapped up in that question um to be a psychotherapist if that's your interest if you want to work with patients with mdma with lsd psychedelic psychotherapy you don't need to know neuroscience you know and in fact there's a whole field called translational neuroscience you know what what what do you learn from neuroscience how do you translate it into helping patients it's not clear to me that that there's any translation like that you know i mean people have been using psychedelics for thousands of years um people have been using mdma and lsd for decades and decades and decades and the therapeutic approach has been pretty well refined what we learned from neuroscience sort of is helpful for regulatory agencies maybe it's helpful for developing new drugs maybe but we've yet to see that it's helpful for refining our therapeutic approaches so for a student that's interested in getting involved with psychedelics you really need to think what is it that you want to be doing so i think you know studying mechanisms of action is very interesting but that's a different track than studying to be a therapist yeah i'd say figure that out um secondly there are more and more schools we that are interested in training psychedelic therapists there's a naropa institute in boulder colorado it's sort of buddhist oriented school but they do a lot of psychotherapy training there's the california institute for integral studies that has got programs for psychedelics um there's everybody in their brother now is trying to set up psychedelic research center so there's one at yale one at harvard one at nyu uh one at uc san francisco one at uc berkeley one at medical university of south carolina they're they're all so there's more and more opportunities for people to um you know go to schools for their psychedelic research but my basic advice would be if you want to be a therapist with psychedelics just become a good therapist and then you can weave in the psychedelics but you know most any school that can teach you to be a good therapist is good preparation for psychedelics but a lot of the therapies are too cognitively oriented that they really take into account somatic stuff the body the non-states of consciousness so humanistic and transpersonal schools there's graduate school humanistic and transpersonal psychology i would recommend those more likely one of our donors is a billionaire who started godaddy which is big you know for websites and stuff he had ptsd from vietnam he just recently gave us two million dollars but he went to the university of maryland which is or the university of baltimore excuse me in baltimore and so he's interested in working with us to have them start a training program for their they already do train therapists and he wants to help them understand psychedelics yeah and they have americans and it'll be therapists of color that will train but so it there's more and more opportunities but i think you really for the question you have to refine what you want to do post school and that'll determine where you go and for those of you in australia and new zealand of course join our certificate in psychedelic assisted therapies which covers all of those somatic and transpersonal aspects that that people will need to work with these medicines and uh rick there's so many questions we're going to ask some really quick ones and and some of them um yeah we'll just we'll have to do speedy questions now like speed dating okay what was that i said i'll see if i can answer yes or no yeah so anyway there's one here which i've already answered but ricky's coming to australia next year for the summit that we have on psychedelic therapies in melbourne in november which we've already sold nearly 300 tickets for so um so we're really looking forward to seeing you and um welcoming you to that so for those of you that ask americans in by then yeah sure hope so um there's a question here what will be the future challenges in preventing some of the negative directions that cannabis legislation have taken in the us from happening with psychedelics where are some of the most important areas to focus on to help this continue in a positive direction well um there are some fundamental differences so um you know marijuana is a medicine in and of itself when it's a medicine it's not accompanied with psychotherapy and it's also available for you know non-medical use yeah a lot of the the the main critique that people have about the way that um cannabis has been legalized is that a lot of the opportunities for dispensaries for production facilities are going to wealthier people and they're not going to the people that were really the ones that suffered the most under the drug war and also that we're seeing more and more the rise of um you know large conglomerates that can um you know produce massive amounts and they have lower cost and they're driving a lot of the people out of the business that's sort of were the underground growers that that really cared more about quality and stuff so i think we've got equity issues taxation issues um and those are problematic with psychedelics it's going to be different at least for mdma for psilocybin for lsd a lot of these drugs they're going to come from pharma i mean we're spending 5.6 million dollars on developing medical grade mdma you know nobody's going to be able to do that in their backyard or they're not going to be able to grow their own plants and it's only admit the therapeutic use of psychedelics is only administered by therapists under direct supervision it's not a take-home drug so i'd say that the biggest concern that we have is um and the biggest one of the biggest critiques of the way cannabis was legalized is the uh equity issues and so we are actively trying to train therapists of color to train indigenous uh native americans to do therapy with others we've got a lot of equity issues that we're trying to address and then i think the legalization it should be legal without therapy as i said but it should be covered by insurance if you want to go that route um and i think that um oh i think a lot of the um election results recently you know were drug policy reform won so we're gonna have more and more latitude i think to do well-designed smart um policies that um i think will avoid some of the problems before from the way marijuana was legalized but by and large i think that the marijuana legalization has been way better still than criminalization yeah thank you for that oh there's so many questions here i'm just trying to america make them all into one um so look just very briefly there's people asking questions on the use of these medicines for anorexia and for end of life um obviously you're hugely supportive of of these you know of these trials and what's happening there do you have any other comments you want to make quickly on yeah yeah so we have an owner from canada um sanjay singhal who donated a million dollars for us to do mdma for eating disorders so we're about to start that study very exciting i think that there's um so many potential uses of it um that um yeah we just need to explore so many different potential happen yeah yeah and the same i get i mean end of life there's a question here yaki yokai glick yes there's incredible yokai who's asked the question about the psilocybin alleviating the pathway pathway terminal cancer patients please go and have a look at the new york university study and next year we hope to have one of the the leading ladies who did that research um do a webinar for us and um so i'll say also that we're sending out the maps um monthly newsletter we just published a paper about the study with uh people with life-threatening illnesses with anxiety and connection with mdma and what we're looking forward to just the other day too i was talking to somebody i've worked with mdma with people a few days before they died when they were on massive number of opiates all sorts of other drugs were in a lot of pain what's amazing is that mdma and opiates combined are synergistic and you get better pain control than opiates alone and the opiates make you um sleepy and they're they're you know they tranquilize you the stimulant property of mdma mixed with the opiates wakes you up and you get better pain control and you're open-hearted so that you can deal and sort of say goodbye to your loved ones so i've seen sort of miraculous experiences with people several days before they died with mdma and that could also be for suicide so i think when we talk about end of life a lot of times it's people that have been diagnosed with cancer and they're they're working through the treatments but i think the other thing is going to be in the hospice center where people are really that close to dying that's going to be another really important and there's all sorts of drug drug interactions that people worry about but i think you we've not found in practice that there's a lot of problems with these drug drug interactions even when people are taking a lot ladder so i think that yeah end of life is just going to be one of the most important things but then back the other way which is going to be at the beginning of life or when you're like 12 years old 13 rights of passage for teenagers i think is also going to be a dictator that's really very interesting and um we'll definitely send you that one there's um a question here um have you heard of there being specific studies into the connection to spirituality and psychedelics how important is the mystical experience in healing and why does it happen okay well why does that so why does it happen um you know your ego dissolves you're you're not looking at things in the normal way you're taking in more information um aldous huxley talked about um the brain as a reducing valve there's so much information and you could talk about maslow and the hierarchy of needs that we know about in humanistic and transpersonal psychology our ego sort of is scanning the universe scanning the world for our ego needs and when that gets dissolved you let in more information you feel this connection so that why the mystical experience happens is um i think because of this you could go back into the whole idea of the default mode network so that's neuroscience as an explanation but it doesn't necessarily make therapy better but what um what would i well let me say this i think that in the 50s 60s with lsd and psilocybin there was a correlation between the depth of the mystical experience and therapeutic outcomes in the modern research over the last 20 years with lsd psilocybin even other drugs ayahuasca there's a relationship between the depth of the mystical experience and therapeutic outcomes i feel that part of it is because you get a sense of connection so that the kind of isolation loneliness is is diminished the spiritual experience is about i belong you know there's a loving force in the universe it can be very profoundly restorative however we have used the same mystical experience questionnaire that's used in all these research projects that was developed initially in 1962 for the good friday experiment it was done by timothy leary and walter panke but we've you know but that's the sa and we use that in our mdma research and so that there's a fundamental difference with mdma for ptsd in that there is no correlation between the mystical experience and therapeutic outcomes when it comes to mdma for ptsd there are other measures that we use called the post-traumatic growth inventory it's like i like that one that's a good yeah it's uh you can learn from trauma if you're not overwhelmed from trauma you can learn from trauma and you can re-evaluate why you what you're doing with your life using it most effectively so it's post-traumatic growth so there may be connections between a mystical experience and post-traumatic growth but getting over ptsd what we think is really necessary is to bring up the memories of the trauma and to process them and and then also the part about ptsd is that it seems like the traumas are always happening they're never really in the past they're starting to foreground never become part of the background so that you need to have your memory uh and your ego intact to think about those things that happen to you and then process them and that's what helps you get better from ptsd so that that's at least what our theoretical understanding is that why there's no correlation between the mystical experience and therapeutic outcomes in mdma for ptsd but if you were to do psilocybin for ptsd let's say there might be a correlation between the mystical experience of therapy but not with mdma and just a question here and this is often there's often like confusions about the definition of ptsd itself there's a question here when you speak of ptsd is this uses a catch-all that includes efficacy for complex trauma or developmental trauma for that matter too well um you know our job is simple um doing flight development in a sense in that what we have to do is there's one measure called the caps the clinician administered ptsd scale and all over the world that's the gold standard for evaluating ptsd symptoms and that's the measure that all of the regulatory agencies use to approve the drug the caps so what what our um job is to do i said it's simple is we just have to get that whatever whatever this measure says is ptsd that's it okay all right so but that measure does include complex ptsd and we have lots of people with complex ptsd with developmental issues um one thing that you know that we've found is that mdma can be extremely helpful for people that have had childhood trauma so bessel vanderkok who's a ptsd expert he wrote the book the body keeps the score he's the principal investigator of our boston site he was shocked to see our phase 3 results because he had this idea that complex ptsd particularly with people with attachment problems that they're very very difficult to treat and they are but what we find with mdma that um we do even better sometimes with complex ptsd and people with attachment disorders because they're so hungry for the attachment that mdma can with the the stimulation of oxytocin and the the connection the bond so i think that there's just been um you know and the the thing that we learned in phase two i'll say is that which was really important um is that our approach for mdma assisted psychotherapy works regardless of the cause of ptsd so the ssris work better in women than in men and they failed in combat related ptsd so we can bring in people with ptsd from any cause there's also prolonged grief is a form of ptsd so there's so many different kinds of ptsd and so we we can work with people uh high on the dissociative subtype as well they can even get better yeah and now there's going to be a project looking at um people with borderline personality uh with mdma to see if they can be helped and and we think that it can be they might need more sessions more problematic attachment maybe you need more sessions but um yeah we definitely work with complex ptsd with any kind are you saying that you're starting to do some work with bpd well this is these uh investigator-initiated trials and so someone has approached us about that's what they want to do and we're now in the process of you know we'll provide the mdma we'll we'll help them with their regulatory process and so yeah that study has not started but we're thinking of that for sure okay when you i think you and i might have spoken about this but we have an organization in australia whose leads in bpg who are also interested so maybe we could connect the dots here a bit in a multi site so yeah yeah we're sure please keep that in mind um look just there's so many questions but um one question here do heroic doses have a lasting effect in decreasing activity in the default mode network um i think it depends on the integration i mean you can take heroic doses and end up worse off and not be you know more spiritual or not be you know you could end up worse off so it's not an automatic thing higher doses reduction of activity in the default mode network um i think the answer is that uh well first off i don't know that's probably the answer but but the other one is that i think what we're trying to do is to make it so people can um have cognitive flexibility yeah so i think if you have this cognitive flexibility you can um be even more focused on what you need to do so that you could say that your default mode network could be even more efficient because you don't have all these distractions these past anxieties that you're thinking about and when necessary you can be more um diffuse and more you know more more mystical you could say so i don't know that that there would be a um like a long-term reduction in default mode neck activity i think that it would probably depend on what the person wants to do let's say they're meditating maybe they're meditating they can do better maybe then they they work or something and they're really focused and their their d fomo network is not diminished at all so but but i guess the other thing i'll just say is that um because we have limited resources we've had to be highly strategic and because the tga the fda the ema they don't care about mechanism of action they care about safety and efficacy so to get drugs approved you don't have to know mechanism of action so that's why we've left that to others and that's why we're doing plenty um look there's loads more questions but we'll just finish off with a couple of slides before i say thank you to you to rick so elan if you could quickly just pop on the final slides because we're getting questions about how people can register for this and that um so we'll just pop those slides on now thank you um so the next slide yeah so this is our psychological support services and we really encourage you if you want some support either individual or group counselling group integration we have wonderful therapists who are leading this and led by our practice manager dr alana roy who's superb and we have therapists all over australia who can work with you next slide thank you so it's a wonderful quote of tim ferriss who says you know he'd use the next five years as a golden window to affect millions of lives so your small or larger donation will make a difference and we really really reach out to you all to help us peter and i are donating our time and our money but we can't do this alone just like rick said none of us can do this alone it's a team effort it's a it's a global movement and if we want to get people well and we want to get this planet a lot better than it is right now and less divided then we all need to work together for this mission and we we really welcome your support next slide thank you so these are the ways you can help and rick's talked about some of these but start conversation share this information i think we should and share your stories your stories of healing very important volunteer read our content join our chapters talk to your doctors doctor by doctor your local mps um you know do your own fundraising events and name mind medicine as charity of choice attend our events our summit next year next slide thank you so this is the certificate in psychedelic assisted therapies and we know there's lots of therapists on this call and so we encourage you to um register if you're interested in this training it will be a world-class course next course our next slide thank you this is who's coming to the summit and we're adding to this but it's an amazing lineup of people and we hope that rick actually that you'll spend at least like the whole of november in australia so we can introduce you to lots of government officials and others who you can you know really inspire and brief on these medicines i must say you know this has been a long webinar but most people have stayed on it the whole time and that's just a mark of how inspirational you are and your knowledge and experience is just so vast next slide thank you so the rescheduling fingers and toes are all crossed for everyone that on the 3rd of february we get a positive interim decision with the tga and rick if you can put in a little whisper to your mates at the tga that could all help thank you and the next slide thank you so wonderful stan groff will be with us on next thursday him and bridget his wife and the filmmaker susan hess will be with us with this wonderful screening of the way of the psychonaut a superb documentary and we encourage you all to register if you haven't already we've had an amazing response to this event it is a fundraiser for mind medicine australia but the tickets are are very inexpensive inexpensive and affordable so please join us and the next slide so these are the remaining um oh well we've got some of our um 20 so we're building an amazing webinar for 2021 series as well rick we'd love to have you on to give an update maybe around mid-year again but um some wonderful webinars coming up including the one with robin carhart harris in 24th of march which will be reporting on his incredible study comparing psilocybin um with ssris so that should be absolutely fascinating so we'll just open the screen up again thank you everyone rick your legacy in this field is extraordinary um i mean what's left to do what's the vision what's the next thing what do you want to leave the world with or what's what's what's the big hairy audacious goal apart from anything else just leave us with with one inspiration of about what you plan and what we could all do to to help this movement well um i guess the one thing i'll say is that we have to be careful not to celebrate too soon no you know and there's one of my uh a quote that i think is terrific it's called there's many a slip twix the cup and the lip quick meaning between there's many so you've got something you you spill it on yourself at the last second so i think um we are in danger of celebrating too soon and we've got a lot of hard work ahead of ourselves we've got a lot more work to make sure there's no backlash but the long-term goal on a more positive side is really to be um part of a more spiritualized um humanity that is healed of trauma so i think that the the direction that we need to be thinking about really is this medicine and drug policy reform and is this uh i would guess um another 30 years or so is what we're going to need to really 2035 we think we'll be able to well 2022 2023 we'll start with prescription use 2035 licensed legalization maybe by 2050 will have helped humanity become more sane so if we last that long [Laughter] well rick look honestly thank you again um everyone put your hands together and thank rick he's a legend and we're so lucky to have had you today thank you for your time your generosity your big heart it shines through and we're so grateful thank you it's been a pleasure to speak with you all and i i look forward to hoping to be there in person thank you we certainly hope so and we'll look after you very well down under okay thank you okay bye for now bye everyone see you on the next event take care

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: xBAMAJetNI8 (https://youtu.be/xBAMAJetNI8) ===

We have a panel here of some of the participants of the MDMA trials. It's going to be moderated by Emily Williams. Emily Williams, MD, is a psychiatry resident at US UCSF where she is currently conducting an analysis of the effects of MDMA on the therapeutic alliance as well as serving as a co-PI on an MDMA assisted psychotherapy for PTSD phase 3 clinical trial site. She also works as the independent clinical writer for the MAPS funded study on MDMMA for end of life anxiety in Marin California. In addition to her clinical re and research work, she is has a passion for harm reduction as and serves as a supervisor for the Zeno project which provides psychedelic harm reduction for for events and festivals. Please welcome this amazing team, this amazing panel. [Applause] Thank you all so much for joining me for this panel of MDMA study participants. I feel so honored to be sharing the stage with them as they share their stories of being uh study volunteers. Um for the format of this panel, um we're going to have each participant share about their experience as study volunteers. Um and then we'll reserve 15 minutes at the end for a question and answer uh with the audience. Um, so we'll begin with Andy Gold. So Andy Gold is a lawyer in Oakland, California. He was diagnosed with stage three colon cancer in 2004. At the recommendation of a psychiatrist, he ended up as a subject in a MAP sponsored study of MDMA assisted psychotherapy for people suffering with anxiety from life-threatening illness. His article, When the Walls Come Tumbling Down, my first MDMA assisted psychotherapy session, appeared in the winter 2016 maps bulletin. Hello. Give me give me a minute to get was used to this mic. Um, first, when I get nervous, which I'm likely to do in hearing my voice echoing back at me in a crowd like this, uh, one of two things is likely to happen. Either I'll talk really fast, um, or I'll start making really bad jokes. Um, so please, uh, signal your displeasure if you need to. um what I'm going to do because we didn't really have specific direction on how to handle this. So, what I'm I'm going to do is sort of talk about um the experience that I went through that led me to be a participant in this trial. And depending how much time I have, maybe some of the trial impact itself. Um when I turned 50, uh right on time, uh I started getting severe sort of gastrointestinal discomfort and um it was time for my baseline colonoscopy. So, um, you know, like a good person, I went did my baseline colonoscopy and, uh, coming out of the woo woo zone, if you've had your colonoscopies, uh, I I awoke to find the gastronenterologist holding my hands with my wife in the room saying, "We saw something. Uh, it's a tumor. We don't know what it is." So, um, after that, uh, you know, they immediately sent me, uh, sorry. Then they they did a uh the biopsy uh determined it was malignant um and that I would be immediately going into surgery. So instead of a long planned family vacation to Vietnam, I did a short planned um surgical residency at UCSF hospital. Um the surgery uh you know went fine. Um uh and one other thing which is that that there's something um when you when you get a phone call from a doctor because it came by phone call when they got the path report that says you have cancer. Um that is one of those moments in your life that you don't forget. Um you know there's a handful of those that occur throughout your life and you have cancer is certainly one of them. Um, so in a way I was in a strange way, um, when they told me I had cancer, I was almost relieved because I'd been having a lot of physical discomfort without knowing what it was. Now at least I got to name it and, um, focus on it. Um, and I had a strange attitude, which was, uh, pardon my language. Um, there's an alien inside me. Get that [ __ ] out of me. Um, so I went through surgery. Um, and uh, you know, you go through the whole I'm sure I'm not the only person who's ever gone through surgery, but you go through surgery and you know, you are turned from being a human being into a slab of meat. Um, and uh, you know, you have these weird experiences of being sort of dumped from a gurnie onto a bed and being half conscious and doing morphine and you know, all that sort of good stuff. Um my posttop pathology uh when I went in I didn't know how bad the cancer was going to be um whether I was going to require what kind of afterare I was going to require uh the postop pathology came back uh with positive and lymph node which meant that I was stage three and would need uh chemotherapy so I went through six months of chemotherapy um and simultaneously an interesting thing happened which is I'm a lawyer and um literally while I was unconscious on on the surgical table. Um what turned out to be the biggest uh case of my life uh landed on my desk. Um I wasn't at my desk, one of my partners was and he called my wife and said, you know, Andy just got a new case. So um over the next, you know, period of time while I was dealing with the cancer, I was simultaneously managing what became the largest case of my career at a time when I couldn't tell people what I was going through because I don't know if there are any lawyers in here. Lawyers are sharks, by the way, in case you hadn't heard. Um, and you know, I was concerned that if I told opposing if opposing council learned that I had cancer, um, they would smell blood in the water. If my client learned that I had cancer, I was concerned that they would pull the case. I would have to do things like show up in court um, with my chemotherapy pack and get a note from my doctor so that I could go in without setting off all the alarms. Um, so I go through six months of chemotherapy and um, in the in the lexicon of the medical world, I tolerated it well. Um, if you haven't had chemotherapy, I don't really recommend it. Um, it's not a pleasurable drug. Um, but one thing that my oncologist said that I've never forgotten is that he said that, um, when you go through chemo, even if you do well, that his analogy was it's like being in a boxing match. That at the end of a boxing match, even the winner is kind of beat up. So, even if you tolerate chemotherapy well, the chances are good that by the time you're done, you're kind of a mess. And I was, um, you know, fatigued, burnout, um, neuropathy, uh, you know, loss of appetite. Thankfully, I kept my hair. Not that I cared that much about my hair, but at least I didn't show to the outside world that I was having that I was going through chemotherapy, which was sort of good in my circumstances. Um but at my at my first uh post chemo CT scan um where everybody just expected I was fine and I would now be sort of you know returned to the normal population. Um they saw smudges that they determined were apparent metastases. Um and uh so they sent me on a course of further um abuse. Um, the next thing I had was a PET scan, which is an awful procedure where they the guy walks into the room with, you know, with like lead gloves on and a thing with skull and crossbones to put in you. Um, so it's just a horrible thing. Um but what was going on in psych for me psychologically at that point is that having tolerated six months of chemotherapy believing that I was cancer-free, I was now led to believe that um I wasn't cancerree and that in fact I might have metastasized and that at this point I might be dying and that the next step was going to be um exploratory surgery followed by experimental treatment because the standard protocol hadn't worked. So this is the point at which I thought I was dying. This is the point at which I think the true trauma of my cancer experience really hit its apogee, height, bottom, whichever one you want to take. It was extreme. Um, at a certain point, you know, I got through that. They determined it wasn't metastic cancer. Um, you know, another story. Uh, two years later, um, I had never rested. that I had gone straight from chemotherapy and post- chemo and working my brains out, you know, without ever taking a rest, without really having an opportunity to kind of, you know, process my experience. Um, one day kind of miraculously, the case I was working on and supervising 25 lawyers and parillegals settled. Um, if you care, my client got everything it wanted. It was a happy day for everybody. But what it meant is that the artificial support system that had kind of carried me for the two years suddenly disappeared and everything that was holding me up was pulled out and it was the proverbial you know pulling the tablecloth out or the uh the trap door opening or I like to say you know the um the widely coyote you know where the is chasing um you know the roadrunner and the roadrunner runs off the cliff and keeps going and widely coyote runs off the cliff and realizes he's run off a cliff and looks back at the camera then looks down and plummets into canyon and that's kind of where I went. Um, you know, my my timer is going off. So, over the next period of time, I um I struggled. That's, you know, sort of the easiest way to put it. Um, the words I prefer other than depression, which sounds too clinical to me, uh, malaise, despair, latitude, um, the gray cloud, and I just kind of drifted for a long time, um, in a way that was, you know, uncomfortable and, uh, not comfortable to the people around me. And I kept up a good face some of the time, but a lot of the time was not able to. Um, and ultimately, uh, a psychiatrist that I was sort of directed to go see by my wife, who was tired of dealing with me, uh, understandably, and the psychiatrist is here, if he's still here, um, suggested that I go visit, uh, uh, Phil Wolfson, um, and Julian Andrews, who are also here, who were leading, uh, a study in MD MDMA assisted psychotherapy for people suffering anxiety from, uh, life-threatening illness. So, I think my time is up. It's my time up. I'll pass it on. Thank you. Thank you, Andy. So, next I'd like to introduce uh Christina Engeneo. Christina has worked in a hospice uh as a hospice social worker since 1987, accompanying uh patients with life-threatening illnesses and their loved ones through the process of dying, death, and grief. She has a psychotherapy practice in Pedaluma and does restorative justice work through the inside prison project at San Quinton. In November 2015, she was diagnosed with breast cancer. For the first time in her life, she became a patient and developed an anxiety disorder as a result of coping with her diagnosis. Her participation as a subject in the MDMA assisted psychotherapy for anxiety and life-threatening illness study has been transformative and soulsaving for her. It's possible I am pushing through solid rock in flint like layers as the ore lies alone. I am so far in I see no way through and no space. Everything is close to my face and everything close to my face is stone. I don't have much knowledge yet in grief. So this massive darkness makes me small. You be the master. Make yourself fierce. Break in. Then your great transforming will happen to me and my great grief cry will happen to you. Reiner Maria Rilka. I begin my story at the beginning. I'm an oops baby, the last born into a first generation workingclass family in Queens, New York City. The only one it seems thrilled with my arrival is my adoring father. I'm not the apple of his eye. I'm his orchard. I'm an inquisitive, rebellious, and sensitive child. I live life at full volume. This doesn't bode well for me amidst the constant volley of biting sarcasm in my family. I learn early and often how to make my skin thick, keep my heart safe. When I'm 11 years old, my beloved father suddenly dies. Fast forward, I'm a psychotherapist. I do hospice work for 30 years now. I facilitate a restorative justice group with men incarcerated for life at San Quentin. I write and perform memoir. I sing in a chorus. I travel the world. I've been heard to say over and over, I love my life. I'm healthy. I've always been very healthy. I'm a competent, caring, helping professional, not a patient. All that changes on November 30th, 2015, when I am diagnosed with breast cancer. The day before a diagnosis, the practically perfect partner I had finally found suddenly leaves. My all wellp put together self, confident, strong, adventurous, disintegrates into despair. I am flattened, lost to myself, to the to the world. I can't work. Don't know if I can ever return to hospice work. I plunge into a can't stop crying, can't get out of bed for the first time in my life well of depression. Where's that life that I loved? It's gone. This is my life now. I am in a state of total resignation. Slowly, I begin to step out, do things. Against every hard wire in my body, I learn how to ask for help and receive it. I become a patient. I have extraordinary medical providers, steadfast friends. I receive massage, acupuncture, energy work, physical therapy, home delivered organic meals. I go on a fly fishing retreat for women with breast cancer. Take African dance, yoga, nutrition classes. Most everyone thinks all this activity means I'm fine. It doesn't. I am so far from fine. The depression stays. Then the anxiety arrives. Comes all too often in the quiet hours. What's that spot on my face? This pain in my chest? That ache in my arm. Did they get it all? Is it back? Has it spread? It lands me in the ER one afternoon with tacic cardia and chest pains. What I come to learn in the study is a panic attack. Me? I don't know who I am anymore. I meet a woman who's been a subject in the MDMA PTSD study. After 25 years of talk therapy with no relief, now she says she's cured. I am astonished but skeptical. I have explored altered states from psychedelic party drugs to sacred medicine ceremonies for 40 years, but I never imagined they'd be my salvation out of this darkness. I make a call to Libby, the studies coordinator. I drive up a long, narrow, winding road, up, up, up, through the emerald forested, mansionstudded hills of Marin. Stunning views of Mount Tam the whole way. I arrive at a home filled with art, altars, and orchids. Carrying my curiosity and skepticism in equal measure, I take my place in the seat of honor. There are measurements to complete, protocols to follow, urine to test. No matter these details, I can already tell I am in rarified air. I proceed to have the most comprehensive psychological assessment of my life. The only diagnosis I've ever had is an adjustment disorder with mixed emotional features. I'm proud of this. Now, anxiety, PTSD, depression, me. Yes, me. I know I'm in trauma. My body knows it every single day. I can't reset myself. I believe that I'll never be able to reset myself again. The exuberant woman I've always known myself to be is dead inside. Seems gone forever. All that changes with this study, these therapists, this medicine in the most intensive psychotherap in the most intensive therapeutic modality of my therapy intensive life. I am so well taken care of, so deeply seen and held by Julain and Evan. I effortlessly access the vastness of the vastness. Soar through galaxies of galaxies. Swim in rivers of compassion. Become the rivers, the otter, the stones, the river banks. I taste yellow. I smell blue. I watch as the holographic universe takes its shape in the form of the ancient oak right outside the window. I am the blood coursing through my veins. I am the veins. I am the eyes, the bones, the breath. I am rose, root, sky, giraffe, oil, sllicked gull, Donald Trump. I am the 10-year-old refugee girl in the boat. I am the foot of the man who kicks the girl into the sea. I am the sea where the girl drowns. I am the raped. I am the rapist in a place beyond words and concepts where the oneness of everything simply is. I rest beyond my body, beyond my way beyond I. I'm back home again in this life, this body with its surgical scars still lingering effects of 33 rounds of radiation. The depression is gone. The anxiety returned once. We had a conversation and then it left. Yes, I'm back. I'm working again at hospice and I'm way over time. I'm writing and performing. I'm singing and traveling. I'm feeling not only the bold over sorrow of life, but it's pure exquisite beauty. I am saying again, I love my life. The medicine's lessons are forever tattooed on the cells of my body. A few words from William Stafford. Now, there's a thread that you follow. Pull that thread. It goes among things that change, but it doesn't change. People wonder about what you're pursuing. You have to explain about the thread, but it's hard for others to see. While you hold it, you can't get lost. Tragedies happen. People get hurt or die. You suffer and get old. Nothing you do can stop times unfolding. You don't ever let go of the thread. But but you see, I did let go. I didn't mean to. I couldn't help it. I got lost. I let go. But here's the thing. And here's what the medicine gave me. The thread. Never let go of me. to Gilain, Evan, and Phil for being fierce, for breaking in. With all my heart, I bow to you in gratitude. Thank you so much, Christina. So beautiful. [Music] [Applause] Next we have Rachel Hope. Rachel was a subject in the phase 1 clinical trial of MDMA assisted psychotherapy for treatment resistant PTSD. At the end of her treatment, she no longer met criteria for PTSD and has become a public advocate for the legalization of this life sa saving therapy. Uh I'm going to be uh shorter briefer because I am incredibly appreciative of both of you and sharing so vulnerably and so real and putting so much humanity into this science of it. Um that's what since my um treatment in 2005 where I received two sessions of um uh oh louder okay yeah um I was so profoundly transformed by just those two sessions in 2005 that um I thought I was luckiest person ever. I had treatment resistant post-traumatic stress disorder complex um from an extremely abusive childhood and also um I got hit by a truck when I was a kid also. So, I did ongoing lots and lots of extreme hospitalizations and and surgeries and I just I relate so much to the helplessness of of um feeling so completely vulnerable and helpless and alone in a in a world that seems so disconnected. And I think one of the greatest gifts that I received um I mean I did like everything imaginable similar to you to get myself well every kind of the best psychotherapy and drugs and in-n-out patient and hypnotherapy and EMDR and and and and and I got much better understanding about why I was so sick but I just kept on getting sicker and in the treatment of course MDMA assisted psychotherapy is like oh a completely different reality totally I mean it makes psychotherapy effective and I experienced that but was also very surprising was um this I got reacquainted with my interconnectedness and that's where the real healing I believe lasted where I no longer was so completely alienated from everything and everyone in my uh secret suffering um so many of us that have post-traumatic stress disorder are really habitually masking our shame and fear by being so secretive and that is even reinforces this alienation. So in that in those therapy sessions um not only was I able to rewire my brain and um you know file memories as history and not relive them over and over again and many other things. But I also um got reacquainted with my interconnectedness with life with mankind. And I came out of there feeling much like a champion for the greater good. Um this gives me incredible hope for this therapy because if many many people get reacquainted with their humanity and their compassion then we could get a tipping point fast enough to really get our planet back on track. I had my third and final session in 2012. So altogether I only had three MDMA assisted psychotherapy sessions and in 2012 I no longer qualified as PTSD diagnosis. So it cured me and that's a big deal because other than MDMA assisted psychotherapy there's no other way I believe you can get cured. I mean it might be the only thing. So I run around doing a lots of getting interviewed by lots of media people since then. Um sometimes a little strange because uh it's being going from such a secretive shamed um person never wanting anyone to ever know about my history to a person like that openly internationally discusses being a survivor of child rape. I mean whoa. And that's not because I think it's fun, but I do think that um the legalization of this treatment is essential. I mean, PTSD is masquerading as apathy and drug addiction and all kinds of illnesses and but mostly I think the um the helplessness of massive PTSD is what I see in our world today. And when I personally felt that part of me that healed, I I also feel really excited because what's possible for mankind if we have um something that can really make us well again. Um and the the stigma and the shame that comes from not wanting to talk about um the the wounds that keep us, you know, kind of in this cage of secrecy. Well, it's really hard to do if you don't know there's hope. There's not there, you know, that there's there's no solution. So, just like digging it all out and therapy is kind of awful. Um, but I want everybody to know that there is hope and that to start to delve into these these memories and unravel the grip that they have on our humanity. Um uh I think I'll end with that and um thank you for this panel. It's really a pleasure to meet you guys. Thank you Rachel. So finally we have Nigel McCory. Uh he's a veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom where he served in a Marine Corps infantry battalion. He suffered from PTSD for eight years before enrolling in the phase 2 MDMA assisted psychotherapy for PTSD clinical trial in 2012. The treatments were so effective for Nigel that he has become a strong advocate for connecting the multitudes of veterans suffering from PTSD with this life-saving treatment. Nigel holds a mers in chemistry from Ferman University and is also being featured in Emanuel Sparos's upcoming motion picture MDMA the movie. Thank you everybody. It's really great to be here and have this opportunity to share my story. I was a Marine in the early part of Iraq war. My unit served in the Sunni Triangle area that was in between Fallujah, Baghdad and the Alamadia area. So that was a really active combat zone during that time and we engaged with enemy combatants on a nearly daily basis. Um we were shot at with everything from small arms including handguns and rifles to having rockets and bombs you know thrown at us and exploded on us. Uh, so we took a beating and I started noticing changes going on in my my mind, the way I was perceiving everything around the time I was about halfway through that tour of duty. And I thought it was a pretty natural response to a lot of the life-threatening situations I was in. And I didn't really think much beyond that at the time. I assumed that when I came home, these heightened reactions to certain situations and this inability to fall asleep at night would go away. And after returning home, instead of going away, they started getting worse over time. And uh I was discharged from the Marine Corps in 2005. I still had PT PTSD that was undiagnosed. and I began school. As I made my way through school, I I kept noticing a lot of additional issues starting to develop beyond inability to sleep and you know kind of this strong alertness, strong reactions. I started noticing myself isolating from f friends and family. Uh basically because I didn't want to have to share the experiences that I'd been through. I thought if I shared those with everybody, uh, they would suffer in a lot of the same ways that I was, you know, psychologically and emotionally, just knowing how rough and cruel the world can be. Uh, so I kept a lot of these things to myself and it really just got worse and worse over the course of the next several years. Um, in 2011, I had really reached a low point in my life. I was completely hopeless in terms of where the future was going to take me. I didn't feel like I had a future waiting. Um, I eventually made my way to the VA hospital where I was diagnosed with severe PTSD due to combat and I was offered the traditional modalities of healing that the VA is known to offer, which are drugs and talk therapy. They uh put me on a large cocktail of anti-depressants, anti-anxiety, sleep medications. And these ultimately gave me a chemical labbotomy where I just felt like a zombie. And I felt like, you know, this was never going to help anything that was going on. It was going to more interfere with my ability to function, which would probably make me more depressed than I had already become. Fortunately, around this time, my sister told me she had been watching a National Geographic uh Drugs, Inc. on the drug ecstasy. And it was a pretty damning indictment of this drug, but they had a small little blurb in the middle where uh they had mentioned one story of somebody using MDMA therapeutically and then they had a short mention that there were currently trials for veterans and that was the perfect time to come across that information. I was looking for an alternative and perhaps even radical way to treat this condition because at that point I really didn't think there was anything that would allow me to get over it. Because of where I was living at the time, I was uh considered local to the study and this enabled me to go directly into it. So within months I was uh already receiving treatments which was truly amazing. After the very first treatment using 75 milligrams of MDMA assisted psychotherapy the sleep problems that I had had for uh eight or eight years maybe nine years at that point went away after the very first session. I went to sleep at around 9:00 that night fell asleep like a baby. And then every night since then, I've effortlessly been able to fall asleep. It took me months to be convinced that this was actually a real permanent change that had taken place. I went on to have four more sessions uh with Michael and Annie Myth over the course of the next um four months. And at the end of that, I had felt a great transformation. And I had felt a great amount of weight lifted from me. And a little while later, after realizing how greatly impacting this had really been and that I was now beginning to see hope in the future, my health was improving. My social habits were improving. I started referring friends that needed this treatment to the study. I was able to direct two friends who also went through the treatment and it improved both of their symptoms that they were dealing with. Uh, additionally, another one of my friends who I felt really needed this treatment was not able to get into this MAPS treatment. So, I uh sought out underground therapy for him. And even in a underground context using the same treatment system, this was hugely effective for him. and he's now held a full-time job for over a year for the first time since being out in 2006. I feel that this medicine is of the utmost importance. On average, around 24 veterans a day are committing suicide. This is an epidemic in our country. These are some of the best and brightest men and women that our country has had to offer and they've selflessly given themselves to these efforts and uh when they come back they deserve a chance to heal and to reintegrate into normal more normal life. They shouldn't have to live like outsiders. This is the only treatment I can think of that really offers that. And it's really my passion to be able to tell my story. You know, not because I enjoy it. I never thought I would be laying my most vulnerable parts of myself out for the world, but I've really realized by doing this, by sharing my story, I have a chance to put out there how real this really is. And I would like to urge veterans to contact the VA hospital because I think if 10,000 veterans contacted the VA hospital demanding MDMA therapy because they know it works, they've read the papers, they've seen the data, I think the VA would have to respond to that. That's all I've got though. Thank you. [Applause] So, I think we have some time for questions and answers. Um, if you want to step to the mic over here, line up and we can begin. We will be going a little bit over since we started a bit late, too. So, we don't have any time for questions. Um, hey, thank you guys so much for sharing. Um, I cried through about half of that. Um, my question is for Rachel, and I was really wondering, um, after you went through, um, your therapy if you were able to maintain normal kind of relationships, knowing your background. Um, so I have a similar story, but I'm just wondering how the um that therapy helped your therapy helped you to reconnect with others and maybe um not even necessarily your family, but maybe building your own network of people who love you and support you. Totally. Um I was not able before my treatment to maintain normal um close intimate emotionally vulnerable relationships because I had no real positive relation with myself and that was clearly reflected. So once I did got my treatment I was able to make friends with my vulnerability rather than hide it and consider it you know like walking around with a target and someone's going to get you. So, you know, that living like differently with my own vulnerability and living with a being present with myself, I was able to do that with other people, of course. And then that feedback loop, I continued to get healthier because I did, like you said, build a system of loving bonds and relationships I had never had before. I was a very late bloomer. Very late bloomer. going for altitude here. Okay. Yeah. I was just curious with Rachel and Nishel. Um do you feel like you're 100% now? I remember uh an interview with Rachel that you felt like you're at 90% but this was quite a while ago. And if not, do you plan on maybe pursuing more type of work in this area? Yeah, I'd like to answer that. And um after my first two sessions, I had 90% recovery, but I still had that 10%. So, I still qualified for having post-traumatic stress disorder. But I was really grateful, relatively speaking. That was awesome. And I wasn't messing with it. But then I got to have my third and final session in 2012. And I was no after that I no longer qualified for PTSD. Now, I'm always going to have PTS. I mean, I'm this is going to erase the reality of of how this has affected my personality, my identity, and my history, my you know, that's not going to change. But I don't have a disorder anymore. I don't have like a and what I mean by that is I don't have something that has a life of its own. It hijacks my life and forces me to relive the most horrible traumas over and over and over again. That doesn't happen anymore. I can navigate. So that's a very powerful statement and I hope you go tell everybody you know that the hardest case crazy woman was cured of PTSD with three eight hour sessions. Yeah. Uh for me um similarly to how the Iraq war and going to combat was a turning point in my life where I had this really strong experience that impacted me and then from that point the quality of my life began going down over time and just you know it was just this constant decrease until I hit my bottom and I had to address it. The MDMA assisted therapy was similarly this very strong experience that really affected my life but instead this time the quality of my life began gradually going up and up over time. I had mentioned my sleep issues went away after the first session. A lot of the other issues uh have been taking longer to um unravel. A lot of the um social fears that I had and things like that. you know, there was uh you know, about 12 24 months of really putting effort and work into pushing myself outside of my comfort zone and things like this, things that I knew I had to do. But, you know, it it it's been a process of unfolding. So, I would say that I'm not disabled by PTSD anymore. Absolutely. Um I think, you know, I'm on the road to never being affected by these things in a negative way. I mean really this is this whole experience has taught me to take these traumatic incidents and use them as lessons of you know growth and wisdom. Thank you all so much for sharing. Um I'm curious if there are ways that you and your worldview um this is for any panelists that want to answer. if there's if there's ways that you and your worldview have changed um post treatment compared to even before your traumatic experience. Thank you. Totally. I mean, well, I mean, I'm supposed I I have to put this into context. I mean, I was a total te totler, not a drug anti-drug person. you know, the pharmaceutical drugs that I was given that I probably needed to just survive, I demonized and I, you know, I didn't. And that's typical of a person with PTSD. Like we, we were, you know, overwhelmingly helpless and traumatized with that kind of depth. So anything that's going to mess with me or change way I think I was you know very against that and demonized a lot of other people who sought that in that mastery over state change by using lots of different things including medicine. So um but yeah, my worldview has changed radically on almost every subject. But since we're at this conference, I'd say um my level of compassion and acceptance for people who are basically left with nothing else they can do but then the self-medicate to try and get through today where I was one of the people persecuting those people and I'm you know I'm definitely converted still skeptical but um as a massive worldview on on how people are using and why people are using I'm a I'm a much more compassionate person and um what I want for people instead of like just don't do it. I what I want is that people can have a real therapeutic treatment that will heal them so they don't feel they have to resort to black market drugs and all the risks of that and getting addicted and doing it in shame and secretism and I want liberty for those people whereas I used to be really judgmental and as far as my worldview shifts uh I used to stay up all night looking out the window just convinced you know that there were going to be people coming after me. I'd just be checking out the window every couple of minutes over and over and over again neurotically and I'd never even think about somebody coming to get me. I'd never look out the window. Yeah, that's a huge change in world view. Christina or Andy, would you like to share? I'll say a few things about that. Um, one is it feels like the medicine brought me back to me. It wasn't a change in my worldview. It was a returning to who I had known myself to be and who I lost in this process. The other experience I had when I was in one of my journeys, my last one, when I was just moving in and out of all these animals and plants and people and the my capacity to do that was it was very easy with the medicine and I was just flitting around into every possible animate and inanimate objects and it gave me an incredible sense of compassion for all for all and now it feels feels like it's a practice that definitely takes more practice without the medicine, but it is something that I can incorporate into my life when I'm on the grocery line and I'm in a hurry or when I'm at the DMV or when somebody is doing something that I don't like. Uh happens occasionally. So, I can breathe into that moment and put myself into them. And uh it's a really wonderful practice. It's a little tangential, but close enough I think. Um, one of the ways that I my part of my experience in my opinion, I didn't even get to, you know, when I what the drug did for me. Um, but I to me it's a it's a tool. It's not a cure. And I think that's sort of an important distinction that, you know, antibiotics are cures. You have an infection, you take seven days of antibiotics, the infection goes away. MDMA is a tool that it's it's something that opens you up. It's something that provides you with a way to see yourself, with a way to see your place in the world, with a way to examine your own emotions, with a way to see how you respond to your environment. Um, and I think that that's something that it has given me that is a lasting effect. Um, it's not every day, it's not every moment. Um, but there's and it it's an enabler. uh the the term that people use is an impathogen, but to me that's sort of the way that it has changed. Maybe not my worldview, but my encounters with the world. Thank you. [Applause] Well, Andy, I'm I'm glad you said all that because I wanted to hear a bit more from you. you've been such a wonderful advocate for the for maps, for the study, for this uh way of doing this work with life-threatening illness and trauma. So, I my question to you Andy is can you tell us a little more? You got a bit cut off. I'm deeply grateful to all of you for this wonderful experience which makes me uh weep a bit in gratitude. So, maybe Andy share a little more if you would. Thank you. Is that a question, Phil? I don't I don't think so. But um you know, I think one of the things that I I think I do want to talk about is um you know, we all I think at different times went through um different kinds of therapy. It's part of the experience that you go through when your world is disturbed. um the VA hospital and all of its modalities, all the different kinds of therapies that you went to, you've been a therapist and probably in your training you went through a lot of different things. And um you know, I tried on several occasions through talk therapy to try to unravel what was going on with me. And believe me, I do not mean in any way to demean talk therapy. It's a tremendous tool and it works for a lot of people in a lot of ways. Um but there's something that the MDMA therapy does and particularly the MDMA you know uh assisted psychotherapy does that I think is um totally different totally opening totally unique um you know understand that when you do this you take this very powerful drug you spend six seven hours in the company of uh two therapists um the the analogy that I like to use is that uh you know talk therapy it's like say you have you have a tumor I had a tumor say And uh I go to my surgeon and the surgeon says, "Let me cut two inches today. Um we've only got 50 minutes." Um and then come back next week. And so you come back next week and some of that has already begun to heal back over. So first we have to start by reoping the wound we opened last week. Then we'll get another two inches and 50 minutes are up. Thank you very much. I'll see you next week. And look, there are people that, you know, for whom talk therapy is their solution. I and I really I I want to be clear about that. And there's people like Woody Allen who can afford to pay for talk therapy morning, noon, and night for the rest of their lives. For most of us, you know, that's not necessarily an option. Um but but to me, it's it's like the difference between doing surgery that way and doing surgery the way I had surgery, which is they put you under, you know, they do the you know, they do the whole process at once and they sew you back up. To me, the the MDMA process, it's because it's intense, because it's long lasting, because it it it's not completely open-ended, but you have hours at a time to work with yourself, to work with a therapist. Um, it doesn't end at the end of the six or seven hours. I mean, it's a drug that has even when the um, you know, specific uh, effects of it wear off, it continues to really influence your feelings and your thoughts for days at a time. uh then when you repeat it four, six, eight weeks later, whatever you know the process was that over the course of the two months or whatever we did for for our three treatments, there's this incredibly you know intense uh enveloping opening up experience. So thank you Andy. Thank [Music] thank you all for being here and for sharing your experience. Um I have two questions. The first is for those who were receiving the treatment for PTSD during the 8-hour sessions, did you go back and revisit some of the traumatic memories and what was the experience like of doing that while on the medicine? And my second question is for any of you, one of the mechanisms we heard proposed of of what's effective about this treatment is that the MDMA increases the connectiveness and empathy between the patient and the therapist um and really strengthens that relationship. And so I was wondering if you could speak to um what it was, what your relationship with the therapist, how critical you felt that was to your healing. Well, the MDMA absolutely increases empathy. I think really the method is that it's increasing the activity in the prefrontal cortex and that's responsible for advanced human thoughts and empathy and things like this. So I think uh when you take this drug that's part of the effects that it has and that's what makes it such a great tool for therapy is that you really have that higher brain processing things really well while you're going back through these traumatic events uh versus processing everything from the fear center in the lower part that's active. So I I think the empathy is absolutely a huge part of all of this between the patient and the therapist. So much of the problem uh in my personal experience and experience of uh fellow veterans that have sought treatment is being able to connect with a therapist. Being able to put all your uh trust and your vulnerabilities to somebody that you know hasn't been through the same experiences you have in most situations. uh with MDMA as you probably know the characteristic is that your fear really drops your personal defenses really uh drop that empathy really increases and that's really I think what you have to have as a mindset to be able to connect with the therapist in a significant way like that regarding going back and reprocessing the traumatic events that was such a huge part of what the therapy was uh not just doing that but then also being able to really identify what these traumatic events were because in so many cases they're small little traumatic events that are really dwarfed in comparison to these bigger things that stand out but these small events can actually in you know my opinion play as significant a role in the whole uh disorder called PTSD is the bigger ones. So I think you know the medicine allows you to identify those and then also yes reprocess them with that higher thought process that uh more empathetic worldview. Um my relationship with my therapist right here is like completely essential. Um, Michael and Annie Mythofer are, you know, extremely good therapists to, but I got placebo the first round as randomly selected. And so they did that incredible, amazing, the best psychotherapy ever and created those trusting relationships. But I didn't change after. It was only with the assistance of the medicine and exactly what Nigel is saying. I was able to remember things that I had repressed and it was too terrified to show to myself let alone tell another human being. Um the nature of the things that had happened to me are pretty horrifying and I didn't want to ret I would I was still even in the therapy worried about Michael and Annie getting traumatized by hearing what I had to say and it was I had to work through and work through. So what you're saying about the re lowering anxiety levels but expanding awareness and getting even more access to the truth was what set me free seriously because I think that is kind of what happened to me. I was able to access more truth more information that would normally have retraumatized me without the assistance of the medicine re reducing my anxiety levels. um the things that I was able to access and talk about, I probably would I if I had had that medicine and it it made me look at all this stuff without the safety set setting sitters and um the context and my own intention. I'd probably be in a straight jacket in some, you know, hospital somewhere because that was how traumatic those memories were. And I had a lot of body sensations that also I was able to encounter and listen to and hear those body memories story and listen with empathy. Huge, right? I mean like whoa. Um so yeah, I think it could be retraumatizing for anyone to try and tell some of their memories. Um I don't know that it's even safe to do so without this kind of treatment. As a therapist, I tend to have ridiculously impossible standards for other therapists. That's not good news for anybody who wants to be my therapist. Um, and I fell in love. So, relationship is everything. Relationship is everything. and the container that was created long before I did the medicine. It happened in those all those charts you've been seeing in the other presentations about the the sessions that occur before the medicine is taking. There was a lot of work going on there to build that connection. I had I was a tough nut to crack I think when I first walked in that beautiful home. Um but it was not difficult for me to fall in love with these three people. I mean how can you not um develop a phenomenal deep if you don't develop a trusting um bottomlessly trusting uh open relationship with the people that you go through this experience with frankly you're not going to have the outcome that I think we all had. um you know, you're you're you are completely vulnerable. Um you don't you're not going to leave the room in 50 minutes. Um and in our case, I don't know, in each of the studies, you spend the night at the house. Um so there's this incredibly deep, incredibly, you know, loving um embracing uh relationship that you develop. And um I mean, you know, the right the right therapist. I don't know what it would be like to have it with to do this with someone for whom you did not feel that trust. I'm I'm glad that I don't have to answer that part of the question. So, we're out of time. Thank you so much Andy, Christina, Rachel, and Nigel for being here. [Applause] [Applause] Thank you all so much for

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: usUr6DKL57M (https://youtu.be/usUr6DKL57M) ===

okay what's up everyone welcome to simulation I'm your host Don Saki on and we are in a hot tub right now at dr. Rick Doblin house the founder of maps yeah it's great to have this meeting with you Alan this is part of my office I have had meetings here in the past my office is just indoors a few feet away but I just think this is a wonderful opportunity for us to have this chat exactly in a hot tub it's we're more relaxed oh yeah it's we're in Boston it's now approaching the end of spring early summer it's really nice out yeah Maps is the multidisciplinary Association for psychedelic studies you've been at it for 32 yeah master started in 86 DEA first tried to criminalize MDMA in 84 and so that's where I organized a group of therapists and researchers to sue the DEA to try to keep the therapeutic use of MDMA available we won the DEA lawsuit but the head of the DEA rejected the recommendation then we sue them in the appeals courts we want a couple times eventually the DEA lawyers got smart enough to figure out how to satisfy the appeals court and keep MDMA illegal and that's when I started maps in 86 because it was clear the only way was going to be through the FDA and through science but it's really since 1972 when I decided to focus my life on psychedelics after having a lot of difficult LSD trips and at 18 years old going through the guidance counselor in my college new college at Florida and saying there was a different era I said I need some help with my OST trips and the guidance counselor was fine with that and he said I'll help you and here's this book to read and it was realms of the human unconscious by Stan Grove yeah yeah which who we've been in touch with to come on the show as well oh he likes that ups to need a touch on that as well as this and then you your initial research was in the oral use versus the smoking use for cancer purposes for being able to was it that was not your control I can see chemotherapy yeah that was my first research as a master's student at Harvard at the Kennedy School government yep but the first research I ever did before was at my college which was follow-up twenty five year follow-up to the Good Friday experiment and so that was one of the key experiments that Timothy Leary was involved with at Harvard can you teach us about that yeah yeah yeah give us a little bit on that yeah the Good Friday experiment is phenomenal so it took place in 1962 a fellow named Walter panky was a minister and a doctor and going for PhD and Timothy there was his PhD advisor and what had been happening with all this Huxley and other people they'd been rediscovering psilocybin and other psychedelics and learning about their religious use for thousands of years and people had a lot of spiritual experiences from loss detail so they decided to do an experiment to see if psychedelics can produce mystical experiences and to give you a sense of how non-controversial this was this took place in Boston University Chapel on Good Friday and the minister was Howard Thurman who was one of the most dynamic black preachers in America and he was the mentor of Martin Luther King was Martin Luther King got a PhD at Boston University years before that and so he permitted this to be done so the experiment was basically twenty divinity students all-male from Andover Newton Theological Seminary and they went into church for about a three and a four hour service on Good Friday and beforehand before the service began everybody got a pill and half was gonna be a placebo they didn't know what was gonna be in it it turned out nicotinic acid acid which gives you kind of a hot flush but makes you think something's happening and psilocybin and so what was the dose the dose was thirty milligrams so it was a hefty dose in psilocybin synthetic psilocybin synthetic oh yeah and so what what had happened beforehand is Walter panky had spent like a year or so looking at the mystical literature from all over the world from different religions and he decided to try to create a questionnaire about the essence of the mystical experience across different religion so even though this was christened divinity students in Chapel on Good Friday it didn't have a single question about Jesus it was more about the abstract elements of a mystical experience which is the sense of unity a sense of connection everything's connected that's divided into internal unity and external unity yeah externals sort of in the world outline internally talk about that so much on the show the importance of finding the inner management within you and the inner divinity within yeah and then also the external oneness we talk about that so much and that collective consciousness of planet Earth orbiting the star and how to work together how to prosper together so it's so important that we've had experiments like this over time to help figure this out and that we're going in this direction yeah and the way the experiment worked I mean there's other aspects of it a transcendence of time and space a sense of something sacred or holy deeply felt positive mood the fact that it's transitory paradoxical ineffable that you can't really put it into words it's sort of pre verbal yeah it's something that just words are condensing they're not really capturing the full experience yeah and so the oh my god how do you describe the feeling of oneness with words it's internally and externally but this is an experimental - of this questionnaire that has been used all the way up til today from 1962 it's been slightly modified and it has been used in the psilocybin research in the OSD research we just finished in Switzerland so it's still being used this questionnaire is to be used yeah it's for and after well no it's a description so it's it's more a description of an experience so you write that you fill out the questionnaire so it's a numerical okay and that you have to technically have a 60% or more they have a full mystical experience okay on all these different dimensions mm-hmm and so what he it was an idea of the questions like yeah did you feel like you were beyond time you know did you feel that everything is connected in the universe he you know did you feel that that words would not be able to describe this mm-hmm and there's multiple different questions for each category and in the end what was discovered was that nine out of the 20 people had a mystical experience and eight out of those nine had the psilocybin awesome and so it was validating this idea that psychedelics which have been used for thousands of years but now in a scientific context could produce the spiritual mystical experiences yeah sigelei 262 now Walter Pankey who did the study then went on to be one of the premier psychedelic researchers with LSD and psilocybin he went to work with Stan Grof and Spring Grove Hospital in Maryland and then he tragically died in a scuba diving accident in 1971 and so when I started college in 71 took a bunch LSD you know dropped out in 72 and I dropped out for ten years always knowing I wanted to study psychedelics but I didn't know exactly where or how or anything like that so it took me 10 years to come back to college so in 82 I started and I wanted to do the new college where I went it's the Honors College to say too flirty everybody has to do just a thesis yep and I wanted to do psychedelic research but it was during the 80s when all research was shut down in the US and all over the world and then I started realizing that there's something even more important than doing new research which is doing follow-up studies to the old research yes and I figured here we are in the Nancy Reagan just say no escalation of the drug war in the 80s and because Walter pahnke he had died he wasn't around and nobody had thought to do a follow-up study to the Good Friday experiment and so I thought I can do that because I'm not asking to give drugs to anybody yes so I was gonna go and ask to follow up questions yeah I'm just gonna go talk to them and so that led to a whole drama of how I found them and all that but in the end I identified 19 out of the 20 who I flew all over the country to interview that yes and what I found for me was in some ways the key to the 1960s and so the two things that I found one was negative one was positive the negative thing that I found is that they had covered up the fact that one of the persons who had got the psilocybin was so inspired by Reverend Howard Thurman and part of his sermon about telling people that there's a man on the cross and this is your obligation and and he decided to tell somebody that there was a man on the cross and he thought I'm gonna tell the president who else should I tell and then he realized I'm in Boston and I'll tell the President of the University and he left the chapel and he went running down Commonwealth Avenue and so Timothy Leary and Houston Smith had to go chase him down and he didn't want to go back indoors here he was indoors in this Chapel now he's outside and he's got this mission so yeah they actually gave him a shot of Thorazine and never reported it and so what I discovered during this follow-up study is that they under emphasized the risks in a sense or the challenges yeah they kind of talked more about the mystical experience and not a lot about the struggles that people went through yes and they completely covered up this person that they we would not have tranquilize that person they that was just back in the 60s that's what they did we don't we think that's harmful rather than helpful okay but the other thing that I discovered in a positive way was that the people who had the mystical experience reported in their lives because of this deep sense of unity they also this transcendence of time and space in the sense they lost a lot of their fear of death and they decided to get politically engaged yeah now they were already ministers they were already socially justice minded but they got involved in the anti-vietnam War protests they got involved in the civil rights movement they got involved in the women's rights movement they got involved anti makes missile base saying they got involved in the environmental movement and so they made a link between their sense of unity from the mystical experience and motivation for social justice so I think when people talk about the 60s most people say oh there was this reaction to the all these psychedelics and it was all banned because all the problems with psychedelics but I think the real key to the 60s is that it was psychedelics going right that motivated people to get involved and challenging the status quo and that's what led to the back in the counterculture and to the counterculture yeah yeah it motivated the counterculture it scared the mainstream culture but that there is this link between this mystical experience whether it's from psychedelics or any other cause religion or meditation or fasting or floatation tanks flotation whatever it is and I think that's what we saw in the 60s as people got inspired and they challenged the status quo and Nixon like freaks out and that's why Timothy Leary was so for me this the first study ever was this that I ever did was this follow-up to the Good Friday experiment and that kind of validated my theory of social change as you listed all of these different things that also lead people to these feelings of wanting social change because it's not just about a psychedelic use it's also about a floatation therapy or a meditation or any of these other sort of ways of feeling oneness it can even be these longer episodes of looking into someone else's eyes or longer you have time just as simple as that they can catalyze the or even withstand rough developing holotropic breathwork he does aerobic breath hyperventilation and this whole world comes out what um give us a quick bit on the whole atrophic of breath work all right well Stan you know was the world's leading LSD researcher and when the backlash came he was some in the last group in the u.s. at the Maryland psychiatric Research Center that was still doing LSD research but I think it was 73 that he moved out to eslint and became the scholar in residence and in coast of California yeah and Big Sur that's beautiful beautiful spot and sort of the home of the human potential movement and it's still today remarkable remarkable spot but but but a lot of those people that were the psychedelic researchers went into looking at non drug catalysts because everything else was criminalized the small group went underground to continue a psychedelic therapy but most people sort of tried to figure out what are some other ways to catalyze these experiences that demonstrate breathwork was one of them yes so the whole urban breathwork stand realized that there's a lot of these meditation techniques that have breathing aspects to them and that traditionally when people are agitated and their emotions they have a like a panic attack they start hyperventilating it's true and and we may go to the emergency rooms what they do is they try to stop the hyperventilation and suppress the symptoms and so Stan and Christina his wife thought well what if we let the symptoms expand what if we encourage people to just let it all out just screaming maybe that's a better way than suppressing this mm-hm and so they worked for years and then developed this approach which they called holotropic breathwork that involves about three or four hours of lying down listening to very powerful evocative music and hyperventilating the last hour too is more for quiet for integration very very provoking music and then they would practice the short breath cycles yeah and that would maybe catalyze them to unleash what they had as feelings within them and then calm down at the end during this hour or two yeah and then at the end they may feel like oh I have finally let go of everything yeah and it's not so much short breaths what standard I mean I think the brilliant thing that he did too that he and Christina did was to not make it too much like certain kind of meditation techniques like six seven times in this nostril seven times in that you know all these complicated things what he would just say is breathe faster and deeper faster and deeper and find your own yeah yeah just keep going and you'll find them in a few minutes things will start to shift yeah you start losing control of your emotions and then the environment is there to help you lose control to help things come to the surface ìlet ated by professionals yeah which is another key point of your trials and your work that you're doing that was this facilitation you have the process yeah and I think the one thing that's important to stress here when we're talking about breath is that you know we talked about meditation or fasting or all these different ways that these are experiences that are human experiences catalyzed by all these different things they're not like drug experiences that are fundamentally hallucinations or distortions they're the property of the human mind and emotions and that there's all these different ways to to get into those space I love that and and that kind of grounds it it's kind of these are natural experiences and you can do it with breath all these different ways to get there and then get a sense of oneness within a sense of oneness of the collective now a quick right before we get to what's going on with maps give us the quick bit on what happened because the prison prison experiment that that was after okay so there's a Concord Prison Experiment Stanford Prison Experiment is a different one where people talk shows dressed up as either prisoners or guards yeah and it showed how people can be coerced into being cruel just by social roles even though they know they're making it up but the Concord Prison Experiment in Concord is just twenty ten miles that way okay and so what Tim realized is that and this was his other major experiment when he's horrible oh up it was after the good well it started before a little bit and lasted till after the Good Friday experiment and it was often mostly with Ralph Metzner yeah and a few others but what what Tim realized is that if people say they have a mystical experience or they say I'm happier now or whatever you just have their word for it so it's subjective in a way but he said what can we look at that's objective and he figured if we can work with prisoners right before they get paroled the object of measure is are they going back to prison or not so the idea of the conquered prison experiment was to help people before they get released to have this kind of pro-social mystical experience then hopefully once they get out they won't commit crimes the same rate and recidivism is lowered because of this yeah interest and recidivism just you just check it out everybody can agree yeah look they didn't come back octave yeah and so Tim reported this as tremendous success and it was one what it was the percentages well I'll see in just a second that that everybody thought I thought that this was one of the most important he's ever ever in the history of psychedelic yeah and it was tremendous success and he showed that you could reduce recidivism recidivism sucks because it takes away from that person's soul it takes away from the finances of our platform we're trying to educate people rather than imprison them further there's so many things that are or that this is really good for and then then them leaving there's so many movements for them to be people to know entrepreneurs after prison there's so many of these movements and so this is really crucial so I wanted to do this follow-up study to the Concord Prison Experiment because I thought this would bring to light one of the most important successes in psychedelic history from the 60s but the problem was that I didn't know who the prisoners were yeah there was no Tim didn't have any lists there was no way to find out who the prisoners were yeah so there happened to be a report I published a paper in 1991 about the Good Friday experiment follow-up and there was an article in The Boston Globe about it and then I got a call from a fella might foresee a he said I work for the prison system ooh and we have a special room for the files of famous prisoners and in that we have the files of all the people from the Concord Prison Experiment and then did you do a follow well yes so it took us a year to get permission we had well all the way up to the governor william weld at the time and the the piece of paper that we got that said we could do this study was incredible because somebody had done it was all permission but in handwriting somebody had said no psilocybin administration just to clarify now of course we were just gonna look at their records as said and they just want to emphasize absolutely not so eventually we did get to do all this we got to but then I started getting this sickening feeling in my stomach as I was working on this because the numbers were not shaping up to what Tim had reported so what I was finding in this follow-up study was that Tim had really twisted the data and he had reported on it multiple times over the years and the farther away it was from the original experiment the better and better the results he claimed that they were and what I was able to find then he start saying well at one point early on he said well they didn't have reduced recidivism but they were went back to prison for more minor things like parole violations rather than new cries okay so I'm sorting through this and I'm jetting off to hammer out all the nuance of it yeah well then it turns out that he completely fudged it complete aah and that people had gone back to prison for parole violations but that's because they had committed new crimes yeah and they were violated on other things and then they were convicted of those crimes so I could watch so and also the single episode is very difficult to give people to this pro-social well they would have several administration's too but what I also discovered was that near the so Timothy Leary got and Ronis they get kicked out and I think yeah yeah so they got kicked out in 63 but they started realizing that just like with drug abuse treatment you need support afterwards like with ibogaine all the people that get I began but then if they go back to the same environment correct yeah so they started a support group for the prisoners after they got out yes and then that fell apart after they got kicked out of Harvard so I think my conclusion of this is first off that Tim left science behind and became popular as AI popularizer yeah but I think he saw so much wrong information exaggerating the risks that he felt justified to exaggerate the benefits and you bring up that key point of community through this process and that same thing applies to us working with homeless relations yes communities after you go and onto parole what are the communities of people that help you stay out yeah yeah so my conclusion would be that we need to go back and replicate that experiment and do work with people before they get paroled and that that can be extremely helpful to work on their trauma work on all of their emotional problems and then though once they get out we need more support groups yep and then I think we probably will be able to reduce recidivism yep but it was very difficult for me to be the one who's an advocate for psychedelics to have to expose what the world thought of as one of the best experiments ever and to show that it was not done the results were not interpreted do you have a lot more work to do to make sure that they are interpret to that we do the right job along the way okay now let's break down Maps can you give us the breakdown in terms of the number one because right now you psycho so psychedelics and cannabis both so then we're looking at is it MDMA first and then psilocybin and then LSD and then cannabis or what's this breakdown well maps and there's other groups off there are other groups one called you Sona and one called the compass pathways so that are trying to develop psilocybin into a message a medicine for depression the compass is a for-profit company based in England and Ozona is a non-profit based in Madison Wisconsin so they're doing suicide and you're no we're not okay no it's just there so I mean to make a drug through a medicine oh gosh so obligated and so we've sort of focused on MDMA is our top priority with marijuana as our second and no LSD well we did fund the first LSD study in like 40 years okay but we have had to for strategic reasons because we don't have unlimited resources although a non-profit some nonprofit if somebody wanted to donate more we would be restart the LSD I mean we just had April 19th was the 75th anniversary of the discovery of LSD and there is studies in Switzerland being done looked at LSD for anxiety yeah but but we have realized that that we have to concentrate and it's you may assisted psychotherapy for PTSD and today is a tremendous day yeah very fortuitous that you guys have come by today so we got a paper published in Lancet psychiatry that is about one of our phase two studies that was in veterans firefighters and police officers with chronic treatment-resistant PTSD and we got absolutely great results you know we just watched the coverage on Fox News you know it's in the New York Times it's the American Psychiatric Association daily newsletter at the top key thing for today is our MDMA study it's been on CNN it's been in all the military comm websites and military sites so even Fox was playfully talking about the importance of this it was shocked shocking shocking to me but it's because of the veterans yes I think that they care more about veterans and PTSD and everybody fire from Fox these officers people bus yeah yeah well so this is where what I learned at the Kennedy School government so yeah where I got my masters in PhD and regulation of thematically used to schedule one so I also learned a lot about politics and so in sort of the psychedelic science we have to pick which drugs which patient populations which conditions and so we need to do we need to Blake break down the US and them because this was culture counterculture we need to in a sense show that it's helpful to them to the mainstream culture so we knew there's massive crisis with veterans in PTSD yes but I thought just for political reasons we'll say that the study is for veterans firefighters and police officers I didn't think we'd get any veterans I mean I didn't think we'd get any firefighters or police officers but in the end we did we got one one police officer and three firefighters and 22 veterans yes so and we got tremendous tremendous results can you tell us oh yeah so base to this is phase two what does that mean well so let's start so good you you begin with usually you'd be in what are called non clinical studies which are animal studies and trying to figure out the toxicity of the drug and what it might do physiologically how it might be helpful then you go into humans and that's called phase one and phase one are usually healthy volunteers dose response safety studies we're again you're trying to see what are the side effects maybe you get some clue as to the effects if it's a very dangerous drug like cancer chemotherapy drugs it's called combination phase one phase two where you bring in actual patients because the risks the non patients would be too great but then then you move to Phase three and those are the large-scale multi-site studies that are meant to be the definitive studies to prove safety and efficacy to get permission to market a drug as a prescription medicine there's also what's called phase four studies and so the FDA can require additional research after the drug is approved so for example the FDA is requiring us to do work in adolescents with PTSD because many many drugs are studied in adults but they're never studied in kids and they're prescribed off-label for kids but therapists and physicians they don't know the dose they don't know if it'll really work there's all sorts of things so the FDA is now more and more requiring pharmaceutical companies and in this case maps as a nonprofit were being treated the same way so we're being required to do a study in 12 to 17 year olds with PTSD who have failed on other treatments but that's a phase four study after a drug is approved okay right so what we did Maps got started in 86 it took us till 92 took us six years to get permission for the first phase one safety study Wow yeah and that took years to do and then it wasn't until 2000 1999 and 2000 that we got permission for the first phase to study which was MDMA for post-traumatic stress disorder and that was done in Spain and unfortunately we had very good results and there was good media and the early stages of the study that alerted the Madrid anti-drug Authority and they shut the study down for political reasons it was super frustrating so but then we were able in 2000 for to start the first study in the US and that study was mostly women survivors of childhood sexual abuse and adult rape and assault so it was almost entirely women in this first study and the results were outstanding so roughly 83% of them no longer had PTSD and this was how many was the sample size this was 21 21 and this is administered over how long this is about a three and a half month process with the three MDMA sessions one month apart and twelve 90-minute non drug psychotherapy sessions well you have three before the first MDMA session okay then three for preparation and then three after each MDMA session for integration Wow then two months after the last MDMA session is what's called the primary outcome measure that's what the FDA is going to consider and then there's a 12-month follow-up and sometimes we do even longer it's not sort of approval that's more for the 18 of them are so said that they did not feel like they well they didn't so much say it is that there's a hour-long interview developed by the Veterans Administration called the clinician administered PTSD scale or the cows and that's how us yes even today we're even today yeah it's it's the gold standard all over the world it was used to approve zoloft and paxil for PTSD it's the measure that the FDA walls okay and so they reported on the caps to these independent raters who didn't know were they in the MDMA group were they in the placebo group so one group would go through this with therapy and get a pill that would be an inactive placebo and the other would go through it and get one do you may so everybody got the therapy but what buried was what's in the bill yeah and so then we realized that it was important for us to start working with veterans because that means only 11 well well it's a little bit more complicated you're right about that so well you don't always have to do 50/50 okay so we did we did 13 and 813 unit 13 got MDMA and the placebo but what we do is everybody in the placebo group once we have this blinded pilot of this two-month primary outcome measure then everybody that's in the placebo group can go through it again open label means they are all gonna get MDMA so the 83% is either the people that went through it so what we were able to show is that by looking at how the people did with therapy and then how well they did when we added MDMA that roughly forty percent of the benefit is from the therapy and sixty percent is from the drug okay which is really good because that means is that most of it is from the drug yeah and so we can have a wide range of skills in the therapists and people are still likely to get better and also people can heal themselves we hear them too these stories about people that took them do you may at a rave and they remember trauma and they were able to work through it or we have terrible stories of people that took MDMA at a rape remember trauma and they're with friends who just want a party party and then they try to stuff their feelings down and they are worse off for months afterwards yeah so it's not the drug it's the drug assistance psychotherapy and being willing to process it yeah and so the willingness to process and so what we've done so far is a hundred and seven patients in all six different studies since 92 since well the 92 one doesn't count because that's that's not PTSD patients but yeah so there's an additional 28 patients from that study okay and that's part of our safety database but 107 of PTSD patients with god MDMA okay and November 29 2016 we had a meeting with the FDA which is called an end of phase 2 meeting that's where you present your data safety and efficacy and say we want to go to the big time we want to go to Phase three and make it into a medicine yes and the FDA said yes we clicked and then they have a new program relatively new that's called special protocol assessment and you can voluntarily engage in this special protocol assessment and what happens is that you negotiate every aspect of your design with the FDA and a lot of pharmaceutical companies don't like to do it because it delays things six to 12 months and they've got a patent and they're trying to get it approved and they're not doing anything very controversial are very complex from a scientific methodological point but we are doing both controversial and complex because how do you do a double-blind you know if you've taken the drugs that so we went through this special protocol assessment and 28th of July of 2017 we reached agreement great all right and then the big thing is that we also so that was the most important program of the FTA because now they are legally bound to approve the drug if that design gets statistically significant evidence of efficacy and no new safety problems come up and it's unlike a new drug where you know drugs that pharmaceutical companies are tested in a few thousand people then you let it loose and you see the one and a hundred thousand side effect but you know tens and tens and tens of millions people have taken MDMA ecstasy for decades and decades so we know the safety profile so that's something manufactured last year yeah who knows what's in it knows what's in it yeah yeah so so then what we said is the most the most visible program the FDA has is called breakthrough therapy we're here and so two-thirds of the applications from big pharma for breakthrough therapy for their drugs are rejected so it's really just for drugs for serious or life-threatening illnesses for which there's a large population of people that don't get relief from the currently available drugs and your preliminary phase two evidence or preliminary evidence phase one suggests that this could be a breakthrough for them cool so I was a little bit concerned under President Trump and under attorney General Sessions with FDA be willing to be so public about their support and their promise of MDMA research yeah and so August 15th they said yes we have breakthrough therapy designation so that's going to help us get it approved we have more meetings with the FDA they're now partnering with us and trying to make it through the system amazing all right so what we're doing right now and then I should say over the last few months starting in December to March an astonishing thing happened is we raised over ten million dollars yeah and it was because of Mr Pyne we think it's mr. but it's pine from the pineapple fund and said a crypto fund yes so so what happened is this guy pine all we know is pine we had borderline personality disorder and was depressed and so he was looking for treatment and he decided that he would try ketamine treatment Jack's at this point he had not heard about maps he had no idea about maps so under the influence of ketamine he has this vision and the vision is that the way for him to start feeling better and to get out of these loops of depression and borderline personality is to help other people yeah that helping other people is sort of the key and he decided that he had made so much money in Bitcoin that he would give away eighty six million dollars worth of bitcoins and he put a little notice in reddit just a paragraph or two multiple people sent in saw it immediately and sent a map supply for this yeah and we had then one of her staff submitted a one-page application wow this is even before I even heard of haha so Wow people are emailing staff they spend one page up you have a great team we do a fantastic team so then the next day we got an email from pine saying I'm giving you a million dollars and two hours later they showed up the Bitcoin showed up in our wallet Wow then he said I might be willing to give you a matching grant so we talked about that for a while and then he gave us a four million dollar matching grant that was expiring March 10th from January 10th to March 10th and so we were able to use that to get four million dollars from other people 1 million of which was also in bitcoins we also got a million dollars from bitcoins from somebody we don't even know who it is yeah and then we got three quarters of a million from another cryptocurrency coin called the loon which is used for like what they want to do is kind of a Wikipedia where you pay the authors in these loons and ads and we're competing with that anyway we got all these donations so we have now shockingly been able to raise twenty six million dollars hell yes yeah five million from dr. Bronner's Shawna Halley who was a tech wizard who was on our board of directors who died 2012 and left us five and half million in his will that we saved two and a half million from good ventures which was an early Facebook yeah person is giving us that money but any case we have this war chest of 26 million dollars and it's it was in October right before this started happening that I realized that the nationalist and mental health and the Department of Defense and the VA we're not going to give us a penny even though FDA it said it's a breakthrough even though they have a massive problem with PTSD yeah but well it's the stigma of these drugs yeah it seems like the VA is stigma of the drugs just doesn't there's a reason also on top of money it's about the persecution of minorities I mean if we look at you know look at Florida where Bush got elected and where which went for Trump and they have arrested loads and loads of african-americans who tend to vote Democratic and once you get a felony arrest then you can't vote in Florida are you so it's called felony disenfranchisement yeah so the war on drugs is a tool of politics to make it so that the Republicans win Democrats a lot of them didn't realize that until too late yeah but but in any case there's this whole problem where we realize that we're not gonna get any support from the official world yeah and then I started thinking okay well in a way I'm glad it's been 30 plus years but you haven't this far without it yeah so now we'll be able to say that it's a gift to the world MDMA is a gift to the world from the psychedelic community but now I have to say that it's a gift to the world from the psychedelic and cryptocurrency and so what we're doing right now is working with the final step of training the therapists and so we've got a protocol that the therapists that we've trained 84 therapists 42 male-female killer P teams and they're each getting a patient with PTSD to work with in open-label which means again everybody knows they're getting MDMA it won't count for efficacy because not card up part of a controlled study and so we're in the final stages of training the therapist at 16 sites there - in Israel - in Canada and the rest in the u.s. is good and so this summer we're starting phase 3 and we think by 2021 we'll have MDMA approved as a prescription that's amazing right so the other thing before we run out of light out here I'll just say that we're also doing the only study in America with marijuana for PTSD yeah it's it's the only marijuana drug development study for any reason under way in the United States there are studies by GW Pharmaceuticals with CBD extract Jim that's for childhood epilepsy and they're gonna get approved they just had their FDA advisory committee but we're the only ones working with the plant and it's with 76 veterans with chronic treatment-resistant PTSD it's taking place with dr. sue Sisley in Phoenix Arizona great and we got 2 point 1 million dollars from the state of Colorado amazing so they've made roughly 500 million dollars in marijuana taxes they did about 10 million for research perfect and we got to 21 million so that's our first government grant ever but it's a state government so we've now enrolled 56 of 76 veterans the Phoenix VA is refusing to refer subjects again stigma and Prejudice we're gonna get enough subjects there anyway and then the big issue and this is what we're also working on with marijuana is how do you make marijuana into a medicine because right now for the last 50 years since 1968 there's only one source of marijuana that's grown under DEA license that federally legal that can be used in FDA approved studies and that's grown at the University of Mississippi under contract to the National ensign drug abuse and they can provide for research but they cannot provide a commercial medicine and so phase 3 which I've decided to described as the major studies they have to be done with the exact same drug that you want to market so because NIDA Marijuana can not be marketed we cannot move to Phase three so since 1999 in 2000 we've been trying to break this monopoly and as of August 12 2011 it's holding us back massively and there was just an incredible article in Businessweek Bloomberg Businessweek that said America is giving away the 30 billion dollar medical marijuana industry you know because there's Canadian companies British companies Israeli companies correct Dutch companies but not any federally legal US come exactly giving it a it's stupid stupid and it's a jobs program so we're trying to sell trucks this is about job in a health no this yeah and this will reduce health care class because marijuana is cheap compared all these pharmaceutical drugs that it will replace yes sir which is another one of the things potentially holding ya back yeah so so what we're are we okay yeah what's up we're back inside now after the great hot tub session dried off and we're ready to continue it with a conversation yeah so where I was that was saying that this of government monopoly on marijuana is something that's essential that we break and it's been kept protected by the DEA because they have not wanted good research about benefits of marijuana to take place but we've worked on this a long time in 2005 we had a lawsuit against the DEA and we won the lawsuit in 2007 the DEA administrative law judge said it would be in the public interest for us to get a license to grow marijuana we were working actually with Professor Lyle Kraker at UMass Amherst but the DEA just like with an MDMA situation the head of the DEA rejected the recommendation but they waited almost two years before they did anything and they five days before Obama took office they rejected the recommendation just to screw it up so that he wouldn't face this fresh and so it took a while into his second term but August 12 2016 DEA finally said that they would end the monopoly and since then 26 or so people have applied for licenses but then we got trump and then we've got sessions and sessions has been blocking the DEA are you but recently he's under a lot of pressure from different senators as we get more medical marijuana like slovak washington state oh my god so well Camilla Harris Orrin Hatch is actually one of the main Republican senators is one of the main advocates for ending the monopolies Wow Camilla Harris the senator from California senator schatz from Hawaii senator gillibrand from New York senator Earl Warren Elizabeth Warren from Massachusetts so there's more and more pressure and they realized that this business is growing that we are giving it away to the world correct and so yeah a lot of smart people here that should be researching this getting better at helping people with this yeah and all of the state marijuana they're producing way better quality than the government can provide but none of it is federally legal so we can't use any of it in FDA research so that's our big thing is to try to break the monopoly and then if we get good results from this marijuana PTSD study and veterans you know then we'll expand it and one of the interesting things for those of your viewers from Michigan is that there's going to be a marijuana legalization initiative on the ballot in November in Michigan and the way it was written it was written by some friends of ours they put in their 20 million dollars a year for two years for research into cannabis for veterans to help reduce suicides perfect so if the Michigan legalization initiative passes eventually there'll be loads of money for making the plant and so our goal is to take the plant in bud flower form and make it into a medicine either smoked or vaporized there's I think that's the wind okay there's there's loads and loads of companies for profit that are going to take the marijuana plant slice and dice it extracts and non-smoking delivery systems that they patent and all that's good and all that should move forward because that provides important tools but what we want to do is have generic buds available at very low cost and then there'll be a little bit of a check on the prices that other people could charge for all their other stuff but I'm flying with for-profit drug development and we will cooperate with them share what we know but but we want to take the bud and in Israel right now they grow very good high potency buds trim two buds for 60 cents a gram which is about fourteen dollars an ounce super duper high potency buds so it's going to be a very inexpensive medicine yeah and I think that's what as a non-profit we're hearing more about public health and course making loads money and that's the Oceaneer that that's what we want to do marijuana so now I'm I'm hearing that we're approaching this era of this collaboration or this competition a little bit yeah and we so we're doing this with cannabis this is happening with psychedelics now with psilocybin we were mentioning these two organizations sauna sauna sauna a new sauna you so not encompass yeah okay and so then there's what we just described with Mississippi having this monopoly yeah and versus being able to take cannabis for the for the for the better for research and give it for people's health and test it research doing all this across the u.s. and the world so this conversation happens a lot on simulation we talk a lot about globalization we talk a lot about collaboration and how to not exacerbate wealth inequality how to not yeah how to not exacerbate or hiccups that we might have with the proliferation of artificial intelligence the proliferation was bio warfare over-regulation and things like that we're profiteering rather than focusing on people's health and so this leads us into this discussion point which is how are we going to as companies want to figure out how to innovate and fund lots of dollars in innovation and then they want to you know patent their innovations and their processes but at the same time you don't want to inhibit other people from just picking psilocybin right from the from the forests and are using it you don't want to embrace in them for yes so how do we figure this I think you put your hair and one of the more complicated issues that sort of split the psychedelic research community so you're basically talking about legalization how do we make it so people can have access to these drugs for their own benefit religious or recreational even or therapeutic without having to go through a pharmaceutical company and a doctor or without having to go through a religion and so I think that is the long-term goal is to make it so that we look at prohibition and see it as a system of repression against minorities in particular political minorities or african-americans or Mexicans or Chinese or the whole history of prohibition in the u.s. that we move to a public health approach but I think the before that this question of how medicalization leads to legalization that's what we've seen with medical marijuana yeah that's what's changed people's attitudes towards legalization of marijuana so I think we have to medicalize psychedelics and then we'll get to this point but then how do we medical eyes and that's where there is also this competition or cooperation so I think that for-profit drug development is fine I think that you do have you know wrong incentives a lot of times and so when what maps has done you know a lot of times people say I'm I don't think marijuana should be illegal I don't want people going to jail for it but I don't want big alcohol and Big Tobacco Big Pharma to start selling marijuana and they'll sell it to kids and they'll don't sell it to have users and they don't care if it's addictive or they won't and they'll add chemicals to it as well it won't remain organic that's the tip the cigarettes that I smoke it's not tobacco it's the drugs that keep me back yeah coming back for ten bucks a day hmm sorry and so what we've done is we're trying to not just pioneer new treatments with psychedelics in marijuana but a new way to sell pharmaceuticals so we've created what we think is the maybe it's the only public benefit corporation in the pharmaceutical space there are other nonprofit pharmaceutical companies though so but they tend to develop drugs and then they sell it off to some other for-profit company to market so what we have is the maps public benefit corporation that is maximizing public benefit not profits to sell MDMA you know it's a for-profit company because we need to pay taxes on the income from MDMA but it has only one investor in the maps public benefit which is the nonprofit's nonprofit controls the for-profit that's what will sell MDMA that's what's doing our research will fund the research yeah yeah and then whatever profits we make from you we'll find more research it doesn't have to stick with them do you make it fun LSD research so that's how we're structured that seems to be the seed that's structured in a very ethical way yeah and that's what we love and that's what we want to hear more of and we don't know some seeds are not structured that ethical way it sounds like that's starting to happen a little bit well I think that for profit can be ethical as well and there's just a general suspicion of pharmaceutical companies that's totally justified based on the way they've performed but they don't have to perform that way so I think there's another issue which is people are suffering there are millions and millions of people with depression so the fact that compass has decided to try to work with investors to make psilocybin into a medicine for depression and USANA is working with donors to make it into a medicine we're helping both of them so we're cooperating with both and I think both are legitimate and I think there's a little bit of a difference in what how they're approaching it from a business point of view what compass is trying to do is to use the minimum to get it at the minimum amount of cost to help the most people and so in a way that made up reducing therapists reducing therapist hours trying to have the drug do as much of it as possible and there's dangers there you can just say hey here's like what's being done that with ketamine for depression it works for a lot of people but it would I think and many people think it might be more effective if it were combined with psychotherapy definitely but people are just saying oh here's ketamine and you know and then you were off on your own there's not help to integrate it and there's not that much help to prepare for it but we see pine who had his experience under ketamine that inspired him to support maps and he said one of the things he realized is that when he was under the influence of ketamine he wished that he would have had support from a therapist yeah and the fact that we're talking about mdma-assisted psychotherapy made him feel more comfortable but the point is we are willing to cooperate with anybody that is trying to make these drugs into medicines whether they're for profit or not and I think that both can be done ethically you know you can have an unethical nonprofit where you pay yourself millions of dollars worth of salaries and you buy how your your family and you you know you you know so it's more about the Board of Directors and what's what's the purpose of it why and and we've got this whole way so far with only donors no ambassadors yeah we're in a really good shape exactly yeah yeah and that's very similar to what we're doing with our studio space and our creative incubating effort is that we're sustaining off of patreon off of the service for creators and artists that get paid every month by people I believe in them yeah and that way you know same thing where you can totally take of the creative effort of this community and see where it goes together with that so yeah we're talking about the seed and the importance of the ethics behind the seed and then you said it there are many people that are working a for-profit to decrease the cost as much as possible so that they can give it to people should there also be psychotherapy combined with that what's the efficacy of that see this is gonna be these next coming conversations it's gonna be really exciting really interesting and phase three is come moving forward with MDMA and pts deeds now you were on talking about on Fox News is amazing yeah so we're really grateful to have this opportunity to sit down together yeah Rick I want to ask you a couple quick questions that we typically ask on a simulation on the show I want to ask you first what's the deepest emotion you've ever felt well well okay well I mean I'm you know so I'll describe this was this was what prepared me I would say to get married and so this was an experience in 1985 there's a couple years before I met my wife but it was an MDMA experience and I was camping out by myself doing MDMA all night and I was trying in a way to think about the DEA how do I as I'm getting more public how do I stay safe that is a part of it was that a saloon at Big Sur so I was camping out so the mountains go right down to the water of a camping down right there there's a place where I found where the high tide came within a few feet there was this little space that the high tide wouldn't get to because of boulders out in the ocean so this is a protected spot with the roaring of the ocean and there was a little freshwater creek running by and so I was kind of alone in the universe this enormous universe with the roaring of the massive Pacific Ocean and but I was also thinking about brother David Stein de Rossi who was a very inspirational person for me and he was a Roman Catholic monk mystic ecumenical but he was willing to do MDMA and had done MDMA in the monastery to help him meditate and found that it was useful and it was even willing to be public about it he was in the first art so I was trying to think why would somebody want to celibate life I was at this point without a girlfriend between relationships and I was just sort of thinking how do I stay safe from the DEA and I don't think about what's what's the value of a monastic life so anyway I focus a lot on your mission and your values and making the world better yeah and that's very interesting that you even bring that up because I think many people get pushed by their genetics into procreation yeah and and so they they put their sometimes their impact on the world second to having a family or they try and combine them somehow which is also very good but but to just do this whole celibate life for the greater good of humanity's mind blow and I was just trying to sort it out like what was in it for him and so it was in the middle of the night and I had this this one moment where I felt yeah the universe is just so enormous leave asked and the stars are just so knowing that the pounding of the ocean and stuff and just you know and I felt like I'm so tiny in this vast universe that I might just disappear you know and there was a little bit of fear like I would just disappear into the universe and at some point I realized that I hadn't disappeared and then I started thinking well why am I not flying off into the universe and I started thinking about gravity the gravity was kind of holding my molecules together he was molding me there and then I had this image of gravity like love that pulled things together and then I felt like I was being cradled in the arms of gravity like gravity was a lover and I was in the arms of a lover being cradled and it felt this enormous sense of connection to the universe to the loving nature of the universe yeah and and that image of just being cradled in the arms of gravity yes and I I felt like then that I was always in touch with this possibility of love whether I had lover or not yeah it was what from the universe and that that is what the monastic life is supposed to help you get to Wow you don't connect to particular lovers or families but you sort of have this Universal Universal I want to love her too I decided not to go for the self at life you'd want to share that with that understanding you want to share that you want to give back and you can't give it back to the universe but yeah I hear you yeah that's a good one cradled by the universe cradled by the arms of gravity gravity yeah because you're so aware of existence and then that helps you really feel the love within you of the cosmos and then also enables you to give love out from you okay and then how about since we are speaking about the cosmos mm-hmm do you think we're alone in the cosmos well I mean it's hard to believe that we're lone I mean it's so vast how could it be that we're alone do I believe that there's been visitors from outer space that are here if not necess do you think advanced civilizations are roaming the cosmos possibly I don't know I mean look at it this way we're about to destroy the planet we could easily through environmentalism through through disregard of the environment we've got all these incredible technologies Einstein said that our technology has exceeded our humanity yeah so maybe there are no more advanced civilizations maybe they've also self-destructed correct and you know whether we're gonna self-destruct or not is not clear yeah whether we're gonna survive or not so it's a first so I think that the question really is does it matter if there were people from outer space if there were you know what would I do differently so I think that's really then how I've wrestled with do I need to find out if there was you know do I need to start looking at UFO literature so you know if somebody from an outer space landed and that would I do anything differently I'm doing whatever I can the best I can yes to try to help people cope with the challenges of protecting the species protecting the planet for taking the other species so I wouldn't do anything differently I'm doing exactly what I want to be doing what I think is the most important so whether there are spirits out there or not I don't know I was just actually asked to write a blurb for a book there's a group of people that got together to talk about experiences under the influence of DMT where do you have this experience of some alien intelligence is it really a lian's what is it you know of course they did not resolve it to be certain is a mistake it's just a mystery and I can easily believe that there's other intelligences and hopefully our senses get augmented to the point where we can explore past the 3d and figure it out so yeah cosmic siblings let's find them I care a lot about that I care a lot about figuring out the history of the cosmos and where these dirty filters happened okay how about do you think we're in a computer simulation again the same question is does it matter I mean thing matter you know people seem to either experience pleasure or pain I experience pleasure of aim it feels real so whether it's a computer simulation or not who cares awesome and then maybe we do what is the most beautiful thing in the world well I've heard this that for men the most beautiful thing in the world is a naked woman and for women it's a baby which reminds me of a poem of EE Cummings my favorite Cummings poems very short let's see a pretty woman who naked is is worth a million statues awesome been such a pleasure because public education is absolutely crucial I mean we're doing the research but we've got to get the word out gotta get the word out and there's so many layers to what we unpacked today yeah everybody thank you so much for tuning in if you guys found this content to be useful definitely give it a share share it with other people around you let's get more word out about the importance of psychedelics and what they can do for humanity and what they have been doing for so long and really get this in the hands of researchers and practitioners and healing and he if you want more information maps and ApS maps org in the bio as well yeah and if you want to donate we would be grateful absolutely and it's really important again share links in and B in the bio join us in the donation as well give the content a like comment below let us know your thoughts give us a subscribe join the community join us on patreon we need to continue supporting the sustainability of this project so we can bring all of the goodness across all these fields to you and thank you very much for tuning in and we'll catch you guys soon thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 02l8LCxWSGU (https://youtu.be/02l8LCxWSGU) ===

I think MDMA-assisted psychotherapy is one of the most important things that we need to be focusing on right now, in terms of mental health. It blows every other treatment
for PTSD out the water, and that's pretty self-evident
with the results and data. What MDMA therapy, and the treatment, and the process, and everything
spurs in you is a blooming. It just made an enormous
impact on my daily life, and the ability to take care
of my little baby daughter, still. I think that while MDMA is incredible help as a treatment for PTSD, I don't think it alone is enough. You have to definitely couple it with some type of intentional therapy. This has been the most effective
treatment I've ever done, and that was three years
ago since my last session, and I'm still in control of my life, and I can still feel, I can still relax, and
I'm so grateful for that. It's helped me so much, and I want that same
kind of help available for other people. There are a lot of
people hurting out there. Everybody knows somebody
who's traumatized. What I would mention was just veterans, and other active-duty service members, but there's plenty of other
people that suffer from PTSD. You've got firefighters. You got law enforcement. You got rape victims. You got people that have been mugged. You got people with car crashes. So this really has the potential
to heal so many people. After going through the treatment myself, it's so sad to me to think that there are so many people
out there suffering from PTSD that don't have the access
now to what I have had. I think that it's so important
that we have the research that we need to get MDMA legal, so that those people can
have that experience, and can finally be
brought into themselves. To know that we are preventing people from seeking the same treatment that I did to help me get my life back, hurts my heart so much. If we see that this is working, we don't need to walk towards
it, we need to run towards it. My life is full of changes. I can feel love. I'm more alive with my kids,
I'm more here with my kids. I feel real. Now what I hear is, "You're so much more yourself." "You're so much more alive."

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: DhKRha3bQ2M (https://youtu.be/DhKRha3bQ2M) ===

we're predicting or our modeling is that by 2028 we hope to have trained 23 000 psychedelic therapists for mdma for ptsd um and then they will set up all these clinics and all of that but what is really important is to recognize that even though there are separate companies that are doing different individual drugs some companies doing psilocybin some doing ibogaine some doing mdma like us that really the field is psychedelic psychotherapy and that's what we're trying to do and we're trying to give these therapists tools to customize and personalize psychedelic medicine to their patients so we're gonna need to train therapists in mdma psilocybin ketamine lsd cross-train therapists and so the the big step is going to be getting schools of psychiatry and schools of psychotherapy embedding in their training programs for degree credit there's starting to be now a few like california institute for integral studies but sorry cis has a certificate program but it's not part of their degree program okay so we need to embed in degree programs psychedelic psychotherapy training and then i would say that the early psychedelic therapists of the past the ones right now uh who are operating will all agree that therapists are more effective if they've done the drug themselves so it doesn't mean that if you're a therapist who who's done mdma you're better than a therapist that's not done mdma it just means that you're better than you would have been otherwise and so we need to also figure out ways in a protocol in a legal way to give therapists training with their own experiences but in a way that's not so expensive that's not heavily protocolized and lots of data gathering so that's going to be a real thing so embedding training programs and schools of psychiatry and psychotherapy including the opportunity for therapists to be experience the drugs themselves that's going to be a real big limiting factor um you know getting all of the um clinics laid out and optimized that's going to be a big thing and then the the other big thing to share is group therapy so we really need to be and we're now in the near final protocol development stages of a protocol for group therapy to take place at the portland va so what that means is that these clinics which may initially be set up for individual therapy you know small rooms and and you know patients and therapists together we're going to need to optimize also for group therapy so that some of these clinics are need are going to need larger spaces for for groups but we haven't proven the group therapy model yet but i think that's going to be a big one going forward

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: KsuMJtuYtc8 (https://youtu.be/KsuMJtuYtc8) ===

I'm Rick dablin I've trained with uh Stan grath and also have a PhD from the Kennedy School of government at Harvard I started in 1986 a nonprofit called the multi-disciplinary association for psychedelic studies and I still direct it president of it basically we're a nonprofit psychedelic and medical marijuana pharmaceutical company trying to develop these drugs into FDA approved prescription medicines we also have projects all over the world I just learned today that we got approval from the Ethics Committee in Switzerland for our LSD study with um people with anxiety facing end of life issues it'll be the first LSD Psychotherapy study in 35 years um last week we got approval from the FDA to make a change in our study with MDMA for cancer patients so that now we can enroll subjects and that study is taking place at Harvard it's going to be the first psychedelic research at Harvard since 1965 so 42 years and we're doing a lot with medical marijuana as well or at least a lot of lawsuits not a lot of research and that's um we have a lot of public education aspects to what we do we try to change cultural attitudes uh we got a Lobby campaign we now for the first time have a full-time lobbyist in DC trying to generate pressure on the DEA to let us start a medical marijuana production facility at um Amer yeah and if you'd like to learn more more about this all go to the maps website www. maps maps.org and we have all sorts of information on there and if you have any questions you can write at U ask maps maps.org and we'd be glad to respond to your questions as well [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: EFoRZO6U_2U (https://youtu.be/EFoRZO6U_2U) ===

[Applause] well thank you very much uh it's a pleasure to be here and I'm really um encouraged to see all the interest here in Iceland and our hope is that we can um leave with a more um open environment to try to start MDMA research and other research here in Iceland so I'm going to talk to you about um the path to FDA approval and then our globalization but I'd like to start by saying um why MDMA and why PTSD so this was a strategic decision made um 36 years ago and I felt that it was um important to try to look at which psychedelic would be most likely to make it through the system first and then paired it with what clinical condition and I had seen MDMA be very um revitalizing the the Therapeutic Community from the midle middle 70s to the early ' 80s I learned about MDMA in ' 82 um when it was both used as a therapy drug it was legal at the time it was called adom but it was also being used in a recreational setting under the name ecstasy and so it was clear that the legal status of it was doomed this was during Nancy Reagan the just saying no and the fact that ecstasy was being used in a public setting would mean that it was going to be attracting the ition of The Drug Enforcement Administration and its time as a legal therapy drug was was limited but we knew about the fact that the DEA was going to find out about it but they did not know about the therapeutic use so they only knew about the recreational use so we had a several years to prepare to try to protect MDMA but MDMA is the most gentle of all the psychedelics it's the easiest to integrate it's the least ego dissolution it's the most most uniformly um positive not always but um and one of the most important parts of trying to bring a psychedelic into more widespread acceptance is that we feel that the therapists and psychiatrists who are going to be working with it would be more effective if they have tried the drug themselves I you wouldn't go to a yoga teacher who doesn't do yoga or a meditation teacher who doesn't meditate and we felt that there's going to be a lot more fear and resistance among psychiatrists and psychotherapists to volunteering for psilocybin or for LSD than there would be if they would be open to MDMA so for all those reasons we felt that MDMA would be the drug that would most likely make it through the regulatory system first but then we had to figure out what is it that it would be used for and in 1984 I had an opportunity to work with a PTSD patient who was suicidal who had been in an institution um she had actually this is a cautionary tale it's really important to say this that I'd actually um sold MDMA to a friend of mine um who had done it with his girlfriend and um during this MDMA experience I didn't know her at all but during this MDMA experience memories of past um rape and almost murder had um Arisen and she had been in and out of mental institutions before she had been um treated by psychiatrists before and during this MDMA experience that she had they had intended to this be a romantic experience but this trauma had come to the surface and it was so strong that they couldn't contain it they they weren't able to do it and she felt that she needed to check herself into a mental institution to avoid hurting herself to avoid committing suicide and after she was stabilized for around six days or so she got out of the institution and was given the same SSR eyes and she was hopeless she knew that this was not going to help her it hadn't helped her before and so my friend said to me can you work with her um and I felt like I'm not qualified I'm just learning to be a therapist but she had no other options so I thought okay I will try to work with her I contacted her on the telephone and I said um if you promise not to commit suicide while we're working together you know I I'll I'll I'll give it a try and so she she agreed to do that and then I saw her get better and it was just astonishing how much she got better so um I knew then that MDMA was tremendous for PTSD now we also needed a clinical condition that would be suffered by people that would be appreciated by the society and that was there was a lot at this point there was a lot of Vietnam veterans that had still had PTSD so in America we have the veterans on a pedestal in many different ways and so we needed a condition that was very serious that was very expensive if it wasn't treated that it could lead to Suicide that it could lead to disabilities that it would cost insurance companies a lot of money and again that we would have sympathetic patients um not just veterans but also women who'd been sexually abused or assaulted so that became this idea of MDMA for post-traumatic stress that that was the Strategic idea of this would be the way that we would try to bring psychedelics back and so over the um 36 years then that I started Maps there was a nonprofit before maps that we used to um sue the DEA to try to keep MDMA uh legal as a therapy drug once in 1984 they moved to try to criminalize it and we ended up um winning the the legal case but the Drug Enforcement Administration decided not to listen to the judge and criminalized MDMA so both therapeutic use and recreational use they they we took them totally by surprise they had no idea that it was used by the therapists and we had introduced it to a wide range of people including um religious leaders and so MDMA is tremendous in half doses for meditation and so uh Brother David steinel Rost who was a Roman Catholic monk um kind of an ecumenical monk had um used it in the monastery to meditate Rabbi zman Shaker a Jewish renewal expert Rabbi who' compared MDMA to the Sabbath so when the legal cases took place we had monks and rabbis and psychiatrists from Harvard Medical School and all over testifying in patients so we were able to really win in the courts and win in the court of public opinion but in the end we lost and then it was clear that we needed to go through the FDA so Maps was started in ' 86 six and since then we've raised about $140 million in donations or grants but we've now um seen the rise of the for-profit Psychedelic companies and it's been more difficult for us to raise all the money from philanthropy some a lot of the people who were philanthropists were like well now we'd rather invest and maybe that's the way you should go so we have gotten 43 million in a a revenue share which is not owner ship not stock and we're getting a $20 million loan so at this moment Maps is the sole owner of the maps public benefit Corporation and so what in 2014 we started the public benefit Corporation and we want to innovate in two different ways the first way to innovate is psychedelic assisted Psychotherapy the second way is how do we Market a pharmaceutical drug I think in America in particular where we don't have National Healthcare uh the profit motive has warped healthc care out of all common sense and so we have the highest per capita expenditures on healthc care but we have um the outcomes around 40 or 50 among the countries because there's so much money is being taken by insurance companies by um other profit seeking entities so what we wanted to do is create the public benefit Corporation as our pharmaceutical arm and it's a modific ation of capitalism there's now thousands of these public benefit corporations and what's unique about them is that in the traditional Corporation what you need to do is maximize profits and if the shareholders decide that the management is not maximizing profits they can try to displace them they'll have shareholder lawsuits and they will try to put new management there that will maximize profits but in a public benefit Corporation you put the public benefit over profit and that's the way that we want and that's what I think healthcare in general should go to so right now we are the public benefit Corp is wholly owned by the nonprofit maps and and we're hoping now that we will be able to sustain that through philanthropy that's going to be a challenge for us uh because of the large sums of money we need to move through to commercialization patient access and to what we're calling a sustainability point where income from the sale of MDMA if FDA approves it covers all of our expenses so this is our current situation right now um this is a beautiful graphic I'll get out of the way of it um this is from um Alex Gray and this is the interpretation of the map's logo and how he described this um one hand releases a magical pill radiant with the potential of psychological and spiritual well-being one hand needing healing is outstretched reaching hopefully for Relief that can cure the soul and help cure a world of distress dress Souls the rainbow emanation of spheres relates to the Tibetan context of teal translated as an essential spark drop of P primordial potential the spark of life now this was his interpretation of the map's logo which you can see is over here and the reason that it's the hands are in front of the Psychedelic swirl in the background is to make the point that it's about therapy the treatment is not the drug as as I told you about the first situation with Marcela the the woman that I worked with in 1984 that MDMA can cause problems it's not inherently therapeutic if it's not contained in a therapeutic relationship so the the logo is a way for us to tell the story that what's most important is the human relationship and the therapeutic context and within that the Psychedelic can be helpful now this is something that I think speaks to uh the sense of urgency that we have this was kind of a shock for me to receive u a few months ago with this image of um the map's logo on a tombstone and the story um was about u a soldier from Denmark who had been in Afghanistan and that had gotten PTSD and when he came back he was suffering a lot from PTSD and he was able to find an underground therapist that gave him two MDMA sessions that helped him a lot to sort of come back to life but then his therapist felt that um he shouldn't do this any illegal thing anymore and in order to get um government support he had to give it up as well so he gave up he felt that he could no longer do the MDMA um and over time he got all these other treatments but his PTSD got worse and worse and worse and eventually he committed suicide and so then um Kim's mother on put the maps logo on the tombstone and so what that shows is that also it's not a you need followup you need after care it's not that you can have necessarily one or two MDMA sessions everything's fine you need to keep keep at it sometimes and so um this I think just points to the fact that there are um so many people that are suffering we need to go as fast as we can but not too fast we need to acknowledge the fears that there are and we need to move as carefully as we can as well um so what does our therapy look like the essence of the therapy is this uh Therapeutic Alliance and that's found in therapeutic research of all kinds is that the trust between the patient and the therapist is the most important factor to create a safe context for people to bring out things that are difficult for them and that's more important of a factor than what kind of therapy it is so the Therapeutic Alliance we emphasize building this empathic Rapport to support the participants healing process the second part is really key the direction of the session is sourced from the participants experience we all know that if we hurt our body and scratch it or or break something or something there's a healing return to wholeness uh energy in our body and that's below our level of conscious awareness and so the theory that we have the hypothesis is that there is an inner healing intelligence for the psyche as well and that there it's a return to wholeness but that there are things that are in the way sometimes pain is overwhelming trauma guilt shame as Eric was talking about but the idea is that this inner healing intelligence will bring to the surface what people most need to pay attention to at the most moment and it's not automatically that they go to the trauma they could go to a happy experience they could build strength from that but we support what's emerging and we support it whether it's emerging in the mind as a story in the body as a pain or energy or however it's manifesting itself and we support the expansion the expression and the release of it so it sometimes looks like you're going from a traditional Psych atric perspective sometimes you're going in the wrong direction you're not trying to suppress the symptoms you're trying to bring the symptoms to the surface so that then they can be fully experienced fully expressed understood resolved so we trust this patient process this inner healing intelligence and we support whatever is emerging and this we call it indirected therapy that everybody has this natural ability to heal and this intrinsic wi wisdom and so the treatment manual for those of you that are interested in learning about the therapeutic approach we don't tradem Market or anything like that it's up on the website maps.org treatment hyen manual and you can can see what the uh description of it is so this is a manualized therapy we have adherence Raiders that watch videotapes of the sessions give feedback to the participants uh manualized so that this was something that we could do research with we could standardize the approach and we have three basic elements of the training the first is this 100h hour process that is mostly um a little bit more online but we we've experimented during the pandemic with fully online where we had one was 300 people one was 500 people people from all over the world and our trainers really felt that the training was not good enough to do it that way that people weren't able to really fully ask their questions it was harder for them to pay attention were showing videotapes of therapy sessions and sometimes those are triggering for people and we couldn't tell when so we've gone now pretty much exclusively to uh in-person trainings that combines online with inperson we we will still experiment to see if we can do um an online training the second part is always going to be optional and this is an opportunity for therapists to volunteer to receive MDMA themselves in a therapy setting and we have had any number of therapists that have said that they had previously uh like Ben sesa when they were younger had taken MDMA and recreational settings but they say it feels like a different experience when they take it in a therapeutic setting like a different drug and so we've done surveys of the the therapists and they talk how important this is for them to be uh personally but also professionally for them to be sits so the average uh more or less 8 Hour session about half the time people's eyes are closed they're listening to music they're having this inner experience it's it's imaginative it's um this um you know it's hard for therapist sometimes to understand what's going on the the other half of the time people are talking to the therapists so we really want the therapist to understand from their own experience how much goes on after you've got MDMA when you're not even NE necessarily speaking to the therapists and so we want the therapist to be quiet empathic presence but not interfere too much so we will never make this uh mandatory we don't think that we should require anybody to do a drug this will always be optional and what that means is we don't think that therapists who've done MDMA are somehow or other better than all the therapists who've never done MDMA we just think that a therapist who has done MDMA is better and more effective than they themselves would be if they had never tried it and then the challenge with that is that it's again the most labor intensive part of it it's we're doing that on a individual session there is a potential to do um group therapy to expose a group of therapists but we're not wanting to do that initially because we're training people to work with individuals initially so we want them to be the uh patient in a sense in an individual setting and then the third part of it is that we will supervise therapists as they watch as they work with their first PTSD patient and we'll have our adherence Raiders watch the videotapes and give feedback and then if we feel that they need more attention we'll supervise them on their second patient but this this is our um program for treating therapists and we've had multiple multiple different cohorts here um Saro you've heard here uh give a um uh a good question about being on the petition um the the reason um there there's several reasons um you know we we've heard from via she said that uh you know in Brazil they've learned to fear the police um I've often felt that the police are the predators and I'm the prey um but what my um nephew is now a police officer my my sister's oldest child um and so the theme here and one of the core principles of maps is healing for all we really need to work with everyone and there there was one of the Israeli psychiatrist a traditional Israeli psychiatrist that we were going through the training program and um she um asked a question that that made us realize that we really had not fully explained what was um what was the potential of MDMA her question was she said oh I finally understand this is for the victims but not for the perpetrators and we're like no that's not it at all I mean it's sometimes harder to forgive yourself than it is to forgive somebody else so this is for for everyone and most perpetrators are also victims themselves at different times so even those labels are difficult so um it's been very important for me to try to move through my own fears and to reach out and so I felt that one of the most important things that we've been trying to do is to develop bipartisan support and to show that this is really for all when we talk about working potentially here in Iceland with the Minister of Justice with reducing recidivism we always say it should also be for the prison guards as well you know they're also particularly in America also traumatized so this is about healing for all and it's a very proud relationship that I've developed with Saro and Jer his chief who's also here um and so I think in terms of educating people what we're doing um the fact that Saro has been willing to not only go through the training but to to let his MDMA session uh be videotaped for use in how to change your mind was was a powerful symbol we're saying this is not just for you know hippies from the 60s this is really for for everybody and it's about healing for all now when we talk about the therapies we're really having to think about educating the Regulatory Agencies because this is new to them and the Regulatory Agencies regulate medicines but they don't regulate Psychotherapy and so when we started with this with the FDA um in their early stages um first it was MDMA and then a while later then it comes along psilocybin and so we had a sort of Head Start because we were focused All Along on drug development from the beginning of maps it was not academic research it was drug development and so when we got permission from FDA to go to phase three it was November 29th 2016 the FDA said yes we could go to phase three and then we negotiated 8 months to to be what the um design of the study would be what all of the other information they would want and the model that we proposed was it was a twers therapy team male female but it's not always it doesn't have to be that way but it we felt that it is the case that a lot of times people do have Trauma from childhood and the traditional model would be this male female team again doesn't always have to be we've had two female teams we've sometimes had two male teams um but it would be one where the first person is licensed to do therapy and the second person doesn't need a license they could be a student to get a license or they could be um someone who has a thousand hours Behavioral Health experience so we'd like to keep the two-person model but the important point is that there will be pressures economic pressures from insurance companies and National Healthcare and so we feel that if we can have the two-person model um where the second person is not a licensed therapist but the first person is that that might help us keep this two-person model for individual therapy and so the FDA said yes to that and they also said yes to this idea that the doctor needs to do initial screening and needs to be on call during the MDMA session but we don't need a doctor on site and so that's how we were approved to go into phase three with this model and we also then got permission from the FDA to give MDMA to therapists as part of their training and the way we did that was because we're training people for research it was four days where they would get either MDMA or Placebo in a double blind way and then a day of integration and then the third day would be the crossover and then the fourth day would be uh the integration from that day and so that was the model but we we wanted to make it less expensive and as we're training more people for other kinds of research um we thought we would drop the placebo in the day of integration and just do the MDMA in the day of integration after that with some prep and integration also so we went to the FDA and we said this is what we want to do and the FDA now after we had gotten permission to move to phase three they started working with the cilon people and they started realizing that this was coming psychedelic assist Psychotherapy was coming and they started getting nervous bureaucrats started getting nervous and they started saying to the COC cybin people well you need mdphd as the lead person and you need a doctor on site and they agreed to do that they were more focused on academic medical centers than we were we were more focused on where the therapists are actually working you know we we our operating principle was maximize therapeutic outcomes and we don't feel that that's necessarily always the case in a medicalized center and we don't think that MD phds are any better than licensed therapists so the psilocybon people started agreeing this because they were they would have doctors on site in these facilities and they were thinking more academic medicine so then when we went to do this protocol uh to change to make it easier to train more therapists with MDMA the FDA said no we'll never give you permission for uh doing this it's too risky to give to healthy volunteers like this and we want mdphd and we want a physician site and we went back to our phase three data and our Phase 2 data and we showed them look here's all the sites that had mdphd here's the sites that didn't there's no difference in efficacy here's the sites that had a doctor on site here's ones that had a doctor on call no difference in safety and the FDA kept rejecting our um arguments and what we realized from that is that the FDA Regulators they didn't necessarily object what we were doing they just didn't want to take responsibility for the decision and so there it was like an invitation to sue them and so we um hired um lawyers that are scientist lawyers that experts in what is called formal dis formal dispute regulation request for formal disputes and so formal dispute resolution requests so we ended up um spending over a quarter million dollars on lawyers in order to make the case and it went to the office of Neuroscience over the division of Psychiatry and so you know this was where we started out uh it doesn't pass the risk benefit the lead person needs to be mdphd and the physician needs to be on site so in the end we completely won on every single point and the office of Neuroscience did overrule the division and what we were told turned out to be the case that the division didn't uh wasn't upset with us that we had uh sort of called them to account for their superiors that I think they just as I said didn't want to make the decision and not only that this has helped us but this has helped the psilocybin people as well so now there doesn't need to be a mdphd as the lead for MDMA or for psilocybin and there doesn't need to be a doctor on site so this will uh I think these were poison pills for the entire field and so we've knocked those out so what that also means is that over time we will be able to train people who are not licensed therapists to work under supervision of a licensed therapist and if someone wants to be a student um you know to get a license they can work on sessions as well and kind of like an apprentice model um you've heard a lot of talk earlier today um and elsewhere about how the mystical experience is the depth of the mystical experience is related to therapeutic outcomes the deeper the mystical experience the the the greater the benefit that people get in the treatment of addiction in the loss of fear of anxiety about cancer diagnosis or life-threatening illnesses um we use the same mystical experience questionnaire in the MDMA research and um people don't score as high as they do on average with the classic psychedelics but they do score remarkably high on these measures but what we have identified is that there is no correlation between the depth of the mystical experience and therapeutic outcomes when it comes to MDMA assisted therapy for PTSD and so I think that's a really important distinction between the use of MDMA and the classic psychedelics and it also validates our treatment approach which is we're not trying to steer people to a mystical experience if that happens that's good there may be other benefits but what we're trying to do is just support whatever is emerging so I think this is a a key finding and these are from two different of our Phase 2 studies now what we're I'm about to share is the results of our phase three studies and these have taken place um starting um I said at 2016 we had the the meeting with FDA November 29th 2017 we negotiated um all of the designs that we need to do and then 2018 is when we started the first phase 3 study um and I'll tell you about our confirmatory study which we just released um some of the results last week so this is kind of one of the first public presentations about um our second uh phase three study now the first one we published here in nature medicine um the results were um pretty remarkable um we got a lot of PR we we feel that um the public opinion the public education is really essential um because it was the fear of the public about psychedelics that caused psychedelic research to be blocked all over the world for decades and so you can have all the science in the world but if the the general view is that these drugs are fearful that they're delusionary that they're dangerous then that will overwhelm the science a lot of times that will motivate the politicians overwhelm the science so public education is really key and bipartisan support is also essential and and so far we have managed to take psychedelic research to be one of the few things in America that is not caught in the culture wars and I think that we're going to continue to do that and a lot of that is because of the work with veterans the work with s with police officers this idea that this is for everybody um so we we really focus a lot on public education um uh sorry for this cut off but this is our U phase three design that um Eric showed as well it's three MDMA sessions um with 12 90minut non-drug psycho sessions as well and we um went to the FDA and we said my dissertation um was about um the FDA regulation of psychedelics and marijuana uh and one of the key issues is the double blind and I had thought that I had solved the double blind problem and what it was going to be was going to be therapy with full dose MDMA versus therapy with lowd dose MDMA so everybody would be told you'd get MDMA everybody's expectations are the same and the challenge was going to be to find the dose of MDMA the low dose that was high enough to cause confusion but not so high that you got all this therapeutic potential that would make it difficult for us to tell the difference between the groups and so as a result we studied zero inactive Placebo 25 milligram 30 milligram 40 Mig 50 milligram 75 milligram 100 125 and 150 as it turned out um as it often does in research that your hypotheses are wrong so luckily I got my PhD and then we realized I was wrong um but what what it turned out is that the low doses of MDMA when we added them to therapy they did cause a certain amount of confusion that that part was right but it's uh it made people uncomfortable the low doses so it's like turbulence in an airplane where you're just taking off you know it's a little bit difficult at the beginning and then if you get enough of a dose then it can be you get over the clouds and it's kind of smooth sailing so what we showed is in our Phase 2 studies that we did um you know for 16 years starting 2000 to 2016 that the people who got therapy without MDMA did better than the people who got therapy with lowd do MDMA so that it would be easier for us to tell a difference between the two groups if we used therapy with lowd dose MDMA versus therapy with full dose MDMA and so we went to the FDA and we said there is no solution to the double blind problem at least when it comes to MDMA because we also found that the effective dose of MDMA was lower than we thought a 75 milligram dose group was was very effective in one of our earlier studies with veterans firefighters and police officers so we said to the FDA we will let you tell us how to do this study um if you want us to give you a double blind we will and they said um they thought about it and and they said no it's more important that we make it harder for you to tell the difference between the two groups and there's another Advantage for using inactive Placebo which is that whatever safety problems come up in the control group we know are now due to the therapy in this patient population we can't say oh this is maybe due to the low dose of MDMA so we have a better comparison of safety and a harder task to show a difference by using therapy with inactive Placebo and so the FDA agre agreed with that and what they said is that in practice in research a lot of times um the double blind is a theory but it doesn't work in practice because the side effects from a lot of the drugs like ssris have a lot of side effects sexual side effects and mood side effects and so when people report their side effects a lot of the researchers can tell which group people are in so what the FDA said is there's two main ways to reduce experiment or bias when you don't really trust the double line to to be that effective and the first one is random assignment so what that means is that you know everybody is screened and enrolled they're all willing to go through either therapy with MDMA or therapy with inactive Placebo and then the other part is this here this uh independent Raiders what we need is um Raiders who are blind to the condition of whether the subject was in one group or the other and so we actually have a pool of independent ators who administer the Caps the clinician administered PTSD scale trained by the Veterans Administration that's where the Caps was initially developed there's over 20 of them and they do interrater reliability tests by watching a videotape of the therapy session to calibrate so the Raiders are all um similarly using the measures and then they're randomly assigned to whichever patient needs the next um assessment so the Raiders often only see each patient one time they they they don't track them through the study and they don't know which group they're in so that's the methodological um response to the challenge of the double blind and that's how we do these studies and so because we found that the low dose 75 milligrams worked much better than we thought the first session is going to be uh 80 mg um the reason we went from 75 um is just Financial it cost Millions ions of dollars to do different dose forms and all the stability so we use 80 and 120 milligram so we we just have 40 milligram capsules and 60 milligram capsules and we can mix and match and otherwise if we used 75 we would have had 37 A5 and 125 so the first session is 80 milligrams and then we believe that longer is better you you heard Ben talk about trying to develop a shorter acting MDMA that maybe that works better in the National Health Service or something and that's worth exploring but our view is once you get into this optimal zone of arousal the longer time that you're in it the better and so we intentionally two hours or so one and a half to two and a half hours after the initial dose we give half the initial dose to prolong the session intentionally to make it longer so that people can do more work and a lot of times people will come up against something that's kind of very painful and they'll be a little bit resistant and then they'll sort of push it away for a moment and then maybe an hour or two later it comes back and so we also find that as the drug is tapering off near the last 5 six 7 hour 8 hours time people do a lot of really important work so about 90 95% of the people opt for the supplemental dose so the first one is 80 milligrams then the second is a discussion between therapists and patients do they want to go up to 120 milligram followed by 60 and almost everybody does and then the same is true for the as well and then we wanted this to be uh the primary outcome measure we wanted it to be a long time after the MDMA session because we didn't want people to say oh you're you're testing them a week later and that's the Psychedelic Afterglow or you know that's not really durable so our primary outcome measure for approval is this two-month followup but that's that's to get it approved but that's not good enough for insurance companies because this is labor intensive so what we really need to to show is that it's durable and so we do um in our phase two we did a one-ear followup in phase three we're doing six months or longer followup to show whether it's durable or not so this is our approach um we negotiated with FDA we had to do two nine two 100 person studies um that's pretty small for um phase three and the reason it's that small is because we have a large effect size so that sometimes studies with ssris or drugs that have small effect size you have hundreds and hundreds and hundreds or thousands sometimes people in studies from statistical point of view the more people you have in the study the smaller of a difference you can get reliable statistics on so our case is terrific we have we had a very large effect size in our phase two so we're also able to do this with two 100 person phase three studies and in the um first study Co happened um near the end of it and we were able to we had had to stop and so we negotiated with FDA that the first study was 90 subjects and the second one was um 103 so um the veterans get the most media attention um but they're not the um most um people with PTSD most people with PTSD in America um are women from sexual abuse um or or something like that so you can see sexual assault sexual trauma about 2 are um women one3 are male but we do have a fair amount of veterans here um the terrible thing about America you know these shootings in schools it happens other countries sometimes as well so we have a range of PTSD one of the most important things that we found in phase two is that the therapy worked regardless of the cause of the trauma so the ssris work better in women than in men and they failed in combat related PTSD and we found that this worked regardless of the cause of uh the PTSD so that was really good for us because we could then enroll anybody and then if we do get this drug approved by the FDA then it will be approv for anybody but we also felt that in this initial studies that we need to work with the people that are suffering the most you know can it really help those people that are the most extreme with PTSD and so we enrolled people who have um chronic PTSD at least six months we had um onethird of them had PTSD in average of 20 or more years the average was 14 years what brings down the average was more of the veterans who had been more recently um traumatized in the war but we worked in um in people that have really been stuck the key thing is that many people who are traumatized were resilient most people will recover from ptd that's what Eric's uh slide showed as well that most people will recovered were resilient and if you have chronic PTSD defined at least 6 months then you're not likely to get better unless there's some intervention so the natural healing process is not going to be taking place in these these people and we unlike some PTSD studies we felt that we would enroll people who had previously attempted suicide if that had happened they couldn't be actively suicidal right at the moment to be enrolled but they could have had a history of suicide attempts or suicidal Behavior we showed over 90% had positive ideation for suicide over a third serious ideation and um a little bit less than a third and some about a third had positive behaviors and what that means is that you either actually attempted to to kill yourself or you went to a bridge and you you thought about jumping over but you jumping off but you didn't do it so again what we're trying to say is that we wanted to test the therapy against the people that are suffering the most and we also wanted to do the best for the patients not necessarily thinking about the economics of it that's why we have a two-person team that's why there's a three session model it's how do we maximize therapeutic outcomes how do we show what's the best that we can do um these are the results here um the thing that I'd like to show you here is if you look at this the distance between this group this is the therapy with Placebo this is therapy with MDMA and this is after the first session after the second session and after the third session so in this particular study the distance grew after each session so that it means there's a compounding effect of each additional MDMA session so we will never make this um for serious um severe PTSD um this is not a one session model so I think we one of the big mistakes of the' 60s was this idea that psychedelics are a miracle cure and you take one dose and now you're enlightened and everything's fine for the rest of your life and you don't have to do integration and you're smarter than everybody else and that was Timothy L's approach um but what we're showing here is that there's a cumulative effect of subsequent sessions and what we find is that a lot of the people go deeper on the second session than on the first the first you're building the Therapeutic Alliance you're getting to know your own self under the influence of MDMA you're learning what it does you're learning that you can release your emotions like the video that Eric showed of the fellow crying under the LSD therapy that that you're learning how to manage this situation and so people tend to go deeper on the second session and some people um need more as well so there's a statistical method called effect size which is designed to compare different treatments and different studies against each other even if they're not direct head-to-head comparisons and so an effect size of one means it's one standard deviation from the norm and so the FDA will approve drugs with a small effect size in here. 2.3 point4 now you also have to have two successful phase three studies to apply to the FDA to get your drug evaluated and Pharma companies can do as many phase three studies as they want they just have to have two successful ones and in the past Pharma companies would never publish the results from their failed phase three studies and that's why we have clinical trials.gov right now where Pharma companies have to put up on the web every study that they're going to do so you can see the percentage of failed studies versus the percentage of successful studies and so um zolof succeeded in two but you can see small effect size pel failed here but had two successful here um but then our first study was was really a large effect size and there's two different ways to think about effect size and the the classic way is called PBO subtracted you subtract the results from your test group from the placebo group but in our case the placebo is therapy and the therapy is actually quite effective so when we're subtracting the placebo group we're subtracting out the therapy we're leaving just the effect of the MDMA and so that's still .9 one that's a really remarkable effect size but when we look within subjects to the people that get therapy plus MDMA it's a 2.1 effect size remarkable so this is um good evidence we we have not done uh direct head-to-head comparisons uh we don't think that that's necessary um and the it does not require by the FDA but this gives us a sense that this is likely to be um the most effective of these other condition itions plus of those people that were in our study almost all of them have been through medications and been through other kind of psychotherapies um we also look at depression um 91% of the people in our studies that have PTSD also have depression Not Unusual um we have not yet studied depression without PTSD that might be kind of a different sort of depression so whether how well it works maybe there's a biological component to that or something like that so we we can't say that yet that this is good for depression but it's it's it reduces uh depression in people that have PTSD again like this and then also functional impairment and I think this is really key for what the patients are looking for they want to get back to life they want to get back to work they want to be able to leave their homes they want to do all sorts of things and without being triggered by their PTSD so we show uh sub substantial and dramatic uh increases in uh functional decreases in functional impairment increases in functional there okay now um I skipped over a slide before just to say this that um that our statistical significance so you have to have 0.05 which means a nickel out of a dollar it means one in 20 chance that it's uh random it has to be 0.05 or less statistics so that uh you know that it's not a random finding and what we had was 0.1 which was one in 10,000 chance that our study was random our results were random in the first study and so the results that we had were really remarkable in that 32% of the people that got the therapy without with inactive Placebo at the two-month followup no longer qualified for a diagnosis of PTSD so that's really good and that what we're doing is we're trying to show that the therapists themselves are actually um they can tell almost all the time not all the time around 10% of the time there's a little bit of confusion did somebody really get the MDMA or not so it's not completely transparent but the therapists are trying as hard as they can whether people get MDMA or not and what we see is that 32% no longer have PTSD at the two-month followup in the therapy with placebo group but 67% more than twice is many um with the MDMA and then another 21% had what called clinically significant reductions of PTSD symptoms that means that their life has been changed they have lower symptoms they still have PTSD but they're able to function better and then over time they might get better on their own or if they could have had a fourth session um so we had 88% responders 12% non-responders so the important thing to say is it doesn't work for everybody it's not a miracle cure there were 12% of the people that were in our study that did not respond um now in phase two where we had um combined those people that had um MDMA with inao Placebo or MDMA with lowd do MDMA trying to find if it would worked for a double blind we had 23% um no longer had PTSD at the two-month follow-up at the um the group that had MDMA plus uh therapy 54% and here was the one-year followup and this is what we're really waiting for here but the one-year follow-up showed that people get better over time not only is it durable but we have taught people how to process trauma that you don't need to run away from your memories that you can work with these memories you can let out your feelings you don't have to be overwhelmed and people get better on their own now it doesn't mean that this is only due to the MDMA people have gone back to therapy some have gone back to medication some have done various different kinds of things but the net result is that in our Phase 2 studies people continued to get better after the therapy was over and that's really important we're really trying to help people understand that they are the agent of their Improvement that they have the capacity to heal themselves that we're not doing it to them they are doing it themselves with the aid of the therapy with the aid of the MDMA but they can continue to do that on their own and so um in the next couple months we will get the one-ear follow-up data or the six-month or longer follow-up data from our first phase three study so that's still unavailable but we're eagerly looking forward to it now this is a remarkable um Slide the one of the strategies when people are traumatized is to dissociate it's like you're not there you know that that this is happening to your body but it's not happening to you but that's because it's so pain painful what's happening and so when you do this dissociation when you come back to it then it's even more uh difficult and so the dissociative subtype are those people that are high on this removed from their own experience removed from their own emotions and so what we showed here is that um the people on the dissociative subtype actually um had more of a decline from the PTSD than than the average from everybody else so so this works best in the hardest cases and I think what that means is that these people are so hungry to be connected they're so in need of somehow or other connecting to their own experience that once that happens they make rapid progress so this was really a remarkable finding as well um now there were no sight effects we had 15 sites two in Israel two in Canada 11 in the United States so one of the big concerns of the FDA would be is what if these are highly trained psychedelic therapists that they've been involved in the Psychedelic Community for you know 20 30 years is this something that we can train new therapists about or is this only really restricted to highly uh trained people that have had loads of their own psychedelic experiences and all of that and so the way the FDA looks at this is they look at all the different sites are you getting most of your data from one site and these are the best people and the other people are contributing you know smaller amounts of subjects so in in order to overcome that objection we took our most experienced therapist team Michael and Annie mofer we took them out of phase three and they realized that they were also getting older that they needed to move more to train the next generation of therapists so when we did this statistical uh evaluation to see whether there were any sight to sight effects there were none so what that means is that it's not the most experienced people driving the outcomes it speaks to the quality of the training program and it speaks to the therapeutic potential of MDMA so this is what gives us hope that we we want to train 25,000 therapists in this next uh decade and I think that we can transmit the knowledge of our core trainers to a wider group of therapists and this is one of the the reasons why I think because there were no sight to sight effects um now none of this uh great news that I just gave you would mean a lot if there was a terrible safety profile so we have to look at the safety so we have a series of nonserious transient treatment emergent reported Adverse Events muscle tightness decreased appetite all of these are more in the MDMA group than in the placebo group but they're shortlived they're transient they're not that serious and you know as Ben pointed out um in this morning we don't see this low mood either in in these subjects uh but these are the the very acute um side effects so there's there's a bunch but they're easily managed um now what about more important side effects um so um with this serious ideation we actually had more in the placebo group than in the MDMA group and we actually had a sad situation of one of woman in the placebo group tried to kill herself twice during the study and fortunately did not succeed and another woman had such severe suicidal ideation that she decided to check herself into a hospital to not cause self harm and both of these women were in the placebo group now that was something that because we had no MDMA in the placebo group it was you know therapy without with inactive Placebo we could say that this is due to the Baseline the background of having serious severe PTSD and going through therapy and bringing things to the surface the other part and this is kind of an ethical issue that I will um uh blame on the FDA a little bit in phase two after each subject completed the twomon um followup we uncovered the blind on an individual basis and then those people could then go through the study again with MDMA but for phase three the FDA said no we want to you know preserve the illusion of the double blind and make it look right so we will only let you uncover the blind one time at the end of the study and the study could take years to complete and only then will the people that are in the placebo group can go through it again with therapy with real MDMA so I think that these two people that um had um these this one woman in particular that tried to kill herself twice that that she was in despair she realized that she was in the placebo group and she didn't think she could wait as long as she needed to to get into the crossover study so I think the FDA you know there were some ethical issues that I we were unable to persuade the FDA about that particular design so um with u adverse uh special injes a little bit more Suicidal Thoughts in the placebo group we had no cardiovascular problems and no abuse potential so we don't have any reports of people going um becoming uh ecstasy addicts or whatever like that after the study now MDMA only stays in your blood a couple days it's not like marijuana that you can test it for a week a month or so so we don't do blood tests this is self-report um but in all the concern here um okay I see we're overtime so I will try to go a bit faster um science declared our study the um top 10 scientific breakthroughs of the year it was it was phenomenal um yeah and I I think it was both because of our great results but also um it's because it's the Forerunner of all the work with Sil cybin and and other psychedelics as well so while we got the award it's really the award I think for psychedelic assisted Psychotherapy um now this is a very important um project proposed these are two different studies that we've combined the data but the Veterans Administration did a study that um was with over 900 people and they compared two different psychotherapies um one of them is called the prolonged exposure and the other is this one here and the other is cognitive uh processing therapy and so that that took them multiple years to do this study and so what what we see is that their group started um a little bit lower with PTSD symptoms and our group had more PTSD symptoms a little bit um but in the end What U happened is that our results were the best of all but that's not really the most important point the most important point is the Dropout rates so that the prolonged exposure in cognitive processing therapy about half the people dropped out of the study because it was too difficult for them to confront their trauma without any kind of pharmacological Aid and so this is really key that we had a 6.5% dropout rate and even in the placebo group it was only 10% because they knew that they could eventually get MDMA so I know I know I have to erace now um but um so this is the results of our second phase three study so this is the big news um U that it well let me go back um it was successful okay it confirmed the prior now um now I I can't tell you the exact results because we're kind of holding them off so that we can make sure we get it um published in a scientific paper but I can say that it was similar to the results of our first study and fortunately in the second study we had nobody have a um no no one tried to attempt to suicide in either group at all so now we have two successful phase three studies and the next step is um to give give you a sense of what our timetable is um okay um just to show you the timetable is we hope that um we're now done we're going to um submit to uh Q3 here we submit everything to the FDA takes us a bunch of time to do that and we think FDA approval is going to be here uh Q2 of 2024 we think uh DEA has 90 days to reschedule and um states have to reschedule as well half the US states automatically do it the other half have various mechanisms we're working there and then the launch will be Q4 and then one year later is where we reach sustainability so that's where we're at right now and I think um I will um well uh let me show one more thing s sorry here but this this is important because I want to talk about how we're thinking this should become a medicine and so as I've said before and I've I've tried to emphasize multiple times that it's therapy it is therapy it's not the Psychedelic it's the therapy that the Psychedelic makes more effective so what we're wanting to say to the FDA is that once this becomes approved the only people that can give it actually to patients are going to be therapist that have been through the training program where they've learned the therapeutic method that we've used in phase three studies so we want it to be prescribed only by prescribers that get special training they only need two to four hours of training just for the medical complications the increase in blood pressure that's the main thing and certain other exclusion criteria then the uh therapists have to go through training now we don't want to be the only one that trains it what we want is schools of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy to offer this training to their students this should become standard and they should be trained not just MDMA but they should be cross trained with ketamine with psilocybin with all the psychedelics so we want to bring forth psychedelic um TR and that's why it's a public benefit Corporation we're not just trying to sell MDMA to people we want to make it to be psychedelic Psychotherapy and we want to empower the therapist to be able to to do that but there's other therapeutic methods than ours also there's prolonged exposure there's kind we are funding studies now to combine MDMA with cognitive behavioral therapy cognitive behavioral conjoint therapy which is um couples where one person has ptcd at fects the relationship we're funding MDMA with other therapeutic modalities so once somebody has been through our training program or a training program that we authorize then post approval we want them to be able to design a customized treatment and use whatever other tools they want to use we're not going to do the adherence ratings post approval and so um and then we'll figure out how we're going to are we going to supply this directly to the healthc care providers are we going to provide it to the patients um but this is the negotiations called Rems risk evaluation mitigation strategies so that's uh we're also going to Europe uh and if we get EMA and FDA approval we can get it approved all over the world and the biggest goal for us and this I'll be done is just to say that um we want a world of Net Zero trauma by 2070 so for a long time our our goal was just how do we get this as a medicine now it looks like we have a very good chance to make MDMA into a medicine so now we're thinking we need Mass mental health we need a spiritualized Humanity we want to try to make it so that I think over the next 20 or 30 years it's going to be harder for Humanity there's estimated uh 1 billion climate refugees by 2050 potentially we want to work in prisons we want to do stuff with the Minister of Justice here and we want to have a um spiritualized Humanity Mass mental health and Net Zero trauma by 2070 thank thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: kDRIKpk3I20 (https://youtu.be/kDRIKpk3I20) ===

In just nine minutes, discover the most powerful insights from Joe Rogan's explosive talk with psychedelic pioneer Rick Doblin. From how therapy may need illegal drugs to why veterans are being denied a life-saving cure and the shocking truth that the DEA's first move was illegal, this video breaks down 10 takeaways on MDMA therapy, MAPS, drug laws, trauma, and the future of mental health. Takeaway one, psychedelics can transform mental health care. Psychedelic therapy, especially using MDMA, is proving to be a powerful new way to treat mental health issues like post-traumatic stress disorder. Rick Doblin, who has spent over 40 years researching this, explains how MDMA helps reduce fear in the brain, making it easier for people to revisit painful memories without being overwhelmed. Instead of numbing the pain like anti-depressants do, MDMA opens up a safe emotional space where people can finally talk through their trauma. According to Doblin, twothirds of the people with severe PTSD no longer qualified as having PTSD after just three sessions with MDMA plus therapy. For example, in recent studies, even veterans with decades of unresolved trauma showed major improvements after only a few months of treatment. Now, let's move to the next takeaway. Takeaway two, therapy matters more than the drug alone. MDMA itself isn't a cure. It's the therapy that happens during and after the MDMA experience that drives the real change. Doin emphasizes that psychedelics work best when taken in a guided setting with trained professionals, not just for recreational use. He explains how patients go through preparation sessions followed by the MDMA experience and then multiple sessions to help process what came up. This full process is what leads to long-term healing. For example, in some ketamine clinics that skip the therapy and just give the drug, people may feel temporary relief but don't actually deal with the root of their problems. That's why integration therapy is essential. Now, let's move to the next takeaway. Takeaway three. MAPS is leading psychedelic research. The Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies, better known as MAPS, was founded in 1986 by Rick Doblin. It is a nonprofit that has spent decades fighting to bring psychedelic assisted therapy into mainstream medicine. MAPS runs clinical trials, trains therapists, and works with governments to make MDMA a legal treatment. It's not a company that wants to make billions from patents, but a mission-driven group that wants MDMA to become a generic drug so it stays affordable. For example, MAP supported a public benefit corporation called Lycos Therapeutics to handle the drug development part while continuing its nonprofit mission separately. Now, let's move to the next takeaway. Takeaway four, the war on drugs caused real damage. Doin points out that the criminalization of MDMA in 1985 wasn't based on solid science, but was more about political fear during the Reagan era drug panic. He says the first people arrested for MDMA had their charges dropped because the DEA didn't even have the legal authority to ban it. Still, the damage was done. Research was shut down, therapists were raided, and people who could have been helped were left to suffer. If MDMA hadn't been made illegal, Dolin says we could have saved thousands of lives, especially among veterans. For example, one tragic result is that veteran suicide rates have stayed high while potential therapies remain locked away due to bad laws. Now, let's move to the next takeaway. Takeaway five. Political support for psychedelics is growing. Even conservative leaders are starting to change their views on psychedelics. Former Texas Governor Rick Perry, a Republican, is now a vocal supporter of Ibeane Research, another powerful psychedelic. This shift happened after he heard about dramatic healing stories from veterans like Congressman Morgan Latrell, who suffered from severe trauma and found real recovery through psychedelic therapy. Doblin explains that psychedelics have found rare bipartisan support in Washington because the evidence is so strong and the suffering is so real. For example, Congress recently gave $10 million to fund MDMA therapy research for active duty soldiers through the Department of Defense. We're halfway through the video. Thanks for sticking with us. If you're enjoying it, hit the thumbs up and share it in your WhatsApp groups. If you'd like to support us, please tap the thanks button below. It helps us keep making great content. Drop a comment and don't forget to hit subscribe for more. Now, let's continue with the video. Takeaway six, psychedelics can help with end of life anxiety. One of the lesserk known uses of psychedelics is helping people who are dying deal with fear, sadness, and unresolved emotions. Doin talks about how MDMA and psilocybin have been used in studies with terminal cancer patients. These people often feel trapped by anxiety and depression, and psychedelics have helped them come to peace with the idea of death. He explains that these treatments don't just help the patient, but also their loved ones. For example, a study at Sunstone Therapy Center gave MDMA to both the cancer patient and their partner, leading to deep emotional healing for both. Now, let's move to the next takeaway. Takeaway seven, group therapy could make treatments cheaper. One of the challenges of psychedelic therapy is the cost. A full course of MDMA assisted therapy includes dozens of hours with two trained therapists, which is expensive. Doblin shares how new studies are testing group therapy models to lower the cost and reach more people. In some trials, people get individual sessions first and then go through MDMA experiences in a group setting. They then meet together to share and process what happened. For example, in Ukraine and Israel, where trauma is widespread, researchers are testing this model to support war survivors with limited resources. Now, let's move to the next takeaway. Takeaway eight, personal stories shape public acceptance. Doblin's own journey helps explain why he's so committed to this cause. He first tried LSD when he was 17 and said it felt like the right of passage he never got from his bar mitzvah. He wanted to understand himself and the world better and psychedelics gave him that chance. He also talks about the emotional power of visiting a cemetery in Ukraine, seeing the graves of young people killed in war, and realizing that healing their families might start with these treatments. For example, he's now working on starting psychedelic therapy programs in places like Lebanon and Ukraine, where trauma is overwhelming and few tools exist to treat it. Now, let's move to the next takeaway. Takeaway nine, prohibition creates more harm than good. The drug war has failed not just by blocking healing treatments, but by pushing people into dangerous situations. Doblin and Rogan talk about how criminalizing substances like marijuana or MDMA actually pushes them into black markets controlled by cartels. They point out how legal alcohol causes more damage than most illegal drugs, but is still socially accepted. Doblin explains how people who need help are often afraid to seek treatment because they fear being arrested or losing their kids. For example, pregnant women addicted to drugs often avoid hospitals because they worry their babies will be taken away, which leads to worse outcomes for both mother and child. Now, let's move to the last takeaway. Takeaway 10. Psychedelics can reshape society's outlook. At the end of the podcast, the conversation turns toward the bigger picture. Doblin and Rogan both believe that psychedelics could help shift society toward more empathy, understanding, and self-awareness. These substances are not just about fixing mental illness, but can also help everyday people gain new perspective on life, relationships, and purpose. Rogan says, "Everyone needs a little help. I'm not saying you're coming back from Afghanistan, but everyone could use a little pickme up, a fresh perspective." For example, in Europe, cultures that introduce young people to wine in responsible ways have far fewer problems with alcohol than the United States, which treats it as something forbidden. The same principle could apply to psychedelics if done responsibly. Here is a brief introduction about Rick Doblin. Rick Doblin is the founder and president of the multiddisciplinary association for psychedelic studies known as MAPS, a nonprofit organization working to make psychedelic assisted therapy legally available. He holds a PhD in public policy and has spent over four decades advocating for the scientific and medical use of substances like MDMA to treat trauma and mental illness. Thank you for watching. If you'd like to support this channel, hit the thanks button below. It really helps us keep going. If you enjoyed this summary, please leave a like and share it in your WhatsApp groups. To join discussion about this video, drop a comment below. And for more videos like this, hit the subscribe button below.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: v1PVU-47csQ (https://youtu.be/v1PVU-47csQ) ===

My name is Bruce Sewick. I think most of you know me. Uh, and I I got I call this from psilocybin to MDMA. This is kind of like the journey that started with some of the original research from from back in the day some decades ago. And this is uh this is a video about the Good Friday uh research. Anybody familiar with that? Where they gave uh 20 divinity students, they gave 10 psilocybin and 10 nasin. And this was kind of back before everything went ary. So I think it's a nice perspective because we're on we're in phase three was approved for MDMA uh studies. So phase three is multi-sight, hundreds of people, lots of money that has to be raised, but we're on the kind of the precipice of where the whole thing went off the track. So I think the video, the movie will give you a little perspective of where it started. And then I'm going to talk about using MDMA as an adjunct to uh uh treat PTSD as an adjunct to psychotherapy. So [Music] enjoy and what I recall is that there was a notice posted on a bulletin board at Andover Newton regarding an experiment that was going to be conducted by Dr. for Walter Panky who was a PhD student at Harvard. The experiment took place in the Boston University Chapel and it was on mysticism and it involve taking a psychoactive chemical psilocybin. It's the active ingredient in what's called sacred mushrooms. Experimental mysticism. That was Walter Panky. Experimental mysticism. It's kind of nutty, you know. He had an MD. He was a doctorate candidate, doctor of divinity of the Harvard Divinity School. He proposed a medically supervised, double-blind, scientifically controlled, up-to-date experiment on the production of religious ecstasy. His assumption was that this drug would heighten one's ability to have a mystical experience. Some of the volunteers received an active placebo. others of the volunteers actually got a substantial dose of psilocybin. You know, none of us knew what we were going to receive and I'm sure there was high anticipation and and hope that we would receive the actual psilocybin. So, the Good Friday experiment was absolutely groundbreaking and then we had the psychedelic 60s. Among these drugs, the hallucinogens are included psilocybin extracted from a variety of Mexican mushroom. The time has come to stop the sale of slavery to the young. Turn on, tune in, and drop out. There was a major surge from the Coast Guard. Nothing ever showed up. No, you know, no body, no pieces of equipment were ever found. He just disappeared in the Atlantic. Some people thought that he may have staged it because they didn't find his body. It'll always remain a mystery as just what did take him. But there was this whole sense that this was a black mark on the history of Harvard. Here was this pivotal study that was so suppressed. The Good Friday experiment was a wakeup call to the [Music] West. So that was 55 years ago. And uh we're we're on the verge of uh of of another of a the renaissance of psychedelics. Uh I had uh the honor of meeting Ramdas uh was known as Richard Alport. My wife and I went to see him at the Infinity Foundation. They gave him they gave him an award because he he started out in psychedelics and ended up a religious holy man. You know, Ramdust means the voice of God. And so he he has a fasia from his strokes that he had. So his talking is better now in this movie. But when we saw him, it was very deliberate and it took a long time from N for him to make his presentation and when it was over supposed to be a Q&A period and they really only had time for one question. So I jumped up and they called me and and I said to him kind of in code. I says, "What is the future of enthogens?" which is kind of the new not so new word for psychedelic but means the god within. It's the ritualistic spiritual use of psychedelics uh in in that kind of context. And he kind of sat back in his wheelchair and he said and I'll never forget it just sends chills down my spine. He says my life is a vindication of the mushroom. And that's all he said. And I thought boy isn't that the truth. So here we are again. Now, back in the 60s, we didn't have the context to to put this in because this was new. You know, we didn't know um well, most of us didn't know uh of the history that preceded uh the early part of the psychedelic introduction into into the country, but we certainly have that context now. And we use the word enthogens to to denote the spiritual as I said kind of ritualistic use of that. And now it's being seen for what it was back originally in the 50s and the 60s before it got out on the street is it's being seen as medicine. So here we are. If if everything proceeds, probably the first thing that will happen is in 2021 MDMA will be approved for use in treating PTSD in a clinic, never over the counter. So I I want to talk about this and and uh wanted to have this on the verge of this happening. So, this is a this is a quote that I think kind of encapsulates what it feels like from the perspective of somebody that suffered uh with PTSD. Before I began treatment in the study, I lived in a constant state of fear and was unable to work. This sense of fear had been my everyday reality since I was three years old when my childhood abuse began. Before finding maps, I attended weekly therapy for almost 15 years and was on a cocktail of medications prescribed by my psychiatrist. Despite all this, I still wanted to die. My doctors talked about symptom management, but never about deeper healing. My 15 years of conventional mental health treatment were like piling gauze on an open wound. My wound, the trauma, was too tender to examine. Every time I bumped into a trigger that caused my old wounds to open, we would just add more medication to try and stop the bleeding. However, MDMA assisted psychotherapy allowed me to feel safe enough to examine the wound and extract the debris so it could heal. It was a difficult process, but I've been able to heal my PTSD in this way. The chemicals that MDMA helped my brain release showed me what love and connection to myself and others felt like. So just a kind of a little perspective uh from uh somebody who has had this uh experience and compared it to what she had to go through. So I want to talk about I'm putting the psychedelics into two buckets talking about the classical hallucinogens psilocybin LSD musculine and DMT. These affect the serotonin system uh in brain areas mostly related to mental functioning. uh it affects the thinking part of the brain, the lyic system, the emotional part of the brain and also the visual and auditory cortices which gives you the circus of what uh of of what the visual and auditory portion of the trip is. Yes. What's DMT? DMT is dimethylryptamine. It's produced actually it's produced in the body and is very prevalent in nature. And so a friend of mine Thank thanks for asking that. friend of mine asked or a friend of mine who is the chemist schedule one chemist who made the psilocybin for the research at the univers University of Wisconsin he feels that he's proven that it's a neurotransmitter and if in fact it's true I didn't understand his presentation because it's way over my head uh that means something you know so we so DMT exists inside your body so you actually have a schedule one substance inside your body so um it's it's the active ingredient in Iawaska which is you know you hear about the Iawaska tourism now is very rampant and people like myself are concerned that we don't that what happened in the 60s doesn't happen again I don't want any tragedies you know this needs to be used very respectfully um I I get the calls I go out occasionally when people are having bad trips and I try to help them integrate that I have some other people working with me a psychiatrist another psychologist and we don't want this thing to go off the tracks and it did uh and you know it's everybody nobody has taken uh psychedelics with the subjects like Timothy Liry did you know he got a little carried away there so um anyway so um this is a little description of uh of the uh classical psychedelic hallucinagens that I talked about uh you think differently and many times things that normally seem important like money material things seem unimportant. So this was the problem in the 60s. Uh and this became associated with the anti-war movement and the subsequent war on drugs, you know, thanks to Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan. Uh taking a low dose will make colors more vibrant. Nature looks beautiful. Music is great and people it makes you know makes everybody feel real good. This is for a low dose. Medium dose close and open eye visuals uh more philosophical thought. So as the dose increases the depth of the experience also increases. Uh taking a high dose will cause objects to take on living characteristics cause more intense closed and openeyed visuals and a deeper understanding of things causing a feeling of one with the universe which is not a bad thing I think. So uh MDMMA falls into the category of uh an impathogen or an intact. It's it's a very tactile uh it promotes tactile sensitivity and very uh empa you know empathetic response. So it causes um neurons to release serotonin and dopamine. The caveat here is too much serotonin can be toxic. Uh there's a condition called serotoninergic toxicity. One of our clients recently had it. It was the first time I've come across that. Uh she was going down in one serotonin SSRI and coming up on another and ended up with too much of it in her system and ended up in the hospital uh feeling very sick. Uh so you have to be very careful with that. Uh so this enhances the desire to socialize uh and and uh gives feelings of empathy which are thought to be related to the oxy oxytocin levels. So the the MDMMA story starts actually in 1914 uh where the pharmaceutical company Merc was doing some research with M on MDMA as a precursor to a drug they hope would control bleeding. Uh a patent was granted in 1914 and then not much happened. But in the early 50s, the army and the military were very interested in psychedelics as mind control uh drugs uh to be used for possible interrogation. There's been some every so often I see a blurb on maybe things like this being used to this day because if you want to uh make somebody very uncomfortable, you give them a very high dose of a psychedelic uh and you don't, you know, if you don't tell them what they're on and what they're going to experience, it'd be be very upsetting to them. So 1965, Alexander Schuljin uh no known as Sasha Schuljin to the psychedelic community uh he was a Dao chemist and while he was working at at uh DA the DAO chemical company he was uh synthesizing and writing cookbooks on psychedelics. So he came across and synthesized MDMA, tried it and he felt marvelous feelings of solid inner strength and then he introduced it to Leo Zeff uh who called MDMA uh penicellin for the soul. So this became a very popular tool for the therapists uh and was used in uh coup's therapy for uh 10 years very successfully because you can imagine the feeling of empathy and love and this unconditional love that is generated by this chemical uh and you're sitting across from your partner you know looking at them with very different eyes maybe for the first time. So had tremendous success in couples therapy and then of course it ended up on a street uh in 1984. Michael Kle, a seminary student, introduced it to the public and all hell broke loose. So the DEA announced that it was going to put it in schedule one. All the scientists and therapists had been using this successfully to treat people uh with you know psychological and emotional problems challenged it uh which resulted in it being placed in schedule three. The DEA of course condemned the decision put it back into schedule one. Uh they didn't give up the fight. A couple years later in 1988 uh everyone resurfaced with motions and hearings to again have this rescheduled. So they removed it from schedule one temporarily and then the DEA came back on March 23rd and decided that the science was wrong. The doctors, the therapists were all wrong and they permanently placed MDMMA into schedule one where it remains to to this day. Now the interesting thing will be when uh when this becomes as this research continues, what is a DEA going to do? The thought would be you would have to reschedu it. you know, you can't leave it in a in a schedule one category because as you're doing research in phase three, it c can also be off offered to the uh general populace uh in certain conditions. And then in 2003, a bill which came to be known as the RAVE Act was tacked on to the Amber Alert Bill, which is often how legislation gets passed. And this was based on uh and very impacted by faulty research by George Ricarde who did uh that if you recall back in the early 2000s the conversation that taking even one uh casual dose of MDMA can put holes in your brain. So caused a big uproar. uh the bill was passed and then after the uh bill was passed it was found out that the monkeys had not been given MDMA they had actually been given methamphetamine. So here you had very faulty research that was disproven and everyone was very upset about it. There was an article in the uh Chronicle of Higher Education on it and uh Ricard's uh retort was that he doesn't check the bottles. So here you have very bad research on methamphetamine uh and very bad misinformation uh but nothing is nothing has happened uh and the ray act still holds. So with Ricarde dis disgraced then uh maps the multiddisciplinary association for psychedelic studies who provide the seed money for uh research primarily on MDMA and other uh substances was granted uh by the institutional review board approval for human research in 2003. So that was 14 years ago. So what does MDMA feel like? feelings of extreme joy and contentedness with feelings of empathy and good feelings coupled with waves of euphoria and happiness rushing through your body like a pulsating internal energy. It's also a great sensory enhancer. So tactile senses, the sense of touch is greatly enhanced. So when you compare the classical psychedelics to intactens uh with the classical psychedelics you have this visual and effective ampl amplification of of psychic processes. So this includes fear too. So when when I first learned about psychedelics I was an undergraduate in psychology in the early 70s and my uh introduction to psychology textbook had it in there was legal psychedelic psycholytic therapy. We we called it an unspecific amplifier of your mental state. This that's why set and setting is so important. Most of the stories that I hear that I've gotten involved with of people that have randomly been uh you know in the wrong place at the wrong time were people taking uh these uh this these substances at a bad time of their life. Uh and it just made that feeling worse. So this you know you have to be very careful about it and that's why the way we see this rolling out will be under supervision until you return to baseline. Uh the average duration for the classical psychedelics are 6 to 11 hours uh sometimes even longer but just on average versus the intactens which has just the opposite. It's a marked decrease of in interpersonal and intracychic fear and also a feeling of increased socialization uh and empathy and it lasts for four to six hours and from a cost standpoint that makes it a little bit more manageable. Um so you could see the difference here uh in in what it facilitates uh as we go on. So let's talk about PTSD symptoms. Basically, you're dealing with the amygdala, which is which is, you know, part of that primitive brain that is involved in survival. So, you have the exaggerated and uncontrolled responses of, you know, by the amygdala to traumatic specific cues and then the thinking part of the brain, the hypocamp, the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex are unable to bring the amygdala under control. So, it's it's basically fight or flight uh and not a very pleasant feeling. uh as I said the amygdala which is uh right here uh is activated sets off a fight orflight survival response the thinking part of the brain is unable to bring it uh under control so basically what happens here is thinking analyzing and sometimes language uh organizing memory into time and space uh is doesn't happen there is a state of hyperarousal hypervigilance uh anxiety sleep disturbance You have intrusive memories. You have the the proverbial flashbacks that everyone is so concerned about which is just basically just so you know flashbacks are unprocessed psychological material. Everybody has flashbacks. I'm sure you have flashbacks from your childhood. Something reminds you of something. So it's not a bad thing. Uh also there's an emotional numbness that comes with uh PTSD and then sometimes disassociative symptoms. So people tend to disassociate because that was how they were able to survive the trauma. When I work with people that have been traumatized, the only way they could survive that is to assume kind of a disassociative state from from from that memory. Uh and that's actually one of the theories of what causes multiple personalities, disassociative identity disorder, because you end up kind of splitting your person uh in order to survive the trauma. So, but if you're a therapist and they're emotionally un unavailable, then you're you don't you don't have anything going and that's the problem. So, PTSD victims are unable to fully leave the past or engage in the present. Very very uh tragic. So, what is conventional treatment? Conventional treatment, the prescription drugs that are given basically suppressed the symptoms. It doesn't help you process it. it suppresses the symptoms. Okay. So that you don't feel that discomfort. Uh and then the psychotherapies that are involved are basically exposure therapy which I think personally as somebody that does it for a living I think that's a terrible thing to expose people to that which they're traumatized by. Why would you ask them what it felt like to be raped? Why would you go back there and talk about their friend being killed on the battlefield? So basically I see that as suppression and retraumatization. Um, and you know, it it to me it doesn't it doesn't it doesn't cure anything. It doesn't process anything. You're still stuck with this trapped in your body. MDMMA assisted psychotherapy combines both uh biology and psychotherapy. It catalyzes the therapeutic process, kind of speeds it up. Uh it's and it's only administered a few times. I mean, I'm doing I do grand round presentations at hospitals and now the questions are starting to be really good questions. People say, "Well, won't people get addicted to it?" We're talking about because everyone's considering it in in the pharmaceutical con uh content of something you take every day, but this is not something you take every day. Something you might take only a few times in your life, maybe with some booster sessions later. So, it's it's not that sort of medicine. And most of the psychedelics that I can think of off the top of my head fall in that category. These experiences are powerful experiences. This isn't something you take every day. It's not like taking an aspirin for a headache. So, uh, it and the thing the researchers emphasize to me to emphasize to everybody, this is pure pharmaceutical MDMA. It's not Molly. It's not ecstasy. It's not what you get on the street. This is made by a schedule somebody that has a schedule one license and is pure pharmaceutical MDMA. So what you have here is a processing and healing uh as opposed to suppression and retraumatization. So what are some of the key elements of MDMA assisted therapy? Uh it's a nondirective approach. So basically the work is being done by the participant. uh the the participant is invited to look at things from a different perspective. Uh they're also encouraged to trust their inner healing intelligence. Uh the trauma is is processed. Uh of course you have to provide preparation uh and orientation to the method uh with MDMA that is set and setting uh as they talked about in the video is very important. the setting that you use it in. It's not a clinical setting. It's not a hospital setting. They did some research uh on when when they did initial research on LSD uh in the early 60s. They did some research in in Canada at a particular hospital where they were going to try to replicate it, but they put people in like a hospital bed, give them a massive dose of LSD and they had a horrible experience because this is very much impacted by your setting uh and also what kind of emotional uh experiences uh and past experiences you bring to the uh to the table. So the therapist then seeks to um maximize the inner experience catalyzed by uh MDMA and then any kind of sematic manifestations because of off you know you can you remember things not just cognitively but you remember them also uh sematically so there's a lot of sematic there can be a lot of sematic um storings of the memory so what uh what mike midhoffer does and because he wrote the protocol the manual that I've taken this from uh he encourages the people to move and to actually move the manif sematic manifestation to kind of process it that way. So you have to kind of understand you have to teach uh the participants what how MDMA works that's not a linear kind of progression uh that one might think it is. Uh and then again the intervention is more about guidance. You're more of a sitter. the person is doing the work and the the uh the diet the male and the female are sitting there in case uh they need support. Uh music and breathing uh is used as are used as tools to kind of help structure the session and then of course there's integration including post session follow-up to be able to integrate what you learned in an altered state uh to conventional reality. So you have to be able to anchor that. So Mike Mit offer says the effects of MD may appear to increase the likelihood that participants will be able to process their fears without emotionally or physically withdrawing from the therapeutic alliance. This is huge. This is very huge. There's no really good interventions for PTSD. Uh and to be able to get to this point is is very significant. So let's talk a bit about set and setting. Uh again, as I said, very important. uh nonclinical uh safe and therapeutic. It's comfortable. There's always a reclining option. Uh when the experience becomes a bit much to sit up, you're encouraged to lie down. Uh aesthetically pleasing. U you can bring art and flowers. There's a medical contingency in case there's any kind of complications uh should that arise. Uh art supplies for any non-verbal uh expression. And then music is provided to support and deepen the process. Uh because it kind of gives structure to essentially a a very different experience. Uh and the music starts off very relaxing. Then it kind of reaches a crescendo which you are kind of mirroring with your the processing and then back down to a meditative uh ending to kind of wind it down. And as I said there's the therapist diet present. There's a male and a female. uh whichever the person feels more comfortable with. This is more this is not conventional therapy because there's also some um and it has to be approved. You might be holding the person's hand to help them through the traumatic experience. Uh so it's it's a little it's a lot different than conventional therapy. This is what the uh what it looks like in this is Mike's office. uh as you could see the reclining option there with the futon and uh the two chairs for him and Annie. Uh his wife is a as a nurse. So the responsibility then of the therapist is just basically to facilitate. So you're not directing the experience. You're just facilitating it. And from a therapist standpoint, that's what you want. You want your client to do the work and you're just there to help. So they're doing the processing. you're there in case they get into a a bad place uh so that you can guide them through that. So the inner healing intelligence is um is is kind of paramount because we have this within ourselves. Uh there in participants are um and that's the other thing he uses the term participants as opposed to subjects. So that's very that's very carefully chosen because when you participate in something you're a willing subject when when you're a subject or you're a patient it it it is has a different kind of feeling. So he Mike calls them participants. Uh it's very analogous to the way the body heals physical injuries like if you come to a doctor and you you have an open wound with stuff in there he cleans it out and your body heals itself. So that is the analogy that is used for MDMA uh to treat PTSD. The therapist just helps to get the debris out of the way for the person to uh process and move on. Uh you invite the person to consider different ways of looking at things. Uh there's that empathic rapport and empathetic presence. uh the the uh therapist is relaxed but engaged and admits that they don't have the answers and again directs the clients to their healing inner intelligence allow them to trust their own conclusions. So uh some motivational interviewing is is uh used paraphrasing and reflecting to get people uh to kind of look at it a different way. Um, it can facilitate a transpersonal experience that which trans transcends ordinary reality which as we've come to find out and which they allude to in the movie, you know, we can reliably induce a mystical experience and all that that engenders. Uh, so disassociative states are considered part of the multiplistic psyche. Uh, and the the material is not pathized. the therapists work with a material. So, as opposed to the model that we use where everything has a diagnosis uh and it's pathized. So, Mike always talks about uh breath work. Uh when people get stuck, he'll have them come he'll have them come up and move. He says he'll have them press against his palms when they're when they have a block. They'll push and they'll actually get a release from that. Uh and emotions are supposed to be fluid and when you have trauma it's frozen. So the whole thing is to kind of move through that. So when you're stuck like that, you're encouraged to get up, move uh and breathe. So, MDMMA connects the psychological uh with the physiological uh so that the so that the participants can process traumatic memories and unprocessed material and then that can change their very core of the way they perceive this uh of being in the world. Matt Bagot who is part of the Harriet Dit lab at the University of Chicago which has been been doing psychedelic research for quite a while now uh says it may not blunt fear and anxiety but may make one less threatened by them and able to move forward. So you have to address any fears or concerns uh identify a support system including significant others. uh pre-warned the uh the participants that there could be negative emotions. That's that's part of the therapeutic process. Uh family members included in the early session. Uh the idea and the concept of how ordinary non-ordinary states of consciousness can be healing. And then there also this the fact that you can be vulnerable afterwards by telling the story. And you'll see at the short video I have at the end where a serviceman who had relief from his PTSD using MDMMA kind of gets made fun of when he's trying to explain to them because everyone's like, "Oh, this is far out." You know, is it kind of that sort of return to the 60s. So MDMA is administered. The participant is encouraged to relax into it. Uh recline on the futon, head shades uh eye shades on, uh the uh uh headphones on to listen to the music, the selected music. Uh reminded to be open to the unfolding process and there's periods of inner and outer focus. Whenever they whenever the participant comes across difficult material, they take the eye shades off and the therapists are right there to help them process it uh on the spot. So the therapist checks in at after the first hour which is about when it you start to feel the uh effects. If they're okay, they ask them to return back to uh the inner experience and again if they have any blocks to move to breathe into it, not to resist it. If the if the par if the participant is distressed uh again to encourage them to surrender control, not to fight it. It's very similar to the mindfulness uh approach that has become very popular now. So you don't fight it, you don't try to push it away, you just you just go with it and uh experience it. Um and the participant is in supported then in processing this and kind of within that vessel of of what MDMA does that that uh that feeling of trust, intimacy, empathy and forgiveness. So at the end the significant other might be uh invited to to kind of share in the what's going to start to be the integration. There's a 90-minute follow-up after the session. Uh the participant is encouraged to explore the experience through artwork. Um writing dreams are also noted. uh more integrative sessions are scheduled prior to the next MDMMA session and then any additional sessions um would be weeks later. So there's enough time between they're spaced enough that the person is able to integrate and what they're trying to refine now is the protocol. Is it going to be three sessions that give significant relief or can we get it down to two? Uh this is one of my favorite quotes to kind of conceptualize it because part of what you have to do as a therapist is to explain the therapy in a way that people can understand it. And this is great. So it's about letting things happen, not grasping. You can trust that same inner healing intelligence that gave you that experience. If you can create space for it, it will keep working for you. Stan Grath liked to say it's about changing life from a boxing match to surfing. You might wipe out in the impact zone, but you're not getting constantly punched in the face. So, I want to I want to take a look at it now from the participants perspective and I have some uh accompanying uh art that will kind of help you envision it. Um this is from uh healing with intactens by Torston Paci. So the the first thing that they report is decreased anxiety, enhanced opening up and building of trust. And what I've done is I've taken from reports of the participants uh some of their quotes which which kind of allude to this. So during the course of the sessions more and more feeling came and then I felt more and more trust in myself. My heart opened up even further. I also have the possibility to access all my emotions to access pictures also access fears and to see them. So what's happening here is this basic balance between trust and fear is altered with an increased profound trust in oneself and then the channels through which associations move are changed and a new conceptualizing of past experience can occur. Now what has happened is we have found out and this this really kind of plays a big role into this memories are not something you open a file drawer cabinet and take the file out and it's there. When you start to have a memory it coaleses as you start to think about it. So that's what research shows. So imagine that you are now in uh your your body is impacted by the MDMA and now you're able to see it a different way as you start to reconceptualize it and then you'll start to remember it a different way. So it's very uh very significant and plays a big role in in the process. There's also a psycho physical relaxation and altered perception of one's body. The body is perceived as very pleasant and free from tension. So the participant said it was first of all a perception in my whole body that was also felt physically that barriers in in me really dissolved uh to experiences severing from bodily barriers which was unbelievably fascinating because I realized in that moment how tensed up otherwise I am in my everyday life. Uh it also accelerates the psychological processes. uh the recollection of trauma can be self- evvaluated then within this sense of calm. So imagine the amygdala fear response from the amygdala is way down the neoccortical processing is up you start coalesing the memory and now you're able to see it a different way and then that becomes the processing. So the construction of the events uh is from from back when it happens becomes possible which further aids in its corrective processing. And the uh quote here is once I actually had a round table of my inner council before my inner eye. Reason, creativity, desire and anger were sitting there and allowed to give one comment. All were allowed to listen and to say something. uh there can be regression. Memories take on a clearer form. You're transported back to the to that time that the memory happened in your body. So the biological events then drive this intacten experience. The quote the memories were decisive because they were perceived as if I were once again a child and had a second chance again. In this internal laboratory, I was able to do this. uh past behaviors or events can be rescripted as I've alluded to before within this therapeutic uh splitting of the ego. You've got the past while you're in the present. Uh you can reappraise it. You can resolve the fixation on some of the obsessive thinking of the past which is part of the PTSD uh symptomology. Dealing it while it again feels fresh. The quote here is, "You're not trapped in this childish problem-solving behavior. For all that you suddenly see, of course, it can be done differently." The transpersonal experience part uh the non-ordinary state of consciousness that Stan Grath talks about, mystical experiences can have strong triggering effects, uh on your life, uh and psychotherrapeutic development. It can change your perspective on life. Um and that doesn't have to be psychedelically uh facilitated. Uh so the quote here is the beautiful thing about one of these sessions was afterward I felt a complete sense of well-being. So oftentimes for the first time since the trauma happened these people feel safe in their bodies and that is an unbelievably awesome experience for them to use as a template going forward because up until that point they haven't been able to do that and they haven't felt comfortable inside their own body. So I want to talk about the groundbreaking research. This is Mike's uh first research. Um it's MDMA assisted psychotherapy in subjects with chronic. Notice the treatment resistant post-traumatic stress disorder. One of the questions that was asked me at the last grand rounds I did at River Edge Hospital is is the person asked me, you know, well, couldn't couldn't get the same results from yoga. And my answer is I wish they could, but we're talking about po we're talking about people that are treatment resistant. They have not gotten any release from everything. It would be nice if yoga could do that but not necessarily the case. So this was published first uh in July 19th of 2010. So this is what this is what it looks like in kind of graph form. So of course before treatment everyone meets the criteria for PTSD and then with the psychotherapy alone uh the blue line here uh you see that there is probably 80% or a little more than that ex still experiencing and meeting the DSM5 criteria for PTSD. Whereas with the MDMA assisted therapy, you see that it is well over 75 closer to 80% that did get relief and no longer met the criteria uh for PTSD. Uh one way to measure t uh PTSD symptoms is this cap score. So before treatment it's at the high end here 80. Two months after treatment it's at 30. The interesting thing about MDMA and many much of the psychedelic uh therapy is that the uh results continue. So over three and a half years, 3.8 years after the treatment, the PTSD symptoms is still going down. So it's still processing. So we want to talk about the phase 2 studies to kind of give you a perspective uh of where it's being done and what's being targeted. This is the research that led up to the approval of phase three. This again is Mike Midhoffer with his wife. The target population, US veterans, firefighters, police officers again with chronic treatment resistant PTSD. So in this they were looking to see about the safety and effectiveness of MDMA assisted psychotherapy in people suffering from war rellated trauma and then comparing war rellated trauma to people with trauma related sexual abuse assault and other cases because there is a difference and they also compared three of the different doses of MDMA for therapeutic effect a low medium and a high dose. These sessions typically have a booster one and a half to two hours later to keep that experience going. So the low end was the low end was 30 milligrams with a with a 15 milligram boost at one and a half to two hours. Medium 75 with with half that boost in the same time frame. And then the full the full dose was 125 milligrams with half that one and a half to two hours later. uh Boulder, Colorado did research on 23 uh PTSD victims from sexual assault, violent crime, war, natural disasters, or other causes. I mean, bear in mind that the suicide rate is 22 a day, right? Uh much of it PTSD related. So, you have something that statistically, you know, the numbers are small because the cost is so high. And that's why we're in phase three finally. Now this this cost an incredible amount of money for for a small amount of subjects. So in this study they're looking at uh effectiveness of MDMA assisted psychotherapy from PTSD a variety of causes comparing different doses and then also to to bring the cost down to see if you can use uh intern co-therapists instead of having you know the higher level psychiatrists and so forth. So they actually trained the first round of psychedelic therapists in April of last year. uh for the phase three studies which is very exciting. So this is a training of the next generation of psychedelic psychotherapists. So we're back to the start after decades. Um British Columbia in Canada Vancouver British Columbia looking at PTSD from sexual assault, violent crime, military service or any other cause. um looking to again show the effectiveness of PTSD and working with uh MDMA working with PTSD comparing different doses and this is very essential uh important is the first research done in Canada in over 40 years because everything's stopped for the most part in the US and Canada so this is very significant uh in Israel uh very interested in uh the use of MDMA because there's a lot of trauma there so in this uh project they're looking at people with treatment resistant PTSD from any cause. Same sort of uh goals looking to see how MDMA works to on PTSD mostly related to war and terrorism a lot of terrorism in the Middle East comparing different doses. Uh working with the Israeli Ministry of of Health and exploring the use of MDMA and other cultures. uh as I said MAPS the multi-disiplinary assoc association for psychedelic studies uh just completed their first training uh in hopes of using them in the phase three studies in hopes that it'll be prescription medicine uh in 2021. So what happened was in November 29th of last year uh all the phase two studies were pulled together and presented to the FDA that was 136 participants uh and they were approved for phase three studies which is basic which is approximately 450 participants multi-sight very expensive with the anticipated start sometime this year. So that is the hope that it'll become prescription medicine in 2021. Uh I want to kind of finish here with a short video that I think is very powerful uh on uh a service man and other people that have gotten relief from PTSD using MDMA. But I don't believe that there's going to be anything that's going to take away your PTSD because every time you start talking about all this [ __ ] talking about in this room, my [ __ ] memory banks just start flooding back in, right? I had to live with it for such a long time and I try to wash it out of my mind. I tried [ __ ] everything and it's nothing that you're going to forget. I got in the army when I was 19 and uh 1964 and as an in country in ' 65 and ' 66 Vietnam as a helicopter mechanic. [Music] one of my best friends. I saw him decapitated by a helicopter blade. And that that was the one that got me. I think I was 22 when I got out. And you know, I I knew something was not right emotionally. I couldn't put my finger on it. [Music] PTSD is basically a collection of symptoms that happen to people after a traumatic event such as sexual abuse, rape, war, accidents, that kind of thing. And it can be really debilitating for people. There's a significant incident of suicide and there's a lot of suffering and disability that comes from living with that. Someone described PTSD as like having a big broken heart. And I think that's pretty good description. You bury those emotions that make you human. Well, historically the treatments weren't terribly effective. Um, a lot of supportive counseling, a lot of groups discussing feelings. And what's far better is treatments that involve exposure. Depending on what literature you look at, probably around half the people are not well served. There's also pharmarmacology. Zoloft and Paxel and other medications kind of help to decrease the intensity of symptoms like anxiety, but they don't tend to get at the root of the problem and really cure cure the disorder. I got to the point where I had so many drugs, I just put them in a big bag and threw them away. I said, I don't want to be drugged for the rest of my life. I was kind of I say desperate, I just wanted to do something. A friend of mine had committed suicide and uh I was just tired of kind of carrying the baggage and I saw this clip on CNN. This is the place where we do the study. This is where we meet with people and then this is where we do the MDMA sessions. Intense psychotherapy including 8hour sessions after taking a capsule of MDMA of ecstasy. MDMA is methylene dioxymethamphetamine. It produces a reduction of activity in the amygdala, the fear processing part of the brain. It enhances activity in the frontal cortex where people put things in context. It releases oxytocin and prolactin which are hormones of bonding and affiliation and [Music] love. And the remarkable thing that we've learned about memory is that when you remember something, you have to reconsolidate the memory. You're basically recreating the memory. So that if this memory is linked to fear and under the influence of MDMA, you can bring back the memory but the fear response is dampened down. Then when you reconsolidate the memory, it doesn't have that fear to it and you've been able to put it in context as then and not now. Well, it's certainly understandable that people don't necessarily realize that this could be a a potential therapeutic tool. A lot of people don't know the history. Most people don't understand that MDMA really began as a therapy drug in the um middle 70s and early 80s. And then from that some people realized that they could make a lot of money selling it in more uh recreational settings and more public settings. And so it was just inevitable that there would be a crackdown. The conclusion of the administrative law judge that did the DEA hearings was that it did have medical utility and it should be in schedule three, meaning you can't sell it in bars, but doctors can use it. and the DEA administrator overruled that and put it in schedule one anyway. And I felt it was important that we look into this further. No, no controlled research had been done. We designed a study in which people would have 8-hour all day sessions with me and Annie in which we'd give them MDMA and then spend the day with them helping them process what came up. I had a a very chaotic childhood and because of that I was exposed to you know a lot of random abuse, sexual abuse. As a child I had a lot of symptoms. I was anxious, I had sleeplessness, I had vomiting, irritable bowels but I didn't get any real medical attention until I was like 20. conventional psychotherapy, cognitive behavioral therapy, rapid eye movement therapy, drugs and medication. Anything that came through, I would try it with complete abandon. And it seemed like the more I tried, I would uncover more and more stuff would come up to the surface and then I it would start to just get worse. The first study was inactive placebo compared to MDMA. So some people got inactive placebo with all the same therapy, the same all day sessions, the exact same approach. I got placebo. So I was not changed even though this was the best of the best of the best. I knew that I could come back and I would be getting the medicine 2 months later. Now that's when everything changed. Well, in our first study, basically in a nutshell, 25% of the people that got the therapy with placebo were basically free from PTSD at the end compared to 83% with MDMA. So 83% no longer met criteria for PTSD. There's thing called a CAPS score that rates how sick you are. After this last treatment, he did we did my CAPS evaluation. And I came back for the two-month follow-up to do the CAPS to see what the results of it were. And he comes back and he sits down. He says, "Rachel, you don't have postraumatic stress disorder anymore. You don't have it." When I first heard about the studies, I signed up right away and I was like, I got to thinking about I mean, it was like 2400 miles of logistics. There's cost involved. Uh then I broke it down. And I said, "Well, what do you got? Ecstasy and therapist. Hell, I live next to college town. It's a no-brainer." You know, the treatments that are that are sold to us at the VA are are are high in number and varied in legitimacy. And MDMA is one of them. If a veteran said, "Listen, I saw this on CNN and this is something I really want to do. Why aren't you offering it? It might work, but we don't have the data to support that." This was my own thing. uh you know what they were doing was 2400 miles away. I says I've got to deal with what I have and I didn't have any compunction about it whatsoever. Fortunately, I had a friend of mine's son. He had met some guy in Sacramento who was going down to Los Angeles to score a big bunch and uh I was able to get some and uh it worked out beautifully. The first time I did it, it's like there's just this blanket of warmth of glowing. I just like felt alive again in touch with my feeling and stuff. And uh the music music was incredible under the [Music] influence. And after I did the first first session by myself, I was like I felt a noticeable noticeable difference. [Music] Then I got in touch with the somebody I knew as a therapist, explained to him what I was trying to do, and then I did three three-hour sessions. And uh it was extraordinary. I mean, it just like, you know, I I did in what three sessions I couldn't do in 30, 40 years. [Music] Well, right now we're in what the FDA calls phase two, which is a number of small studies. And then hopefully in a couple years we'll be able to move on to phase three, which means two to 300 people each in multiple sites. And you need two of those to then apply to FDA for approval as a indication as a treatment. If it keeps going well, what we think is going to happen is it would be approved not that you can give a prescription and people can pick it up at the pharmacy, but that it can be it would be approved for use in specially licensed clinics. Last year, the VA spent around $5.5 billion on disability payments for over 275,000 vets. They perceive this as a crisis. There's 22 vets on average committing suicide every day. So while the VA has certain therapies that they've developed, there's a pretty strong awareness that there's a substantial number of people for whom these therapies do not work. The best treatments are cognitive processing therapy and prolonged exposure. We know that these work. It's hard to then say, "Okay, now that we finally got something that is very effective in 65 to 80% of cases, let's try a a far out type of treatment." If somebody were to come along with a treatment that has a lower side effect profile, lower attrition, same effect size, easier to do, well then we'll do that. What I fear though, and what I don't like to see, and what basically just pisses me off, is when people forego the effect of evidence-based treatments for the peripheral type treatments that don't have any real evidence, they don't have a great outcome, and then they give up on any treatment. And that bothers me a lot. And that that does happen sometimes. The real issue is, does this help people or not? And if it does, if they're suffering from PTSD and this is a tool that can help them, we should develop it. And even though there's a short-term cost that some people will seek it out on their own and may find impure drugs or not be sufficiently supported, that's not a reason not to develop it into a medicine. And in fact, it's a reason to develop it as quickly as possible. There is so much enthusiasm from medical students, residents, young therapists that are interested in this field. I mean just in the last four years I think the amount of enthusiasm and people wanting to do this and open to it has really changed. It's funny I tell people about this and you know the veterans and stuff like that and it just uh it goes right over their head and that they don't understand it but you know just I sure did. I picked up on it right away and you know when it start the word gets out and I think things will change. So what type what are they training them with now that you're studying? Well they're looking at using MDMA to cure PTSD basically. I don't think there's a cure but that would be fun. There is it is where do we sign up? There is a cure. So you can see the reaction, you know, of the populace, you know, and the the guy the veterans, you know, far out, you know, I mean, that's fortunately, you know, it's we're talking about a new generation now. Guys like you don't you weren't around when we made the mistakes the first time. So I invite you when you talk about these sort of things talk about them very respectfully. This is medicine. This helps people. You know the recreational use and like Rick said that the fact that this is going out on the street does shouldn't mean that we shouldn't have this for medicine. That's not a reason to to not have the research that uh that so needs to be done. So our technique may change the practice of psychotherapy on a scale akin to what followed in medicine after the discovery of antibiotics. The world's populations need more compassion and empathy for one another. The study of MDMA provides one small but potentially important step toward reaching that goal. So, I want to end there with a picture of myself and my wife Karen and Mike and Annie at the first soldout psychedelic conference in San Jose in 2010. And here we are seven years later looking at at MDMA as medicine for PTSD. So, um any questions? Yes. So you know how vitamin D deficiency is usually linked for participants to be more prone to PTSD and depression due to that. How does um if they were to participate in an MDMA MDMA um process, how would that affect them since you know how there's like a serotonin depletion afterwards and that's one of the things that there's that chemical imbalance when they have the vitamin D deficiency imbalance. How does that like how is that a disadvantage for them so to speak? Well, I'm not I'm not sure I'm not sure I can speak to the vitamin D deficiency. uh the depletion and that that's why it you know we're we're talking about a couple of sessions over you know two to three sessions over over a period of time um that you know the the um there's there's a side effect too of of that kind of the let down after that sort of serotonin thing. That's why serotonin is a very powerful neurotransmitter. Um that's that's why you know um in in this case they're targeting PTSD uh specifically and there's there's not been any I mean from the reports granted you know it's small because of the cost of couple hundred uh I haven't read anything that was had any concerns about that because it's not repeated use you know it's at the most three times I know you know from somebody that's kind of used my classes as a way to uh kind of do the harm reduction on chemicals like this that you know people that use it every weekend are are asking for a lot of trouble you know um I mean people that pop aspirins and uh non-steroidal you know inflammatory medicine too need to be aware of some of the some of the the potential side effects too so um I I think that uh something that can give you relief uh you know the fact that it might have some letdown I mean I think there's some way to tweak that I know that there's psychiatrists that give, you know, that might give an SSRI the next day, you know, that sort of thing. So, as as as this goes forward more, I think those kind of things will be addressed uh and and will be kind of tweaked, but we're, you know, we're so far far away from that. Yes. How could you prevent um the therapeutic use of enthogens from becoming something like the Iwasa tourism industry? How do you separate? Yeah, it's it's I mean I I don't think there is any way to do it. I think and I give Rick Dlin a lot of credit as the executive director of maps and I mean the three organizations are Beckley Institute in UK uh BEC Beckley Institute in UK. There's maps which I have the literature here. Uh and then there's a Heft institute. Um so there's three of them and they they each have different uh uh kind of agendas to some degree. With Heft it's psilocybin. Uh with with MAPS it's more than just MDMMA, but they're it's cost a lot of money. So they're putting a lot of effort into that. I think that what's happening is you can't stop it. I mean I'm I'm here to tell you I was around the first time and went off the tracks. But this time the people that are doing the research that are presenting the Mike Midhoffers, myself, I mean it's we're presenting it a a different way. We're presenting it the way that it should be. It's the science of it. You you're not there's no way to stop that. And you know there's still like a lot of residual discussions going on within the psychedelic community which I'm peripheral a part of. people that think that, you know, the government shouldn't be involved in this because then what they'll be doing is curing people of PTSD and putting them back out on the battlefield. So, they don't want to see that. And I I get that. And so, they're they're not very happy with MAPS, you know, pushing the ball forward. But I I I think we have to in order to get legitimacy, we have to be able to to do that because how I mean, who is going to administer these substances? I'm very concerned with what you talked about. I'm very concerned with the under underground psychedelic movement even locally. It's huge. It's huge. There's a lot of ceremonial stuff going on everywhere. And you know, I hope that you know, people are smart and um you know, they know what they're doing. You know, looking at sites like Arowwood and not, you know, I work in mental health. I run adult mental health at a community mental health center in Northwest suburbs. And very occasionally, hardly ever, I'll get somebody with a story and they'll call me in the room because they know. And it starts like this. You know, I ate a handful of mushrooms and next thing I was naked on top of a building. You know, well, how many mushrooms did you I don't know. I ate a handful. Well, that's not a very good idea. That's not treating them. That's not treating them with respect. You don't That's not the way that the indigenous people used it. So that's kind of what we've learned, you know, that there has to be kind of that ritualistic use and and not this, you know, grabbing handfuls and ingesting things that you don't know anything about because then you'll end up in a place where you might not be able to, you know, successfully integrate from. So I don't know if there's any way to stop that. I think that we have to keep pushing forward with this aspect of it. Like Rick says, the more research we will do we do on it, the more we'll be able to deal with some of the problems that happens on the underground. The thing that is is curious is that even though the research had stopped and obviously is now resurrected, it's never stopped out on the street. It's been going, you can get anything you want out there, you know, and the tourism that you refer to, I mean, you hear the good stories and the bad stories. This happened in the 60s with psilocybin. You know, people went down to Mexico and, you know, and kind of all hell broke loose. So, you know, I I hope that the message gets out to people to use this with a with a lot of respect and and not to not to take it when you're in a bad place, you know. And when I spent time with Sasha Schulen, he said, you know, make sure you have a sitter and it's not somebody that's using have have this all set up in place and don't just randomly use, you know. So you have I think that's that's the only thing we can do is just keep doing the research, keep getting the message out, you know, so that so that won't happen because it it stopped everything stopped everything dead in its tracks some decades ago. Yes, Robin, I have a question about um when a person is taking the underinvision, how do you get the patient to conceptual memories that they need to or is that what's done afterwards? Well, that that's actually what that's what happens as part of the process because again if if you remember what what they were what Mike was saying is that when you're remembering in in in a non-MDMA state when you're very symptomatic with PTSD, you got the amydala firing and it just the the bar everybody you know they're hyper like this. So when you have the when you have MDMA in in your system, it it really brings the the m you know the amygdala down and then the person then with is able to look at it without the without that. Are they coached when they're Well, they Yeah, they they they they do get sessions before that, but most of of what happens, my understanding of it is that they're able to they're able to when you take that fear element out and increase the the uh the neocortical, the thinking part of it, they're able to think through it on their own. So, it's only when they get stuck that that Mike or Annie or any of the therapists jump in. So it's you you have to be careful because when you coach people that you could say that that you're putting words in their mouth or you know they had this whole thing about false memories, people remembering that they were abused when they weren't. So they kind of I I I feel that they kind of stay away from that but it's they they're made to understand that you're going to be in this place to be able to think about what happened to you in your own fashion. And for what what they do is they give you the first dose and then like I said an hour and a half to two hours later they give you half of that dose. So it extends that that period that interval where you're working through that and then you have the therapist there and then you do the integrative sessions uh you know starting you know after uh and going through until uh up until the next session. So the work is is typically done by them. I mean, that's why I thought, you know, having, you know, the subjects uh explain that, you know, it's it's kind of hard to explain, hard to quantify. So, they're Yeah, they're not they're not coached. It's the vessel that they're in now is able they feel safe that they can think about it. And Mike uses like some of the EM EMDR, which I also use for PT for PTSD. And and what happens, it's it's that kind of thing, too. But this, of course, is amplified by MDMA. It's it's the fact that all of a sudden you're able to think of it cognitively in different terms and then once you make that flip and then then when now when you remember it it's not you know it's like the it's no different than when you resolve something personally and then you're able to to move on. So with it with you know with the uh with the medicine of MDMA that's possible and it seems to be rather permanent to Yeah. Yeah. It it it does. I mean as far as they've been doing the the uh the follow-ups have been very good. uh and you know because it's very important is the the after the afterare part of it to make sure that uh that they're able to you know I mean a couple of the side effects obviously is some negative stuff if you you know you tell people they might say things to you like oh wow isn't that stuff that makes you crazy you know and that and that kind of thing and you have to deal with it so I think the the coaching part comes and you be careful who you share this with just kind of you know just kind of deal with it with with people and the therapists and so forth that are are part of that because um that that can kind of impact it too. So any any other questions? Yeah. So so stay tuned. Uh you know the psilocybin they're talking about psilocybin now for depression. I was saying I I I made I did a big presentation with a lot of people in Veroqua. Uh Brandon was there. uh hundreds of people, different topics. Uh the two most powerful presentations were the people who were cured who got better from from one from PTSD was the first time the serviceman presented. He got a standing ovation. We people were I was crying. It was unbelievable. And then somebody who uh was very depressed and explained it in great detail and he knew the torture uh and uh under psilocybin was a able to come to a different realization. And psilocybin has some very interesting characteristics because there's two networks in your brains that are competing and then when you're under the influence of psilocybin all of a sudden they're not competing and then you know some of the resolution comes there. So we knew it the first time around and now we're in part two but we know the second time around is and used in the right context with the right you know in in in with the right setting uh at the right time uh you can get reliably good results. but it's not going to be like it was uh back in the 60s because we can't afford another setback. Hopefully by 2021 we'll be looking at MDMA's prescription medicine in a clinical setting uh and we'll be able to move on. So thanks for your support. [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 8eKuQrNk30Y (https://youtu.be/8eKuQrNk30Y) ===

I'd like to thank our sponsors blood moon box a monthly subscription box service for period pads and tampons to help support All Humans who have a cycle for that time of the month and no need to run to a store to mix and match period supplies that don't cater to the entire es and flows of your cycle there are two box options based on your cycle light and medium and then heavy and in addition to the period products you'll also receive PMS herbal teas a candle and some other items for your time of the month you can reserve a box by navigating to blood moonbox dcom and blood moonbox docomo the idea of period blood at bloodman box they believe that it is the time to honor the enchanting magic within every person who has a cycle so join us in embracing the magic of your cycle with blood moon box hi my name is Yasmin Teri and this is gateways to Awakening where we host one-on-one conversations with leading experts in Wellness well-being spirituality and Consciousness today's episode is with Rick doblin the founder and president of multi-disciplinary Association for psychedelic studies known as Maps he received his Doctorate in public policy from Harvard's Kennedy School of government where he wrote his dissertation on the regulation of the medical uses of psychedelics and marijuana and his master's thesis on a survey of oncologists about smoked marijuana versus the oral THC pill in nausea control for cancer patients he's got such an incredible breath of experience in the Psychedelic imp plant medicine space he founded maps in 1986 and he has an amazing uh Ted Talk which you should find out about called the future of psychedelic assisted therapy and I am so excited to welcome Rick to the show we initially met at a conference a couple months ago and had a lovely conversation and I've just been following his work for a long time so welcome to the show Rick thank you y me I've been looking forward to our discussion for quite a while likewise likewise uh so Rick to kick it off you know why do you think psychedelics and plant medicine are so important and maybe you know for our audience that's so diverse maybe you could also Define what these terms mean like what the difference between psychedelics and plant medicine are um yeah be I'm glad to start there so the word psychedelic did not exist until a dialogue in the 50s between Aldis Huxley and Humphrey Osmond and they were realizing that the words that had been used before for this class of drugs didn't quite capture what was going on so one of the words was psychotomimetic which which means mimic psychosis that was what people thought initially when they observed the LSD experience and actually Sandos where Albert Hoffman was when he really discovered the Psychedelic properties of or the properties of LSD in 1943 they suggested that it could be good for uh psychiatrists to take in order to understand more about what their mentally e patients were going through and so they called it psychot my medic but over time they realized that there was more going on this wasn't really psychosis it was something much much different the other word hallucinogen had been used which is very negative in the sense that it's a hallucination it's a delusion it's not real there's nothing really a value there it's not solid um and so there was this growing sense that a new word was needed and so in poetry back and forth between Alis Huxley and Humphrey Osman um they were trying out new different words and so hre oan wrote a book to um to sink to hell or sore Angelic just take a pinch of psychedelic and so psychedelic was a word that Humphrey Osman made up and it's um psyche the Mind delos is to reveal so it's mind manifesting to manifest the mind and I like to use that in the original way it was developed to also relate to dreams to meditation to fasting so that psychedelic is about bringing things to the surface of our awareness and it's not necessarily limited to drugs so Stan gra the world's leading LSD researcher and theoretician the co-founder of transpersonal psychology developed what he called holotropic breath work and this was after LSD was criminalized and research was shut down and so you can produce experiences that are very similar in many respects to LSD just from hyperventilation so psychedelic meaning mind manifesting plant medicines is referred is a kind of a um a way to appeal to people's sense that things that are in nature are somehow or other um good and healthy and if things come from the laboratory you know we're somewhat more suspicious of that um not justifiably so there's a lot of plants that are poisonous and there's a lot of synthetics that are you know tremendously valuable like LSD for example or MDMA so I think plant medicines has been the term that's been used in the United States for drug policy reform efforts for initiatives on state levels to create legal contexts for people to experience psychedelic States Of Consciousness regardless of whether they actually have a diagnosis so the work that Maps is doing with MDMA the work that other groups are doing with psilocybin is mostly to work through the FDA to develop them into prescription medicines that would be covered by insurance and that's very very important but that takes a long time and so there's been these efforts Colorado was the first um well in Denver they made mushrooms the lowest enforcement priority that spread to a lot of different cities um around the country Oregon made the Oregon psilocybin initiative which U created a state training program and state legal access for people with diagnoses or or looking for personal growth Colorado passed uh natural plant medicines um and now it's going to be on the ballot in Massachusetts in November another natural plant medicines and they find that when people add MDMA or LSD to it then it doesn't pass because they think oh it's not just plants now it's synthetics and people are more cautious about that uh there has been another word that has been developed um enogen which is defined as revealing the God within you know like Theos or theology um I don't particularly like that word or use it and I I think when we think about um the messages that words con convey hallucinogen conveys this idea as I said before that it's a delusion and it's not really valuable it's a perjorative negative word anthen I think is propaganda on the other side it's not always spiritual when people take psychedelics um it can be it can often be really disorienting for people unless there's a lot of therapeutic support so um it's not always revealing the God within so I I prefer the word psychedelic which I think is more neutral and applies to a broad range of catalysts other than just physical substances yeah so I want to dive into this uh the conversation around like you know what when people think about psychedelics especially folks who are maybe new to the space there's always this kind of um reply that oh it's just something happening in the brain locally and so I'm curious cuz I think this spiritual lens on psychedelics is so interesting you know what is your perspective on this debate between like is this something that's local versus non-local and what's your perspective on like the sort of spirituality connection to the world of psychedelics do you believe that um or not and and why well Le let's look now broadly at Humanity over the last several thousands of years um the world's longest running mystery ceremony involving a psychedelic was the linian Mysteries and it was the Greeks and it was from around 1600 BC to almost 400 ad when it was wiped out by the Catholic church in power play um so psychedelics are part of the foundations of democracy in the Greeks the foundations of philosophy um and they often had a a very spiritual aspect in it and the idea of the linian Mysteries was about the mystery of life and death and this um Eternal process that were involved in of life and death um psychedelics have been used for thousands of years in other cultural contexts uh iasa in South America ibigan in Africa there there's been Soma in the in India so there's always been these physical substances that have been been associated with um spiritual experiences and often these spiritual experiences in in these cultural contexts were also combined with healing it was about both you know spirituality and medicine and I do think that there's um a reason this has been going on for thousands of years uh a reason that they survive despite the fact that Dominator uh organizations uh like various organized religions or the you know have tried to squash it um and they're about direct spirituality so I think that's why they threaten certain organizations that um they they enable people to have this direct experience of going beyond their um what people used to call the skin and capsulated ego you know where we are really focused on what we need for survival for thriving but often we don't have this perspective of how we're part of something much larger um from a scientific point of view the very first study that was done to really examine whether psychedelics would have a um spiritual aspect to it and could produce this mystical unit of experience took place in 1962 this was one of the best things that Timothy ly did at Harvard Walter Panky was his PhD student was a doctor and AD Minister and they conducted what is called The Good Friday experiment and it took people 20 Divinity students from Andover theological Seminary and it took place inside the Boston University Chapel on Good Friday so it was religiously inclined people in a religious setting receiving half of they all got a pill half got psilocybin and half got a placebo and the purpose was to see if they would be U would have a spiritual experience Miss according to a mystical experience questionnaire that Walter Panky who did the experiment spent a year developing and it's that same questionnaire in essence that is used in the current research with psychedelics after all these years called the mystical experience question there and what the study demonstrated is that um roughly nine out of the 20 people had what they would consider to be a mystical experience and eight out of those nine had the psilocybin and one had the placebo and I did a 25y year followup to that study and did that in the middle ' 80s at a time of the escalation of the drug war ncy Reagan just say no and um if there was any time for people to feel social pressure to Discount the prior validity of a psychedelic experience it would have been when I was doing this followup and they indeed affirmed the fact that it felt genuinely mystical to them at the time and these people over time many of them had had non-drug mystical experiences to compare to that psilocybin induced mystical experience and they considered it to be valid and to have had a really positive contribution in their lives and deepening their spiritual understandings so I think that for me there's pretty much no question based on my own experiences too where my psychic experiences have moved me to really think about who I am and many of us think about who we are is based on our gender or our national ity or our religion or our race or our tribal identification in all these different ways and I think the transformation that that we all need to go through um both as individuals and Humanity as a whole to realize that we're there's something deeper which is we are part of life on Earth we are part of this web of life on Earth and that we're not separate from that and that people that are different from us are actually more Sim way more similar than they are different and I think it it parallels a lot of the views that the astronauts had as they were going to the moon or you know going up in space and you look back at the Earth in space and you see this um as one system you don't see the borders you don't see the religions there's thousands of religions uh in America but they're all sort of trying to speak about similar kinds of things in different culturally context ways but I think this idea that um psychedelics produce a genuine spiritual experience I think has been confirmed by both thousands of years of history and also uh Decades of scientific research as well you know I want to actually talk about some of the most popular psychedelics and what type of impact each of them have made and also you know I'm sure that there's a lot of studies on the science behind psychedelics and what it does to your own brain right in terms of um creating a positive impact so I'd love for you to share some psychedelics that have made um you know really positive impact all around in the world even of you know Neuroscience I'm I'm sure that we can talk about this for hours but maybe we could just give a couple examples yeah yeah so um let's start with um MDMA since now of of all the psychedelics you know back when I started maps in ' 86 um did kind of a strategic analysis which psychedelic is likely to make it through the um FDA system first and then how do we pair that with a patient population and that ended up to be um MDMA for post-traumatic stress disorder and it is the case now that December 11th 2023 we submitted the data to the FDA to start the new drug application or the NDA process which we hope potentially will lead to FDA approval for MDMA assisted therapy for PTSD sometime August or September of 2024 if all goes well so what we know about how MDMA actually works there's um PTSD changes your brain and that if you have PTSD you have hyperactive amygdala which is where we process fear you're always seeing the world in as a dangerous place there's a reduction in activity in the prefrontal cortex where we think logically so people are often triggered into feeling their back in the traumatic situation they can't really separate out uh car backfires or noises that sound like explosions or or people wearing clothes similar to what a perpetrator War when when people were sexually abused or something like that and then there's also reduction in activity and connectivity in the hippocampus where memories are put into long-term storage and the connection between the amydala and the hi campus is reduced so MDMA now does the opposite MDMA reduces activity in the amygdala so that fear-based memories are not so fearful that there's increased activity in the prefrontal cortex so people can think more logically and then there's increased activity connectivity with the hippocampus and the amydala so that people can take these traumatic memories that have seemed like they're never really in the past they're they're always about to happen and they're able to uh put them into the past and then the other big thing about uh MDMA what we know is that it releases oxytocin which is this hormone of Love connection nursing mothers and it promotes this sense of self compassion self-love self acceptance and that's a core part of it now the classic psychedelics like LSD cocin um you know masculine from peot or San Pedro um they act in a different way they don't really reduce activity in the amydala um and they but they reduce activity in what has been called the default mode Network which is an which is somewhat similar to our sense of self so that our ego identification of who we are meaning our biological from birth to death what is our personality that that part of the brain system is reduced we don't filter information in that way according to what what our core needs are and at the same time um we get connected to more um information flow that's coming in and also often people have the sense with this Eco reduction that they're part of something larger than themselves and I think that's a big part of what it is this idea of a spiritual experience so I think that we have now through science U have come to a better understanding of what people have been doing for thousands of years and I I think it does point to this idea that these experiences um would be considered genuinely spiritual in Many religious contexts all over the world and we do have religions that are focused on psychedelics like the Native American Church where peyote is a core part of their religion iasa churches from South America the Bui who use Iain so I think it's kind of an unusual situation where ancient wisdom and modern science are both pointing in the same direction yeah wow so okay so let's say for folks who are listening who want to experience this for the first time or have like a very specific issue like where where should they start like what's kind of the first place that someone should go to if they want to explore maybe heal some trauma you know should we go straight to the therapist um the nonprofit organizations like what as I think that that question has come up a lot with the audience which is like I I don't know where to begin I don't know what I need um so guide me well the most important thing to to to say in response to to your question is that it's not the drug that really matters the most it's the safe context it's the safe supportive context and so when people think about they want to have this experience I think they really need to think more about the context than about the substance and then also people need to have this other layer which is uh what do they think about legal contexts versus uh illegal contexts because there has been an effort as I started to say you know through the Catholic church around um a little bit like 396 or so uh to wipe out psychedelics and dry them underground the burning of the witches that took place is often in the Middle Ages they were often connected to plant medicines uh conquistadors the first thing that they did was to kill the shamans when they came to the Western World so I think for people that are interested in these experiences the part that's legal right now uh is a um a part of ketamine uh called esketamine that is available for the treatment of depression so that's something for people to think about and there are clinics um hundreds of clinics in America but I think this is an example of how the pharmaceutical industry big Pharma thinks and that esketamine was approved without therapy and it doesn't work as well as it does if it were connected to therapy but the Pharma companies don't make money from therapists and also when you provide it without therapy the results fade quicker and you need more uh esketamine called sprado so people should if they're thinking about ketamine they should I would suggest only go to places that have combined ketamine with therapy There Are Places now in Oregon people can go for soloc cybin in Colorado it will soon be set up for plant medicines people can go to Jamaica to Costa Rica to the Netherlands for legal Sol asignment experiences um but the context is the critical thing and in all the research that's been done with Psychotherapy of different kind of psychotherapies um the most important factor as far as whether people show progress is called the Therapeutic Alliance meaning the trust and the sense of safety and support that exists between the therapist and the patient and that that's more important than the specific kind of therapy that's done is it Freudian psychoanalysis is it uh cognitive behavioral therapy or any number of psychodynamic therapies different kinds um it's really about this therapeutic relationship is the key thing so it's most important for people to find a context where they really have good feelings and trust with the providers so I think that's number one that's more important than which drug it is and what kind of approach the providers use I think the challenge is that it's very very slow to go through the FDA you know Maps I started 1986 and we're hoping finally after almost 38 years that by the end of 2024 when it'll be 38 and A2 Years hopefully we'll be ready to go to market so there's not very many legal contexts um from a federal point of view now we all know about how in America there's um quite a lot of uh marijuana legalization States uh about 39 or so medical marijuana states and that's going even though it's federally illegal but there's no federal enforcement so I think a good place for people to start is this holotropic breath work which is completely legal and it's just based on hyperventilation and so you could just do Google search for holotropic breath work and find practitioners over most of the United States um and Europe and and other parts of the world as well I I think the challenges for people that are really suffering from uh PTSD depression and who have uh not found relief sufficient relief with currently available therapies and medications what do they do um sooc cybin is going to probably uh become a medicine in the US um I would guess maybe in 2027 or something like that it's it's definitely going to be years behind uh MDMA um so it's a challenge for people and I do just want to add that I think the drug war is fundamentally counter productive promotes violence impure drugs it doesn't really help people with drug abuse problems it drives them away from treatment so I do think of prohibition as fundamentally um counterproductive and uh undue infringement on personal Liberty for freedom of thought but that's not a widespread view but there is increasing disenchantment about the drug war so I think people um have a have a difficult choice um about how to go forward if they feel that these substances would be useful for them you know it's not so useful to say to people wait a couple years particularly if they're suffering now but at the same time it's it's hard to figure out what really to say and you know so I I would suggest probably think about ketamine s ketamine sprado um but only go to clinics where they provide it with therapy yeah and it's such a powerful point this like the therapy piece the integration piece because I think that that has been largely left out of kind of like the mainstream conversation around psychedelics which is you know you got to do the work of integration right and um and and work with someone who understands how to hold that kind of container and space as opposed to just like experimentation without the context and and the the safety so I really appreciate that Rick I want to talk about Maps you know you mentioned that this this has been a long game for you um so I'm curious you know what was your first experience and did that was that kind of the Catalyst that encourage you to to build to build maps and to also devote so much of your life to this work I mean what was the inspiration uh for this yeah well um thank you very much for asking that question um me so for me growing up in the 60s U you know I was born in 53 fre so I was kind of a a you know young teenager in the 60s my parents did not drink alcohol they did not smoke cigarettes they did not do anything um to alter their Consciousness they didn't meditate anything like that I'm the oldest of four kids and so I grew up believing the propaganda that LSD made you we were told that if you take LSD five or six times you're certifiably insane I was also told that LSD will hurt your chromosomes and you'll have deform babies um and I was told that um you take LSD you're going to jump out of a window or you're going to stare at the Sun and go blind or so I believed all these things as I was growing up and the Catalyst for me was actually literature you know I loved to read I was very shy could hardly talk to a girl I was just very much um into books and also very political and aware of how cruel people have been to other people and how something needed to be figured out so that we don't murder each other or blow the planet up with a nuclear war and so I was studying Uh Russian to learn about the other actually my parents sent me to Russia in 1970 at the height of the cold war with a bunch of 60 other us high school students trying to learn Russian which really was incredible for me to realize that these people did not want to kill us it was their governments and our governments were at odds but the people really didn't want to kill us um but in my Russian class somebody gave me a book to read and I I loved it and I had it back to him and he said do you realize the person wrote part of this book on LSD and I'm like well that's impossible and well it turned out it was true it was Ken Key's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest So reading that is what really was the Catalyst I think if somebody can produce this incredibly powerful evocative book while they're partially under well while part of it written under the influence of LSD then I must have been told something wrong about LSD then my first time that I took LSD um it really did help me to decide that this was something much more substantial and serious and potentially beneficial than I had realized although very very difficult in that letting go of this ego sense of identification it's not easy and often people confuse that with physical death this ego dissolution is often confused with physical death and and people often do think that they're dying while they're sort of Letting Go their sense of identity so it was difficult for me um to handle but I had intimations that it was very um important and I I also felt tremendously disappointed by my bar mitzvah when I was 13 you know it failed to turn me into a man I thought I thought I'd have some kind of spiritual connection which didn't happen it was good party but that was it and when I LSD I was like this is what my bar mitzo should have been who am I where do I fit in you know what's the larger world what is this thing about death am I going to die how how does this square with how do I try to live my life in a beautiful way but I had difficult times letting go and I had a sequence of uh difficult experiences and I went to the guidance counselor at school and I was so unbelievably lucky that this guidance counselor took me seriously and he gave me a book to read and that was Realms of the human conscious observations from LSD research by Stan gr so it was that that was really the Catalyst because I saw several different things I saw how the research had been very promising how it had been very helpful therapeutically how it had also produced in Stan what he called the craphy of the unconscious a range of experiences that included this mystical sense of unitive Consciousness and connection that had I thought and Stan talked about it this way certain political implications if you feel you're part of everything and everything's part of you it's harder for you to demonize others and to kill them and to make them the problem because we realize we're really all in it together and so it was that was the Catalyst was reading Stan's book and luckily for me the guidance counselor had it directly from Stan a manuscript copy years before it came out and I wrote to Stan and now this is I'm an 18-year-old kid confused by my LSD experiences he was 44 and was leading the um research LSD PhD at Hopkins but his research was just being shut down and he wrote me back and encouraged me to um take a seminar with him that summer which I did um and so I think it was this combination of a therapeutic potential and also this scientific overlay of understanding the Realms of the human unconscious validating the sort of mystical experience and also this theory of change related to how if we all think how we're all really connected that that might have really important implications for how we treat the planet how we treat nature and how we treat each other and because I was learning about this as it was wiped out as the research had been wiped out as the backlash had taken over I thought well I have some privileges my family is very supportive and so this will be a good way to contribute to to a better world to try to bring back psychedelic research so that was 1972 um more than 50 years ago and I'm so lucky that my 18-year-old self had such a good idea oh my gosh that's so amazing I'm just also so in awe of this like long game that you've played I mean most people I think would have given up uh you know very soon after so yeah I would say speaking of the long game you know for the longest time it has been how to bring back psychedelics and now that they're is just a psychedelic Renaissance and an enormous amount of uh new research way more multiple times more than in the 60s and so then so we needed a new vision to animate what we're doing it's not make MDMA do medicine or bring back psychedelic research so talking about a long game the new vision is a world of Net Zero trauma by 2070 and I don't think I'll be alive to see that but I think this idea that Humanity as a whole has increasing number of stresses and I think it's going to get worse over the next couple decades with there's an estimate of a billion climate refugees by 2050 if we don't change the trajectory of climate change so I think that the idea of Net Zero trauma doesn't mean no trauma there's always going to be trauma there's always going to be death and illness and sadness and accidents but Net Zero just means that we're not adding to the global burden of trauma because we also know about multigenerational trauma trauma um can be passed on genetically through the mother or the father in what are called epigenetic mechanisms it's it's not the genes themselves but what turns them on and off can be impacted by trauma and so I think 270 is you know more or less you know almost 50 a little bit less than 50 years from now but I I think by that point we could have globalized access to psychedelic assistant therapy of all different kinds both me and um religious use and also drug policy reform and we can have trained enough therapists so hopefully we will help Humanity as a whole process trauma and have these deeper spiritual intimation so that we can really approach the challenge of making a heaven on Earth um in a more realistic way and without a lot of this um denial and frustration and demonizing others I'll just add that um Carl Young had a beautiful quote he said the most important uh spiritual therapeutic and political work that we can do is withdraw the projection of our shadow onto others and so the shadow is the parts of ourselves that we disown and we tend to say oh okay um Trump is a great example of this he's always accusing people of doing exactly what he's doing as a way to try to make it seem less outrageous what he's doing so I think this idea of withdrawing the projection of our shadow and um helping us process our emotions um is is critical to survival and I think that the long game I mean for those of people out there who are parents um you know I have three kids they're now in their 20s um you know my wife and I were raising them you you somehow think it's going to take they're going to be with you forever and once they go off to to to college or leave home to start their own lives you blink your eye and you look back and it's like where did 20 years go so that's helped me with the long-term planning you know 20 years is not actually that far and a 50-year plan is not actually that long when you look at it in the bigger context of evolution of humanity I love that um you know it's it's interesting this 2070 uh you know perspective I love that I love hearing that that's even possible and um and I think people are waking up to to this work right the Zoomer generation is so different now you know like they are they're it seems like extremely conscious and very self-aware and paying attention to all the kind of nuances that maybe the Boomers um didn't have the privilege to to pay attention to so um really big congrats on on staying the long game and I want to hear your thoughts on this uh this concept of personalized psychedelic therapy you know I was listening to a former podcast that you were on um and you spoke about this being kind of something that is uh like a a big theme that's been emerging yeah very much so so to to say it this way um really we're about psychedelic medicine and the way in which we have to bring that about is by studying One Drug at a time so MDMA is focused on MDM I mean Maps focused on MDMA for PTSD other groups are focused on psilocybin for treatment resistant depression major depressive disorders ketamine esketamine was approved for uh depression um Iain one of its uses is going to be for uh helping people go through opiate withdrawals but all of this is leading towards the place where we hope that all these different psychic medicines are available they've all made it through FDA regulatory systems and and the therapist want to be cross-trained so even though right now there's all these clinics with ketamine a lot of them are run by people that want to also incorporate MDMA once it becomes available into those clinics and then they'll incorporate psilocybin and then 5me DMT and then ibigan so where we really want to go and this may be difficult for um people to to realize in the sense that normal pharmaceutical companies you know don't want you to use products that they're competing companies are offering but that's not what we're about we're we're about what's best for the patient what's best for society what's best for the therapist and so that's going to lead toward this personalized medicine where um psychedelic therapists themselves will be cross-trained in the different modalities and they will customize a treatment program for each individual therap patient that they work with and it could have different sequences of drugs even though again our MDMA therapy is tremendously um effective um in terms of our statistical analysis of our phase three studies you know we can't say it's safe and effective until the FDA says it's approved medicine but we can say that we we do have some very remarkable results but that over time in the future I think people might get a couple MDMA experiences then they might benefit from an experience with psilocybon or a classic psychedelic and then maybe they end up with another MDMA experience to help them integrate it all or or it could be fundamentally different but that's where we're really heading is even though each of our companies is focused on one particular thing to try to take it through the ratory system it's really about bringing forth psychedelic medicine that will be personalized between uh patient and therapist I love that that makes so much sense right because I think we're all dealing with so many different um you know internal nuances and also as we're changing right coming out of the pandemic for example like people are are sort of accumulating new traumas right or combining traumas and and so I love that that's that's that's emerging so I want to switch gears and talk about something a little bit sensitive uh given the political uh climate that we're in but I want to talk about this experiment um in 2021 on the use of I believe it was iasa um so correct me if I'm wrong it might have been MDMA but I believe it was iasa and um between Jews and Arabs and what that outcome was like that thank you for asking I think that's especially important now during this conflict that's so um horrendous on all sides um it turned out that in Israel um there were uh Israeli Arabs Palestinian Arabs um and um Israelis from all different religious uh from secular to um Ultra Orthodox um that were part participating in iasa and MDMA experiences in these mixed spaces so again these are the more Progressive on both sides they're willing to be in these spaces you're particularly vulnerable when you're taking psychedelics because you're not so much focused on the outside you're more focused on the inside and researchers that we work with in Israel particularly leor Roseman who was at Imperial College who's a Israeli neuroscientist but working in Imperial and now now at exitor um took a very strong interest in noticing what was going on and thinking is this productive is this use of psychedelics in these mixed spaces actually helpful for people to uh build Bridges whereas previously they had been more fearful about people that were different from them and so there was a three-year project funded by Christian angerme and it was the first year was just interviews of everybody that were was doing this why were they doing it what was it like the second year was developing a protocol and then the third year where Lear took a group of Israelis and Palestinians to Spain for a group iasa experience and now Maps is working to develop another protocol for Israelis and Palestinians with MDMA and this is not just Israel it's for all different kind of groups that can be in Conflict uh MDMA can also be helpful for couples therapy which we need to explore scientifically but it's sort of RIT large in cultures and so there have been a couple papers that leor published on it but I'll just share one story which was about an Israeli under the influence of um iwasa and they're doing this in group setting and music is a big part of this and the person running the ceremony started playing Arabic music and this Israeli said that his first instinct was to coil this is fearful this is the music of the other this is something that he'd already always felt nervous about when he would hear it but he said under the influence of iasa he could let go and he could listen to it and then he saw the beauty in it and then he realized that we're not just you know Jews and is Arabs here that we're all humans and we're trying to find these common grounds in the midst of these different kinds of conflicts and yet it was the core sense that this music that had previously frightened him he could see the beauty in it and then he could see the common Humanity of the people that were on the you know quote other culture or other side so that's a tiny experiment with a few people but one is looking in great desperation for what can we do to respond to all the pain and suffering and all the trauma and I think it's this sense of really coming together and celebrating our common humanity and appreciating differences not being scared by them but appreciating them and trying to learn for why did people come up with a different cultural context what do they think so I I think it's a very small effort but psychedelics for conflict resolution for understanding common Humanity I think it's going to be growing as an area of research um very much so in the future I love that so much and this is also for those who are listening who um might be in a conflict zone or have access to folks in the conflict zones um to reach out to Rick or myself so that we can potentially you know help kind of facilitate bringing these types of therapies to those regions I know that Rick it's been on your mind for a while so I wanted to just make sure that we acknowledge that on this show yeah thank you for that as Meine yeah it's very it's some of our most important work I'm leaving tomorrow for Abu Dhabi and Dubai and we're I'm speaking at a conference on Mental Health integrated mental health in Abu Dhabi and we're also trying to reach out to therapists from the Arab region who are interested in the learning about how MDMA assistant therapy for PTSD can be provided um in their cultural context and and if people are interested in um attending a training program that we're going to be offering at some point somewhere in the Arab region um within 2024 amazing amazing and uh so I want to talk a little a little bit more about you know who inspires you Rick you know who are some of the greatest influences on your own journey in your own life well Stan gra I would say is my main Mentor in this area you know he's U 91 pretty amazing and he is still you know writing and talking and and is um you he's had a stroke but I would say he's probably the primary person that is really helped legitimize this whole field and inspired me um I'm also um it's it's a while he's no longer alive but this theory of change that I have was reaffirmed back in 1983 by a man who was the assistant Secretary General of the United Nations his name was Robert Mueller and he wrote an Incredible Book new genesis shaping a global spirituality and the book had a cover of the Earth from space on it and he talked about how the un has been created to help mediate conflicts between countries but a lot of those conflicts are religious-based and we do need more uh tolerance for people from different religions and his theory of change was that we needed to understand that deeper than our specific religions was this Global spirituality we're all part of this one you know incredible experiment in the universe of life on Earth um and the book was terrific didn't say anything about psychedelics and so I I wrote him a letter and said here's the Good Friday experiment here's are other things would you help us bring back psychedelic research and um he wrote back again like Stan Gruff he wrote me back and he said he would help uh and later he did so Robert Mueller's book is one and then there's another one that I'll I'll share that is incredibly inspirational that most people have forgotten about it or never heard about it but it's the meetings of the um uh African-Americans native Americans and Europeans their first meetings in North America in the 1520s and 30s and it's a fellow named Alvar nunz cabesa deaka and I would encourage he was a conquistador and this was after Cortez had um conquered the Aztecs and was in Mexico City and so Spain sent like 530 people on a new expedition to kind of link up with him and explore further areas north and they got blown off course in a hurricane and they landed they didn't know where it turned out it was in the Tampa Florida area but they thought they were in Mexico over various uh Misadventures they all died except for four of them one was an African-American and the other three were the Europeans and they were kept as slaves and they were asked to finally to do a healings the people said you know you're you're we've never seen people like you you're the only survivors you got to be of use to us so we'd like you to do these healings and these people are like well we're not healers we're military people and um and the Indians said okay we're just not going to feed you and so then they tried this healings and to their utter astonishment it worked we could say it's the placebo effect you know who who knows what it is but it worked and they kept um asking to be taken further west because they were these four people were trying to get connected back to uh Europeans to Spaniards took him eight years but they had developed a great appreciation for the Native Americans and they really had sort of conquered the country through their healings all the Native Americans were willing to follow them to do what they wanted um and then when they finally got to the west where they saw signs of burned Villages um destroyed crops you know that's where they started seeing the the slave raids from the the Spaniards and what they were doing and they actually acted on behalf the Indians to negotiate with Cortez and Cortez saw them saw their connection to the Native Americans and separated them put them in Chains and shipped three of them back to Spain in Chains and the book that is existing is by Alver Nunes cabesa deaka to the king um and so it's one of the most inspirational stories ever Henry Miller an author in America wrote an introduction to it and so it's about the real gold of cooperation of Love of healing while we look for the false gold or of just money that's not going to do what we need but this real gold of Love connection common Humanity so the story of Alvar nunz kadak is a major inspiration for me amazing amazing and what's the exact title of the book again well it's um it's sort of Adventures in the unknown America Alvar nunz cabesa Daka and it's his report to the king about what happened during the Expedition and he later redeemed himself just to say and he was sent to lead an expedition to South America he explored thousands of miles and did it without killing a single uh person that they encountered wow yeah and there's The Power Within by hany Al long is I'd say a good place for people to start the powers Within by hany along long and he wrote what he called an Interlinear which is this IDE idea that Kaba deaka had to be careful because this was during the time of the Inquisition and he had to be careful what he said to the king so this poetic Interlinear by Honey along is about what he would have written if he was free to write what he really felt so it's it's a beautiful um introduction to the story and then I think people could read if they were interested the actual report to the king amazing okay cool I've never heard of that these books so yeah it's like buried American history it's the path not taken it's what we need to know wow and you know Rick looking back on this journey you know what has surprised you the most about could be about Humanity it could be about psychedelics the the work from from Maps you know what has surprised you the most I I think what has surprised me the most is that we have managed to obtain bipartisan support you know that that was our goal the entire time but I really wasn't sure that it was possible but we have managed to really in America that's extremely polarized found a way to have the Psychedelic healing be bipartisan support I'd say that's the thing that has um amazed me the most um and it's in part strategy you know that we felt that if we can help veterans then we would be able to have support from um more um Republicans and more um you know Christian fundamentalists and all that that that by the choice of who we were helping most people that have PTSD are women with sexual abuse two-thirds of the people in our studies are women but the media gives the most attentions to the veterans but I think it's been this both conscious strategy but it's also been very surprising how well that it's actually been something that everybody could come together on because we see and I see this constantly that people from all sides of the political Spectrum all sides of religion everybody has family members or friends that are suffering that they're not quite getting the support that they need from currently available medicines and treatments and that then they need to um for Hope explore other Alternatives so you know I'm just so grateful that that is something that is the case in America that we've taken psychedelic healing out of the culture wars and and made it something that everybody can support yes yes Amen to that um so and then what do you want to tell our listeners about their well-being their Wellness like what's kind of your main takeaway or call to action that you want people to do you know today well I I'd like really for people to educate themselves I think that that's something that doesn't really cost money you can try to look at scientific papers about MDMA for PTSD or you can look at various uh books or articles but I think really people in general and and I described it for myself uh you know that I bought the propaganda so I think the most important thing now is for people just really to educate themselves about what is going on with psychedelic research what is going on with the thousands of years of use there there's an incredible book called The immortality key yes by Brian Mir rescue that that I think people might want to consider reading as part of Education it's about the Elan Mysteries that I talk about but it's also about the several hundred years in the after Jesus Christ period during the formation of the Catholic Church where these uh psychedelic rituals coexisted with uh the church until the church finally wiped them out but it's about how the early wine the claim is that the early wine used in the Catholic Services was spiked with um psychoactive psychedelic drugs and I think it makes a really good case but I I think people really should educate themselves and then people should think about um what does this mean for them personally or for family or loved ones and then go the next step I think which would be to um really look at the drug war and does that seem helpful or not and is there some way for people to support um the the emergence of these uh treatments into practice um because it's never really been about the science it's been about the politics that has blocked the research now because I mentioned the careful use of um veterans and others we have bipartisan support so the politics is favorable now but it's it's you know drug war has never been about the you know really helping people to block drug abuse it's it's always been political as well so I'd say educate yourself both about um psychedelics both historical and current research but also about the drug war and also I think about the this you one thing that's really helpful for people to it's called um clinical trials.gov so clinical trials.gov and that's the list of all the Psychedelic studies all the research actually that's going on and you can just put in a drug and a condition and you can see what's going on in your area so this gets back to your earlier question if people want to volunteer for uh psychedelic research this is a way to figure out what studies are taking place that you might qualify for and it's also just a great way to educate yourself about what research is taking place amazing amazing there so many good things to follow up on and uh we actually interviewed uh not we I actually interviewed uh Brian from the immortality key so folks can check out yeah that episode um Rick this has been so lovely I'm so grateful for your time and learned a lot from this conversation are there any resources that you can point folks to in order to learn more about you yeah I I would say um check out the maps website so maps.org you know we are looking for members so anybody wants to donate that would be great but if you look at my bio um there's a link to my dissertation from the Kennedy School government at Harvard on the regulation of the medical use of psychedelics in marijuana there's a link to the followup to the conquered Prison Experiment by ly to the Good Friday experiment that I talked about and also there's a link to my TED Talk and also another talk that I gave about my origin story so I think if people just wanted to learn about me they could go to the bio on the maps website but also there's an enormous amount of information on the maps website as well for people to learn amazing and we'll include that in the show notes that people can easily navigate uh to Maps Okay terrific amazing amazing well thank you so much for your time Rick this has been so lovely learned so much from you and uh this is a powerful conversation thank you yes yeah I think we're we're getting the data but people need to hear the stories and so I really appreciate what you're doing a thank you and for our audience thanks for joining and for listening in this episode we learn about the Journey of psychedelics and maps with Rick doblin you could tune in to gateways to Awakening where we host one-on-one conversations with leading experts in Wellness well-being and spirituality thanks again what would you like to see change in your life and what is the biggest obstacle that you're facing now I run a five-week program at the inner knowing school for serious individuals who are ready to take the next step in their personal and professional lives I will personally be coaching a small group of individuals a number of practical tools and Frameworks for creating an intuition practice and for self-mastery you can find more at The interner Knowing school.com I have a master certification in intuition medicine and I've condensed 10 plus years of experience and research navigating how to harness your energy and intuition and an easy to access live curated course now as someone who's helped countless creatives entrepreneurs and many who are just plain stuck open doors of possibility they never thought exist Ed I've seen this strategy transform people's inner states and external reality and the best part is that you'll Skyrocket your output and unlock your creative genius I'll work with you weekly live to overcome your limiting beliefs and show you how to manage your energy instead of your time I'll teach you how to create Clarity processes develop your intuition based on some of the top tools and Frameworks that I've developed and you'll get access to guided meditations and visualizations not available anywhere else this method is so effective that even if you don't have that much time or if you think that you might not be ready this will work for you you can check out the link in the show notes to join the waiting list and you can check out what past clients had to say about the program wishing you all many blessings ahead

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: BkEU7avsBT8 (https://youtu.be/BkEU7avsBT8) ===

KENNEDY: WELCOME BACK, HERE IS SOMETHING TO B ECSTATIC ABOUT, CALIFORNIA BIOPHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY SAID THEY ARE SEEING POSITIVE RESULTS USING ILLEGAL DRUG MDMA AS A TREATMENT FOR PTSD, WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT IT ON THIS SHOW AND ON MY PODCAST, I WILL SCREAM IT FROM MOUNTAIN TOPS PEOPLE SHOULD HAVE ACCESS TO TREATMENT, IT CAN TREAT EVERYTHING FROM EATING DISORDERS TO PTSD. THEY HOPE THAT FDA AGREES, IS THIS TIME TO GET WHAT IS CONSIDERED A PARTY DRUG OFF OF THE STREET INTO YOUR LOCAL PHARMACY. >> JOINING ME NOW, FOUNDER OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR PSYCHEDELIC STUDIES. RICK IS BACK WELCOME BACK. >> HELLO THANK YOU. KENNEDY: I HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH A WOMAN THIS WEEKEND OVER DINNER, SHE TOLD ME A HEARTBREAKING STORY, HE LOST HER BROTHER, SHE WAS ALMOST SUICIDAL, SHE HAD NOWHERE TO TURN, SHE FELT HER LIFE WAS NO LONGER WORTH LIVING, AND FELT NO JOY. SHE WENT TO AN MD MAGUIDED THERAPY SESSION, SHE SAID IT CHANGED HER BRAIN, AND SHE WANTS MORE PEOPLE TO HAVE ACCESS TO THIS YOU HAVE BEEN WORKING FOR DECADES, NOW YOUR RESEARCH IS IN PHASE 3 OF FDA CLINICAL TRIALS, YOU JUST HAD YOUR SECOND STUDY COMPLETED. >> WELL, THERE ARE HUNDREDS OF FOR PROFIT PSYCHEDELIC COMPANIES WE STARTED 36 AND A HALF YEARS AGO, WE HAVE FINISHED PHASELY. SIGNIFICANT OF SECOND CONFIRMTARY STUDY QUITE LIKELY THAT FDA WILL APPROVE THE THERAPY FOR PTSD, WE THINK AROUND APRIL OR MAY 2024, AND THE WHOLE FIELD OF PSYCHEDELIC ASSISTED THERAPY, THEY ARE ALSO VERY LIKELY TO SUCCEED. BUT ONLY WHEN COMBINED WITH THERAPY, I WANT TO MAKE THAT IMPORTANT POINT, IT IS NOT THE DRUG ITSELF, BUT THE THERAPY THAT IS PRIMARY ACTIVE TREATMENT, AND MEDICINE MAKES THE THERAPY MORE EFFECTIVE, THE STEER STORY ABOUT THAT WOMAN, THAT IS INCREDIBLE THAT DOES PRODUCE NEUROBLASTISITY, YOU ARE CHANGING YOUR BRAIN. >> WHAT I HAVE READ, BASED ON YOUR WORK AND CASE STUDIES, YOU KNOW PEOPLE HAVE BEEN SHUFFLED AROUND FROM DIFFERENT THERAPEUTICS AND TYPES OF THERAPY. YOU NAME IT FOR YEARS AND YEARS, I TALKED WITH MARCUS CAPONE WHO RUNS AN ORGANIZATION, CALLED VETS THEY RAISE MONEY FOR VETERANS WITH PTSD TO GO TO MEXICO TO HAVE THESE KINDS OF THERAPY, BUT THE RESULTS ARE SO PROFOUND. IT IS SO INCREDIBLY I'M -- IMMORAL THAT OUR GOVERNMENT IS STANDING IN THE WAY OF THIS PEOPLE ARE DEPRIVED FROM TREATMENT. >> I AGREE. A LOT DON'T REALIZE MDMA WAS A THERAPY DRUG BEFORE IT BECAME ECSTASY AS A PARTY DRUG. WE'RE TRYING TO BRING IT BACK TO A THERAPY DRUG, THERE ARE OVER A MILLION VETERANS THAT ARE RECEIVING DISABILITY PAYMENTS FROM THE V.A. FOR PTSD, IT COSTS V.A. AND NEIGHBORHOOD OF 17 BILLION A YEAR, JUST FOR DISABILITY ENTERTAINMENT PAYMENTS, WE HAVE SOMEONE FROM VIETNAM WAR, WITH PTSD FROM THAT IN OUR STUDIES AND WAS ABLE TO GET BETTER. YOU COULD BE STUCK FOR A HALF CENTURY ALMOST IT IS STILL POSSIBLE TO GET BETTER, IT WOULD BE A COST SAVING FOR GOVERNMENT AND REDUCING OF SUFFERING, BEEN FOREVER SINCE 1995, IS WHEN WE TRIED TO OFFER TO PAY FOR STUDIES IN V.A., NOT UNTIL OC 12 OF 2121 THAT FIRST VETERAN RECEIVED MDMA IN THE V.A. FOR PTSD THAT WAS SUCCESSFUL. >> GOOGLE RICK DOBLIN, SEE WHAT THEY DO, CALL YOUR CONGRESSMAN OR WOMAN, DO WHATEVER IT TAKES TO GET MORE FOCUS MORE FUNDING, LET'S MOVE THIS TO END ZONE. >> INVITE PEOPLE TO PEOPLE'S WORLD LARGEST CONFERENCE ON PSYCHEDELICS IN DENVER. KENNEDY: MAYBE WE'LL GO THERE AND DO A STORY ON IT. THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOUR TIME. >> THAT WOULD BE GRE

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: waI4JW3Pf14 (https://youtu.be/waI4JW3Pf14) ===

mental health conditions contribute to physical health problems as well as you can see. So we have a kind of social media, you know, everything's got its downside. Social media has also increased uh anxiety particularly in young people and the more time they spend on social media, the more problems they have with anxiety and depression. So we're we're at a mental health crisis. We've heard about that this morning. Um, and in the history of sort of 1986 since I started MAPS, there's been several other nonprofits that have been started. The Beckley Foundation, the Council on Spiritual Practices, Heft, and collectively, we've raised about $300 million in donations. But just in the last four years, over$4 billion has been invested in psychedelic pharmaceutical companies. Now, they're more for-profit companies. there. In general, my big concern is they're trying to minimize the amount of therapy and focus more on the drug, but there's an enormous amount of research going on in a range of different psychedelics. Um, and this just demonstrates again that the the number of publications is rising with psychedelics and the number of companies that are both public and private is just enormous. So, we we are really in a renaissance of psychedelic research. The fact that we even could be here in the Prague Castle talking about this and people aren't um running away in fear is is terrific. Um and so this I want to uh attribute this to Josh Hardman and to psychedelic Alpha. This just gives you this sense of um how much is going on. So this is a bullseye chart. The things in the center are uh drugs psychedelics that have been approved as medicines. The only thing there really is esetamine and then the inner circle is phase three studies then phase two studies phase one and then sort of pre-clinical and work. So there's just um an opportunity that is more research going on now than is taking place u at the height of the 1960s. So we're way beyond what what we've ever been before in the history. Um this was really the beginning of the work with psychedelics for war related trauma and this was uh or for PTSD in any kind. So this was Dr. Bastians in the ne Netherlands started 1961 and this is for survivors of the concentration camps who had trauma and this was LSD assisted therapy for concentration camp syndrome and shviti is a book by an Israeli Holocaust survivor who was an eloquent writer but he also went to do LSD therapy and this is his account of his four um LSD experiences and LSD is very effective to bring things to the surface, but it doesn't have the fear reduction properties of of MDMA. So, this kind of work can be very helpful, but it's also very very challenging and and Eric can tell you more about Dr. Bastian's and this work. Um, so what is the therapy look like? The actual therapy is about this um alliance between the patient and the therapist. When you look at psychotherapy outcome research, what you find is that the most important factor is not the kind of therapy. It's the relationship between the therapist and the patient called the therapeutic alliance. And so that's a sense of trust, empathic support that you learn to trust each other and you trust in this process of whatever emerges. The essence of our therapeutic approach is that we are trying to help patients heal themselves. We're not the healer. we're not imposing things on them and so we respond to what's emerging. Uh we all know that in our dreams things come to us sort of um according to what issues we're having or what we're thinking about and it's the same with psychedelics and so there's it's a emotional logic not necessarily predictable ahead of time. So um certain kind of exper of therapies for PTSD like prolonged exposure you focus on one index trauma your worst trauma and you go over and over and over and if you do other traumas you're kind of evading this one bigger trauma. Um but that's not how we look at it. We look at this wisdom of the psyche. Whatever is emerging um is what we support and it can emerge in the body. You know Bessel Vandervolk has written this book the body keeps the score. It can emerge in in pains and feelings, not necessarily connected to a story. Um, and we have this belief in the process that that we support what's emerging. And so, um, we've done two phase three studies. These were not enough for the FDA to say yes. They didn't say no. They said not yet. So, we will see what's going to happen. But, um, this is our basic approach. Now when we developed this we did not um because psychedelics were so stigmatized there was so much that was controversial I felt that what we had to do was work with the hardest patients and get the best results. So we weren't looking at this idea of economically what do we get just good enough in order to get it approved. We had to work with the um again we we enroll people that have attempted suicide. We enroll people high on the dissociation scale and the therapy itself was 42 hours of therapy with two therapists and usually we use a male female team but not always sometimes two women occasionally two men and it's because often people who develop PTSD from trauma often have had earlier traumas as well that make them more vulnerable and so to have like a well functioning parental kind of male female team plus people look at things differently and and it's an eight-hour session and the real emphasis is on both the preparation and the integration. It's not just the experience but it's three MDMA sessions eight hours long. So it's very and and we give an initial dose and then two hours later one and a half to two and a half hours later we give half the initial amount and that's to extend the duration. There's been some really interesting research recently by a woman Gul Dolan at Johns Hopkins and UC Berkeley that is talking about neuroplasticity and what she has shown is that psychedelics open up this critical period of this ability to rewire your brain and the longer you're in the psychedelic state the longer the period of neuroplasticity lasts. So, this sort of just came out later, but we felt that the eight hour session is better than the five- hour session. And we do the supplemental dose. And the first session is 80 milligrams followed by 40. And then people have the option the second session to go up to 120 milligrams followed by 60 or stay at the 80 followed by 40. And around n over 90% go up and over 90% keep this dose for the third session. And then this is contrasted compared to therapy with inactive placebo. And there are a fair number of people that with the inactive placebo that are not really sure if it's not a 100% that everybody can tell the difference. So pretty much 90% of the people that get the um MDMA or more are sure they got the MDMA. Um, and there's around 20 25% of the people that have the inactive placebo that either think they got the MDMA or uh aren't sure what they got, but and there's 12 90minute non-drug psychotherapy sessions, three for preparation and three for integration after each one. So, we published the first one in Nature Medicine. And what we showed is therapy with no MDMA um was almost a third, 32% no longer had PTSD. So, this is pretty comparable to the traditional non-drug psychotherapies. Um, but when you add MDMA, it's more than twice as good. 67% no longer have PTSD at the two-month follow-up. And another 21% had what's called clinically significant u reductions in PTSD symptoms. So, they were called responders. So, we had 88% response rate. Um, and the results demonstrated durability. Now from a safety point of view um mostly um acute transitory non-serious muscle tightness decreased appetite nausea things like that um there's no evidence of neurotoxicity although that some people have probably heard about MDMA causing holes in your brain um those are doctorred fake uh brain scans um the second one we published we moved to moderate to severe the first was just severe PTSD Um, and this one the therapist had learned after the first phase three study. So now we got 47 almost half the people no longer had PTSD from the therapy without any MDMA at all, which is absolutely astonishing. And so the therapeutic method itself and the eight hours and the trust and the support and the prep and integration really make a big difference. But when you add MDMA, it goes up to 71.2%. Similar kind of safety data. Um and this is a big factor in um the dropout rate was incredibly low. Um one out of 53 in the second phase three study dropped out who received MDMA and um eight people dropped out of the placebo. They but contrast this to a study that was done by the VA, the Veterans Administration. Took them six years to do 916 veterans and they compared prolonged exposure with cognitive processing therapy. And what they showed was that more than half, 55.8% dropped out of the study from prolonged exposure because the therapy itself was retraumatizing to be constantly exposed over and over your index your worst trauma and cognitive processing therapy was almost 50%. So what this points to is just that we need new treatment approaches and that the traditional therapies are really very challenging. the the biggest area of research just beginning now is group therapy. Um we started at the Portland, Oregon VA and this was going to be groups of um six um PTSD patients with four therapists and they were going to get an individual session first and then get a group session and after they did two courts of six they realized that they all wanted a third session. So they changed it. So the third session is also a group session and the results of this are are soon to be published. They were really promising. Um this was a study that was done in Israel also group therapy. These were um veterans um who had a very highly traumatizing job. These undercover combat veterans and this was um exploring a little bit of a difference where first two sessions were individual and then the third was a group. And this is also um for therapists for six u veterans. This is to see about scaling. But this is a study that's just going to start soon. This is going to be u the only study in the world now that is directly comparing individual versus group therapy. It's going to be about 108 people and it's going to experiment with seven uh people in the group and then with four therapists. Um so to speak specifically about working with with veterans and we've got a fair number of studies that are taking place inside the VA. Um this one is a little bit frustrating. This shows that in since 1995 um I was offering money to the VA to study MDMA therapy and it kept resisting and resisting and it wasn't until October 12th, 2021 um 26 years before the first patient, the first veteran received MDMA therapy inside the VA by VA therapists. And this was Shannon Remick and Ali Kaggel. Um and it finally happened and that sort of opened the door. Um now there's a series of other studies. This is going to be um cognitive processing therapy directly compared to MDMMA assisted therapy at the PaloAlto VA. Um this is at the West LA VA. This is using an active placebo dampetamine with our therapy. Um this is really important called cognitive behavioral conjoin therapy. And what this is is um in a way it's like couples therapy. It's what we heard this morning is that the veterans, the people that have the PTSD, it doesn't just affect them, it affects the families. And so this was developed inside the VA by Candace Monson at the Boston VA. And it's where you bring the veteran with PTSD and their partner into the therapy and they both receive um the therapy and then we've tested it out where both received the MDMA and the results were better than anything they got before both in reduction of PTSD symptoms and in strength of the relationship. So this is sort of expanding a little bit beyond the designated patient to the family. And now there's studies that are com combining MDMA with prolonged exposure. And this has taken place at um San Diego and it's also going to be at Emory University. Um and Rachel Yehuda at the Bronx VA is now going to do a little bit more of dose optimization where our phase three protocol was three sessions, but this will be one to five and sort of customized for each person. And then this is in active duty soldiers. This is a major breakthrough that uh the Congress allocated $10 million to the Department of Defense and 4.9 went to um a group led by Aaron Wolf Gang that is at Walter Reed and this is going to be with active duty soldiers and this is combining uh MDMA assisted therapy with ACT acceptance and commitment therapy. This is going to start early next year. And then there's this one combining MDMA with prolonged exposure. This is at Emory and Strongstar in San Diego. So this is also going to be starting. So I think this acceptance by the military for active duty soldiers and also by the VA is is really moving us forward into really understanding war related trauma and and also um potentially helping if they can scale it up. And this is um uh bipartisan support. Working with the veterans has got us bipartisan support. So Dan Krenshaw is a former Navy Seal and what he said is psychedelics don't change the personality of veterans. It's just like they've had a reset. I think that's really important because the fear was psychedelics in the 60s and it's the hippies and it's against Vietnam and if you take psychedelics now you're a pacifist and what he's saying is it doesn't really do that. And then this is um Brigadier General Lori Sutton. Um she developed the center of excellence at the Department of Defense for studying PTSD. When it comes to the health and well-being of those who serve, we should leave our politics at the door and not be afraid to follow the data. So I think we're at a incredible opportunity to move forward into understanding and treating war related trauma with the recognition again that the most people that have PTSD are women from sexual abuse. So thank you. [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: b20jIuCZO6I (https://youtu.be/b20jIuCZO6I) ===

[Music] Rick doblin is the founder and president of the multidisciplinary association for psychedelic studies AKA Maps he's going to be here in Austin talking about psychedelic assisted therapy the past the present and yes even the future of something that may be legal before too long he has panel discussions on Friday March 8th and Saturday March 9th for info to get tickets or a badge to those events go to sxsw.com and to check out more of what Maps has to offer all the great research and work and knowledge you can get there go to maps.org and Rick is also going to be a part of the Texas Eclipse Festival coming up in April we may get into that before it's all said and done Rick thank you so much for the time how you doing today I'm doing great Trey I'm here in Miami and we have a bunch of events here and raising money for group therapy research that is part of the name of the game at this point and uh you've obviously been at this game for a long time now started all the way back in 1972 here we are in 2024 I know 50 years uh feels like a lot it's more than my lifetime at this current juncture are you happy with h where things stand after uh more than 50 years of uh just putting that nose to the grindstone and trying to help people out in the process well I'm I I say I think it's better to say I'm astonished I mean I never thought that there would be hundreds of for-profit psychedelic companies and you know Maps has raised about 150 million in donations but the for-profits have raised um several billion more than two billion dollars so there's an enormous amount of money going into psychedelics um so in addition to though that astonishment I'm also worried that we're just going to see traditional Pharma techniques and strategies come from all these investors and patents and blocking generics and bad behavior and trying to minimize therapy so I'm both um astonished and delighted by where we're at and also worried and concerned at the same time yeah we're going to talk about that a little bit more later on because that is a current challenge I think there's a couple of other challenges too that are worth addressing first though I wanted to provide a little bit of a primer for people who may be listening on the podcast or radio show right now who hear the word psychedelics and it just freaks them out immediately there is a lot of good research that has gone into a number of different psychedelics that show immense benefit for things like depression anxiety PTSD so I'd like to uh you if you don't mind to give a little bit of a rundown of some of these drugs that I'm going to list and just uh tell the people just why there is uh s such potential V benefit with some of these things and various issues that uh that present themselves that people struggle with for a long time so let's go ahead and start uh with something that I think is finally starting to turn the corner after the uh William Randolph Hurst era really set it back in the 1920s and 30s and that would be cannabis what are some of the potential medicinal benefits of cannabis Rick well I I should add that one of our supporters uh who's supporting the Psychedelic community at large is Austin Hurst oh really yes yes well thank thank you for uh for trying to walk that one back a little bit Austin yeah yeah um yeah kids and grandkids of some of these um early people are really um you know more open-minded in a lot of different ways um so cannabis um there was an article uh that appeared yesterday in the Washington post about the FDA and our struggles with the FDA to do cannabis research so you know there's somewhere like 39 states which have medical marijuana there's over 20 states have have marijuana legalization I think there's and yet the FDA the same group of the FDA that has been open to our work with MDMA and open to other work with psychedelics is blocking our research with cannabis so it's just um outrageous uh we have a 122.9 million Grant from the state of Michigan and when Michigan legalized cannabis the initiative said that they had to put $40 million 20 million a year for two years into Research into veterans uh mental health and suicide prevention with cannabis in v in FDA approved studies so we've been trying to do that other people have been trying to do that and the FDA is blocking us from studying smoked marijuana and the FDA is blocking us from studying vaporized marijuana and I think here's a clue as to why they're doing this they entire critique of vaporized marijuana that we got from the FDA was completely missing the whole point it was about isolated cannaboids in vape pens with oils that do have some health issues but we weren't even talking about that at all we were talking about the flour in a vaporizer like the packs where it just heats up the flow there's no isolated cannabinoids there's no oils there's nothing like that so I no combustion that has a carcinogenic effect too correct well even if there's combustion there is no evidence that cannabis leads to lung cancer so that there are anti-tumor properties in the the cannabinoid some of them have anti-tumor properties so we're not exactly sure why it is but there is no evidence that cannabis leads to lung cancer and that's been demonstrated by decades and Decades of research by Dr Donald tashkin at UCLA funded by the national in on drug abuse so even the national on drug abuse has given up the claim that cannabis causes lung cancer so there's the the where we're at with cannabis is because the FDA has been blocking cannabis research and before that it was the DEA where there was a monopoly on the supply of federally legal cannabis that could be used in FDA proof studies because FDA is a federal agency and it can only work with federally legal cannabis so all the the Cannabis that's state legal in multiple different states uh cannot be used by the FDA because it's not federally legal and this one supplier at the University of Mississippi supplied under contract to the National Inc of drug abuse and naida would provide it to researchers but it was only for research it could not be used for commercial purposes and so with the FDA when you move to phase three which is the final stage of the studies where you have to do uh double blind Placebo controlled randomized controlled studies to demonstrate safety and advocacy you have to use the exact same drug that you want to Market so since the Monopoly was on naida funded marijuana that could not be used for phase three because it could not be used for commercial purposes that's how the FDA and the DEA and the federal government conspired you could say to block cannabis research now it's only been a couple years that we've been able to overturn this Monopoly I mean map started working on that in 2000 so it's taken 24 years or last year actually they finally gave some licenses to Sous sisly and some others to grow cannabis domestically but for our project we're talking about importing 20% THC from Canada so I think the one of the things that was so amusing to me was that when we had a meeting with the FDA in person to talk about the blockages where they won't let us study smoked marijuana they won't let us study vaporized marijuana um the woman that's the head of the division of Psychiatry said I hate this term medical marijuana because it's not medical until we say it is and I'm like well you know that's pretty good you're blocking us from doing the research and you're saying you're the only ones that can say it's medical well look at all these states and look at all these patients and look at all these doctors they think it's medical so it it's cannabis is in a very um interesting position um the problem I would say of the FDA blockage is that medical marijuana patients have to pay for it themselves it's not covered by Insurance yeah because Insurance wants you to prove it through the FDA and if you haven't proven it then why should they cover it and if you can't go through the FDA then they're not going to cover it so if we can make cannabis through the FDA for um PTSD um then it can be covered now I should say that from our point of view cannabis is pallative not Curative and that it just controls the symptoms people who use cannabis for ptsc tend to use it every day or maybe they'll skip some days but they use it to help them sleep they use it to keep them present focused um it can be very useful and there's a lot of people that want it but it it doesn't actually get to the root cause of the traumatic memories that are problematic the way we think we can do with MDMA assisted therapy for PTSD or other people think they they can do with ketamine psilocybin ibigan other things as well so what we're trying to do is really open the door not just to our research with cannabis for PTSD but for everybody who wants to study cannabis in any different clinical condition with the goal of moving through the FDA and then making it into something that's covered by insurance and yet because of the blockage of FDA we see all the states just saying hey federal system is blocked we need State reform and that's what we have with cannabis let's talk a little bit about MDA mdna right now because in a lot of ways this is the one that is most important for this overall fight because it is furthest down the road with dfda so what has the research from maps and elsewhere shown about the potential uh medicinal therapeutic benefits of MDMA well let's say that I started maps in 1986 so 72 is when I was devoting my life to psychedelics um to try to you know help people feel interconnected and then you know have that be a basis for peace and appreciating differences rather than killing people for differences um 84 is when I started a nonprofit before maps to try to protect the therapeutic use of MDMA because it was clear that the uh MDMA was a therapy drug under the code name Adam but it had also sort of escaped into theer into um sort of recreational contexts under the name ecstasy and so it was doing that in public at the time that Nancy Reagan and Ronald Reagan were u in office and uh just say no and escalation of the drug war so it was clear that um the federal government was going to come after uh MDMA at some point ecstasy at some point so we formed we as the underground therapists and the the Psychedelic researchers above ground and others um formed this group to try to protect the therapeutic use of MDMA and so we ended up um being a head of the game and so 84 is when the DEA moved to criminalize MD may we sued them in the appeals court I mean excuse me in the DEA administrative law judge hearings we won the judge said it should be schedule three available as a medicine but illegal as ecstasy um and the DEA rejected the recommendations we um sued a couple times in the appeals courts one twice and eventually the de lawyers figured out how to criminalize it but while this was all going on I realized that um we needed to they were going to block it and we needed to go through the FDA so 86 is when I started maps from ' 86 to ' 92 we had five different protocols all rejected from Harvard Medical School UC San Francisco u university of um Arizona Albuquerque and and other academic research PL all all was shot shut down and there had been multiple Decades of psychedelic research being shut down so in ' 92 is when the FDA had a advisory committee and decided that they would open the door to psychedelic research so through the '90s we did what's called phase one studies these are dose response safety studies where you try to understand um what happens at various Doses and what are the safety issues and then you try to figure out what it might be for because this was again in healthy volunteers um we started the work with PTSD in U 1999 in Spain in 2000 um and then it was um unfortunately shut down that was for PTSD for women survivors of rape and sexual assault and it was shut down for political reasons by the Madrid anti-drug Authority um we started in the US finally in 2003 um and till the end of 2016 we did what's called phase two pilot studies where you check out which kind of PTSD patients does it work in what are the doses is it one session two sessions three sessions what are your measures all of that and we got great information and November 29th 2016 we went to the FDA and said it's called an end of phase two meeting and so we did that and FDA said yes you can go to phase three and so we then engaged at an 8-month process called special protocol assessment where you negotiate every aspect of the protocol design and the safety information the statistical analysis plan all of that the goal is to get an agreement letter which we did get so U what an agreement letter generally means is that fda's legally obligated to approve MDMA or whatever the drug it is if the agreed upon protocol gets statistically significant evidence of efficacy if there's no new safety problems and if the data is gathered properly so in 2018 is when we started phase three and in 2021 we published the results in nature Medicine of our first phase 3 study and at the end of 2021 the journal science um comes up with a list of the top 10 scientific breakthroughs in the entire world and science said that our study was one of the top 10 scientific breakthroughs the the results were excellent but also I think we got this award mainly because it was we're the front runner of the entire field of psychedelic assisted therapy and they were wanting to point to that um it was particularly satisfying for us because 20 years before in 2002 um science had published this paper that was completely bogus they never should have published it and it was about claiming that MDMA um given to primates hurt dopamine and could cause Parkinson's in humans and that editor of science put out a press release saying taking MDMA was like playing Russian roulette with your brain it didn't make sense and we challenged it and eventually after a year of trying to replicate the results the scientist said um oops we mistakenly administered methamphetamine instead of MDMA and if you know methamphetamine is stronger than MDMA so they're giving um methamphetamine and MDMA Doses and they knocked off some of the primates from overdose which we had done primate studies before and none had died so it should have been a signal but in any case they had to withdraw that and that was sort of the high Watermark of fears of MDB neurotoxicity and so for all those years later in um 2021 for science to say MDMA researched top 10 scientific breakthroughs in the world was particularly satisfying um and then um in September of of last year 2023 we published the second phase three studies um also in nature medicine and the results are um extremely statistically significant we had an excellent safety record and to give you a sense of what the results were um we felt that because of the stigma of psychedelics it was necessary for us to work with the hardest cases so we enroll people that have previously attempted suicide onethird of the almost onethird of the people in our first study with severe PTSD had what's called positive behavior meaning you either had attempted to kill yourself or you had done something in to move in that direction like you went to the hardware store and bought a rope to hang yourself but then you didn't hang yourself or you went to a j bridge and you thought about jumping off but you didn't do that or or whatever so we worked with the hardest cases with severe PTSD people had PTSD an average of 14 years onethird had PTSD over 20 years we had people with PTSD from any cause and they had almost all of them had tried Psychotherapy pharmacotherapy one or the other or both and had still had severe PTSD for extended periods of time and it's uh 42 hours of therapy so it's labor intensive it's three eight hour sessions one month apart with and we have two people one has to be licensed as a therapist the second is got to have a bachelor's degree and thousand hours of Behavioral Health experience could be more like an intern or a student um and within these three eight hour sessions we also have 12 90minut non-drug Psychotherapy sessions so basically really it's important to think about this this is really therapy the MDMA makes the therapy more effective but it's not here the treatment is the MDMA this is different than esketamine which bravado which has been approved for depression but without any therapy at all and it doesn't work as well as when you combine it with therapy all right so there's 12 90minut sessions three before the first MDMA session for the preparation build the Therapeutic Alliance and three of these 90-minute meetings after each MDMA session for integration and then the primary outcome measure is two months after the last experimental session so one group gets um all of this therapy with a pill that has MDMA the other group gets all this therapy with a pill that has nothing in it and so what we showed is the people that got the pill with nothing in it um 32% of them no longer had PTSD at the two-month followup which is amazing these are people that had tried all sorts of other things severe PTSD 14 years on average and I I think it means that our therapeutic approach by itself is um can be quite effective um you know a lot of um Well here here's a good example the veterans administ ation did a study it took them six or so years to do 916 veterans and they compared two psychotherapies prolonged exposure and cognitive processing therapy and what they showed is that roughly 50% of the people in the study dropped out because the therapy was so ret traumatizing because you talk about your trauma over and over and you're in these one hour meetings and you you got to get there you got to relax a bit takes a few minutes to do that then you start talk talking about stuff and then you got to think okay now I got to get out and and walk down the street and you know now I have to pull myself back together and and the whole time they're just talking to you about this one index trauma in prolonged exposure so there's major major dropouts and the results that you get from these studies are only the people that made it through uh we had hardly any dropouts uh our second phase three study was 2% um the first one was about a little bit more than 10% so people stay in the study and so what we show those is when you add MDMA instead of 32% now it's 2/3 no longer have PTSD and another one 21% have clinically significant reductions of PTSD symptoms meaning that they're responders but they still have PTSD so maybe they could have used a fourth session or over more time they'll learn we try to teach people how to heal themselves so that they can deal with further traumas that come up without having a relapse so we SED teach people you you can process these emotions you don't need to run away and cover them up with alcohol or feel overwhelming we can help you the MDMA helps you the therapeutic context helps you the second phase three study was moderate to severe PTSD and with that group um it was around 46% got no longer had PTSD um in the control group therapy without MDMA pretty incredible but when you add MDMA it's 72% and another 15% was uh responders that had clinically significant reductions of PTSD symptoms so we have 88 or 87% response rate doesn't work for everybody and then the safety issue is really important we had very much um acute temporary transient non-serious U side effects during the MDMA muscle tension sweating jaw clenching different different things that faded with the MDMA um and we didn't have cardiovascular problems or you know we didn't have any now these are screen people we screen out people that have uncontrolled hypertension sure um but we we had um no evidence really that people went on to become ecstasy abusers um and in the first study we had one woman try to kill herself twice and fortunately did not succeed other times H and one woman had such severe suicidal ideation that she checked herself into a hospital not to kill herself both of these women were in the control group not in the MDMA group so we didn't have any of that kind of activity in the MDMA group and then people a lot of people have heard oh suicide Tuesdays after you take MDMA you're depleted your serotonin depleted and you go through a depression um we did not see that anymore in the MDMA group than in the control group it's it's struggling with PTSD that U impacts people so I think the part of the reason though is that we give it to people at 10: in the morning it's a 10hour session till 6 p.m. often they can sleep that night they don't take it with alcohol they don't take it with any other drugs it's pure and then um they rest and then the next day we say rest the next day don't have any appointments and we're going to have the therapist come back and talk to you to do the integration so I think that's what really is um influencing this this sense that we don't have this suicide Tuesdays blue Mondays things things like that so on December 11th we submitted all of this information to the FDA and what's called a new drug application we I should distinguish to say that Maps is the nonprofit that I started in ' 86 and in 2014 we started u the maps public benefit Corp which is a public benefit for profit Pharma company with the thought that it could be um entirely owned by the nonprofit and then it was public benefit and then that would ensure good behavior um unfortunately Ely uh I mentioned the rise of all these for-profit psychedelic companies um that made us made it more difficult for us to raise more donations because people are like why should I donate look at all these people make trying to make money why don't I just want to invest so we had to take investors fortunately we have the best kind of investors which are called impact investors they're not investors like uh your biotech uh DC firms that want 10x want in and out want you to you know 10x their money in you know several years and so we have people that care about making money their money back but they also really care about the impact on the world so that that's really good so we submitted all this information on um December 11th February 9th the FDA said we accept the file and that starts a six-month um review process we've been given what's called priority review so by August 11th the FDA has to tell lyos uh they changed the name from map public benefit Corp um I raised a wolf when I was um 21 to 23 uh Alaskan timber wolf that I got from the Humane Society and that was a big part of my personality so lyos is the Greek word for Wolf so the the name is a slight nod to me into the origins of the company um but by August 11th we're hoping to hear from FDA about whether they approve prescription use of MDMA assistant therapy for PTSD so we're going to push ahead a little bit now we don't have time to go over all these different drugs so you're just going to have to go to maps.org to learn more about LSD iasa I did want to ask about ibaan though because we obviously are dealing with an opioid EP epidemic in this country and ibigan is a a massive potential solution to all of this uh what has research bore out with regards to this and what exactly is IO gain well there's a a root the iboga plant and the root is um contains the chemical Iain but it's been used for quite a long time centuries and centuries and Centuries by the buti religion in gabone and so it's uh you know as we see the Native American church has um peyote as part of their Sacrament other groups have iasa as part of their sacraments mushrooms have been used in religious ceremonies and so iwas you know they they all have this kind of religious context ioga also has the same thing it's been used by the buedi but it is a psychedelic drug and in the 60s um there was some people that were LSD dealers who were also addicted to heroin and they wanted to try another psychedelic uh ibigan and what they found is that it um cut through the withdrawal from the opiates No Other Drug does that that we know of and it also gives you a profound psychological experience you could look at the roots of addiction why is it that you're sort of running away into addictive behavior so um the DEA busted these LSD deal it wasn't the DEA then but the police busted these LSD dealers and they saw oh they had Iain let's criminalize that too so Iain is illegal in the United States but it's legal in Canada Mexico England most of the world it's not illegal it is not a drug of abuse and as a result so many um in people with opiate overdose or opiate uh dependence problems but also with PTSD with depression with traumatic brain injury particularly veterans have not been getting the help that they need at the VA so there's a group called vets Marcus and Amber Capone and they've now raised money to fund about more than 800 people I think mostly special operators from the military Navy Seals and others to go down to Mexico for Iain and then at the end of it it's like a four 5day experience they also receive 5 Meo DMT which is from the Sonoran Desert toad it's the most power ful psychedelic that we're aware of um and so several people a bunch of these people um who went down to uh amb life a clinic there um that works with vets went to Stanford and had brain scans and stuff before and after and what they showed is that the iban really does um restore certain neural connections for people that had TBI it can be very very effective this is now called neuroplasticity and that happens with all the psychedelics as far as we can tell it helps you to actually rewire your brain which also points to how serious this is if you take it in a bad circumstance where you don't feel safe you can end up worse off so it's again it's the context that really determines it but with a 100,000 plus people dying from opiate overdoses what's been inspiring to me is that the state of Kentucky which was getting roughly $840 million from the Pharma industry for the terrible d damage that they did for the promoting the opiate epidemic Purdue Pharma and other companies that marketed intermediaries all sorts of U even some of the um BCG I think I'm not exactly sure but which some of these Consulting companies gave terrible you know advice which barely puts a dent in the profits that they made throughout that horrible time that's true that is very true but at least it's something yeah and so Kentucky said um well for a while working out of the Attorney General's office Brian hubard started saying that they would put $42 million into Iain research not just into providing services but trying to work for more the most effective treatment that they had heard of um in the end a new attorney general squash that but other um States may follow through so what we're hoping to do at Maps is to use not investor money but public money and donor money we'd need about 80 to 100 million over four to 5 years to develop Iain into a medicine through the FDA but do it completely open science with U no patents and turn it immediately into a generic but that's something that we cannot do if we get money from investors because investors are like oh you know generics don't make that much money well which is the point actually to try to get it more widely available because it's a national crisis and an international crisis and iboga and ibigan um have remarkable properties for PTSD for depression for traumatic brain injury for addiction for you know I have done it one time 1985 and it was one of the most powerful and profound psychedelic experiences of my life it was one of the most difficult I guess that helps explain why I haven't done it since then but um I think it's the next most important thing and and to to say um another sort of political overlay which is you know there's a lot of people in America that have lost hope lost hope in America lost hope in their prospects for being in the middle class lost trust in the administration lost trust in in all of our institutions um and they're they're often um out of fear and anxieties that they're able to be um they're in Despair and so there's actually what is called deaths of Despair which are deaths from U alcoholism suicide and u overdoses and so these deaths of Despair take place more in not not only but but in a lot of rural areas that have lost jobs that are facing cultural change so I think if we can bring Iain to bear on where people are having these um struggles with obat dependence and other things that we can help um people to both work through the the dependence have these psychological experiences that are really important and we can um in many cases help people feel connected one of the big things about despair is you feel disconnected you're you're all by yourself you're not and so when you you have these classic psychedelic experiences that sort of weaken your ego sense but connect you to some something larger people can have um spiritual experiences and they feel more connected so I think from a political point of view I beain after MDMA is the next most important thing that we could be delivering to the American public sosy is is also having its day in the sun right now Rick there are states that are starting to decriminalize or legalize small amounts of psilocybin and there's a difference in the amount that you take just like with any of these things that we're talking about and remember we're talking about psychedelic assisted therapy so self-medicating could be much more harmful than helpful based on that though I'm curious because I know a lot of people who are micro doing at this point in 2024 has there been any research that is backing some of the anecdotal stuff people are talking about with regards to the benefits that they're receiving from micro doing psilocybin well okay let let's distinguish between macro doing full doses of psilocybin and micro doing um the evidence that has been gathered from studies of micro doing mostly they've looked at some of the early ones looking at creativity you know people talk about how it gives them um well let me say this that there was a study with psilocybin that was called semantic priming and what that means and this was not micro doing but what it means is that if I say day people normally say night if I say sun you say Moon you know it's U if I say man you say woman things like that so it's semantic priming you say a word and you prime somebody to say a normal under the influence of psilocybin they showed that people had a wider range of associations they weren't stuck in these normal kind of oh this is the pattern so that's been interpreted to mean that people can be more creative that you hear something and you can draw from a wider range of associations so the thought was that micro doing makes people have more um insightful ideas or that they can be a bit more creative so the studies that were done initially with LSD and micro doing for creativity failed and so the the sense was that maybe the measures aren't that sensitive or maybe the people that volunteer are already pretty creative or but it has not been demonstrated in controlled studies that micro doing is helpful for creativity so maybe it's a placebo effect on the other hand um there's people that micro do for depression and say that it gives them a bit of a lift of energy and it's helpful so um that has not been studied in the same way so I but I do think that there's so many anecdotal reports of micro doing being helpful in a range of different things um even though the controlled Studies have not demonstrated it I think we need more controlled studies different measures um and not just looking at creativity but looking at mood things like that but I would say that From maps's perspective what we're really wanting to do is to help people be free of drugs and help I mean it might sound weird from a drug company or from a you know psychedelic Advocate but what we want to do particularly free of drugs for um clinical conditions we want to do macro doing with therapy to get to the root of the problems so with micro doing often people take it every day or take it several days and then don't take it a few days and then take it again several days but we want to really help people get to the root of the problem so they can work through it and then they feel great I've changed my Baseline maybe I'll do um psilocybin for Spiritual experiences but I'm not doing it for depression or anxiety or fear of death or or or whatever um so I guess all of that is to say that there is um incredible developing evidence about full doses of psilocybin for a with therapy for a wide range of clinical conditions from depression to nicotine addiction to alcoholism to cocaine dependence to obsessive compulsive disorder um there's some now starting to look at cyon for PTSD um CYO therapy is um got enormous potential and I think that uh couple years after if FDA does indeed make MDMA assisted therapy for BTSD and do a prescription medicine a couple years after that um psilocybin will be approved a company called Compass is doing it for treatment resistant depression a company called EA is doing it for major depression disorder there's other companies uh bore that are looking at it for alcoholism so I think that we will see a lot of um FDA action and hopefully approvals for sside and meanwhile as you mention a lot of states and cities different areas are approving plant psychedelics and like the Oregon cocy initiative and the Colorado natural plant medicine initiative and it's going to be on the ballot in Massachusetts um in November I'm not sure when it'll get around to Texas but it may take a while um but it's happening and and so there are State uh training programs for guides and therapists and the advantage of these State programs is people can come not just because they've got depression anxiety PTSD diagnosis but also for personal growth for spirituality for creativity for whatever so we're seeing more and more of that also with Sil cybin so I think we're at a stage where the culture is really um moving very close to the we don't know where the Tipping Point is with the acceptance of psychedelics some people say we've already passed it um I I would say the Tipping Point is when FDA says yes to MDMA assisted therapy for [Music] PTSD yeah and there are some inherent challenges here one is education which you and maps are doing a great job of helping to inform the general public another is drug policy reform to the point that you just made and a third thing that I think is crucial to Rick and I know you've talked a little bit about this is making sure because again we're talking about psychedelic assisted therapy the person helping with the therapy the therapist has a lot of power in their hands when talking about somebody uh whose uh mind is being altered by psychedelic drugs is making sure that the therapist are qualified to do so because of that power that they possess at that point in time is there an obvious solution to make sure that that if and when drug policy reform does flip and this becomes pretty immediately available to the public that there are people out there who will truly be able to help with the therapy side of all of this well you you put your finger on it I mean the key to scaling is going to be two things one is training more therapists the other is studying group therapy and that may be uh really helpful but I think the the challenge with training new therapists is that we believe and every every therapist believes that if they're going to be administering MDMA or psilocybon or whatever to their patients they will be more effective if they've done the drug themselves yeah and how do we create those contexts that are legal inexpensive that's the big challenge we're working with a company called numinus in uh Vancouver uh they're going to try to create a protocol to give MDMA to therapists as part of their training but in a in a group setting but right now we're administering it practically in a individual setting so that's good but they're trying to do that to reduce the costs um the FDA has given us protocols lyos has given lyos protocols for giving it and before that maps to give MDMA to therapists as part of their training um but those are expensive those are data Gathering so I think the the key challenge is going to be um really training more therapists and finding ways for them to have their own psychedelic experiences as part of their training and eventually I would say maybe four or five years from now after M fda's approved MDMA and after fda's approved psilocybin schools of psychotherapy and psych Psychiatry we hope this becomes part of the Core curriculum and then that's what's really going to be solving the problem going forward is that you know people who want to become psychiatrist will have modules and how to become a psychedelic therapist the other thing to say is that the Clinics of the future right now there's um well over 700 um ketamine clinics um but the the world of the future is not going to be a ketamine Clinic here an MDMA Clinic there a psilocybin Clinic there the therapists what we're really trying to do is bring forth psychedelic medicine and we want the therapist to be cross-trained in all the different drugs and then customize a treatment program for each individual patient maybe some people start with psilocybin maybe some people start with MDMA maybe some people go right to ibigan when they they're dealing with obate addiction but we want the therapist ideally to be cross Tred and then the Psychedelic clinics that you go to will be able to provide any number of these different psychedelic treatments in this kind of customized so there's a lot of work there there's 13 million PTSD patients in America what we're talking about at at lyos is training 25,000 therapists by the end of 2030 and treating a little bit over a million PTSD patients by 2032 but that's pathetic in a way I mean that's less than 10% of the PTSD patients and that's till 19 I mean 2032 now that doesn't count group therapy so that May alter that phenomenally but you know you basically put your finger right what is the key to scaling and that's training therapists yeah you may be right about the group therapy aspect of it because there's going to be a scramble once this happens it's going to happen eventually it's just a matter of when and so uh yeah group therapy may be the key that may be helping to mine the Gap in the meantime before you have more individuals able to do more one-on-one type sessions well Trey I think I think that's exactly right and and so that's why I'm here I'm here in Miami we're raising money for group therapy in Israel 400 people it'll be experimenting different numbers of therapists different numbers of assistants different numbers of people in the group and these are people that have been traumatized together um and also at the Portland Oregon VA they've just started Christoper is the principal investigator has just started a group therapy project there and it'll be four therapists for six veterans with PTSD the the difference between the two studies is that in the Portland Oregon setting people will get an individual session first before they do it together in a group and in the Israeli studies people will get two MDMA sessions also but both in a group so we'll see how that works all right I'm really excited because you're going to be here in Central Texas a couple of times over the next month plus first at South by Southwest next Friday and Saturday the Friday session is philanthropy psychedelics and healing at the Austin Convention Center the next day is going to be the future of psychedelics drug development and policy reform also at the Austin Convention Center in room uh 18ab and then you're going to be back in April uh Maps is actually celebrating the 38th anniversary at the Texas Eclipse Festival that's right the uh the path of totality rips its way through Central Texas uh that weekend of April 8th and you guys are going to be there uh and you're going to be a part of a psychedelic speaker series you are obviously going to be speaking Allison and Alex Gray uh gosh Paul stamus there's so many different people I'm not going to list them all right now but that brings me to a little bit of an issue that I have Rick because a good friend of mine who's getting married in May decided to put his bachelor party uh that weekend and initially he thought by having us drive seven and a half hours to ter lingua which is this little uh this artist community on the Texas Mexico border that we were going to get to see this total eclipse but that's not going to happen we're out of the path of totality so should I go to this bachelor party which mind you how do I put this diplomatically there will be some things uh ingested that may cause a sort of eclipse of the Soul if you will do I go to the bachelor party do I stick around for this once in a-lifetime event that is this path of totality solar eclipse here in Central Texas Well here here's my general advice on that is that um whenever I'm confronted with either or kind of questions I always try to figure out how can I do both is there any way so I wonder if you could change the bachelor party to the ctexas eclipse. and camp out with 40,000 other people and then you can do both you can have the eclipse of the soul you can have the eclipse of the Sun and you can be with the rest of the people in the bachelor party and you can be listening to music and you can be hanging out so maybe there's some way to do that but I guess I would say that um you know friendships are critical to our health so if I had to advise you one or the other I would um advise the bachelor party but maybe you could move it a hell of an idea there Rick that's why I had to ask you I knew that you would uh give me a creative solution there he is Rick doblin founder and president of the Miss uh multidisciplinary Association for psychedelic studies find out more info at maps.org you can see up at South by Southwest next Friday and Saturday that is March 8th and 9th go to sxsw.com to get a badge or at least tickets to these two different events and then uh you can also check out that Texas Eclipse Festival through their Instagram page @ texor Eclipse Rick thank you so much for the time today this has been a real honor sir I really appreciate all the efforts that you're making in this world to try and make this world a better place and uh hey uh if you're up for maybe we can speak again just prior to that Texas Eclipse Festival would love to uh would love to get into this a little bit more if you don't mind yeah Tre I think that would be really good that' be really good and good luck with the basor party thanks to gentlemen Jesus to the intro and outro music you're more of his work at gentlemen jesus.com thanks to you for hanging out for more of the show and to connect on social media visit books onp pod.com talk to you next time books [Music] onod

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 00eDxi7hobg (https://youtu.be/00eDxi7hobg) ===

this discussion is a it's a really important one i think for all of us because it's all about what's happening with research around the world uh in terms of getting these medicinal therapies to the stage where they can become registered medicines and therefore available through the health system just a couple of comments to to start with uh i mean the first one is obviously acknowledgment to cut to country in respect of our indigenous population we'd like to acknowledge the traditional owners of the land in which we meet in power respects to elders past present and emerging we'd also like to acknowledge the elders the wisdom traditions the cultures and the communities who have used these medicines for thousands of years for their intelligence wisdom and healing potential i mentioned that this is an important session for us but i want to localize it in australia first so that we can textualize why it is so important i'll just spend a few minutes doing this and then hopefully at that stage rick will be on hand and can start his presentation so key thing i want to say at the start is that uh my medicine australia has nothing to do with the recreational use of psychedelics it's all about the medicinal use that isn't to say that that we don't think that there are problems with the legal system as they pertain to recreational use we do we think there's a great need to uh uh update the legal system so so it's based upon risk as opposed to laws that go back 50 years but as i say my medicine is all about the medical use of these substances the reason that we're so keen to hear about hear from rick about what's happening globally is the chronic nature of mental illness in australia and i can see rick's now come on stream uh so hopefully his internet's working clearly yeah the context for us all is the chronic mental health conditions in australia and you'll see there the figures pre-covered one in five australians i think just as uh sobering is one in eight australians on antidepressants and one in four older people and one in 30 younger people and no doubt these figures are worse today because of covert uh i i think without more because of the even apart from covert but because of the acceleration we're seeing in in in life caused by technology and the resultant uncertainty without more it's hard to see these statistics turning around indeed i think they'll get worse when you go to distinct populations in australia and i've highlighted uh the the uh australian defense force veterans here uh the general population statistics uh look relatively good which is a bit bizarre and you'll see there that mental disorders amongst veterans is is what is almost one and two and co-morbidities is way way higher virtually on every level our veterans who have gone out there and served our country have are faced with much worse mental health conditions also extends to first responders and other another frontline people this all causes obviously immense suffering in australia and a massive cost and i don't like i've got to say talking about economic costs because i think we need to solve this problem because so many people are suffering but the reality is if we can get more people well and out of the system hopefully we release funding to support people who for whatever reason aren't uh supported by new treatments 11 to the room which i've talked about time and time again it's one that's not spoken enough in australia and it's it's simply this that the treatments that we currently have just don't work with a large number of people and you can see some of the stats there with depression it's estimated only 35 of people go into remission yes response rates are higher but response rate rates but response doesn't mean remission it just means management of a condition with post-traumatic stress disorder even worse remission rates estimated by those who who work in the field in australia as being less than 10 response rates higher but again response rates are simply managing the problem so you know the thesis that my medicine australia works on is that more of the same whatever governments tell us more of the same is not going to turn these terrible mental health statistics statistics around and substantively reduce the suffering that we're seeing in this country so what is mind medicine australia we're a charity uh really the same as as maps which which rick founded we're there because we want to reduce suffering we have no other interest we're primarily focused on medicinal psilocybin administer mdma simply because they're the most advanced in terms of trials and no doubt rick will speak to that for us success uh with my medicine australia was a situation where these therapies become part of our medical system uh that they that they achieve the higher emission rates that we're seeing in trials and really importantly they become accessible and affordable by all australians you know we would regard it as an enormous failure if these therapies were only available to people who were wealthy that would be that would be an appalling outcome so what are we doing well we're focused on developing the ecosystem in australia so these therapies become part of our mental health system we do it in four ways the first way is awareness building you know making sure that regulators politicians people in our medical and health fraternity members of the general public understand just how prospective these therapies are we also run a therapist training course last year we trained about about 90 psychiatrists psychologists psychotherapists and so on this year will be about 160. that's all about making sure that when these therapies become available we've got people here who know how to use them in a safe environment the third element is engagement with the university sector why are we doing that simply because most research takes place in universities and most an undergraduate training of of medical and health care professionals by and large takes place in universities that led to the announcement last year of the monash neuro medicines discovering discovery sect center which is australia's first center of excellence in psychedelic therapies and the last strategy is all about uh the all the things we have to do to make these part of our mental health system so it's it's ensuring uh secure supplies of gmp standard medical grade mdma and psilocybin it's working through how clinics can roll out the uh the therapies it's making sure we have the right regulatory framework to support these therapies and so on and importantly it's making sure that we don't make mistakes uh because the last thing we need now is uh somebody being too loose in the way that they endeavor to administer these therapies and a backlash developing that would be that would be appalling how can you help us well you know we're a charity so uh i mean the first thing is you know we thrive on we exist on donations uh there's also an ability to volunteer to work with us uh but but apart from that you know just go up up the learning curve on these therapies and talk to everyone you come in contact with it really is time that australia took these therapies seriously and started to pave the way for their use that's our certificate in psychedelic assisted therapies that's available to people with mental health backgrounds we also run a fundamentals course which is developed has been developed for a much wider group of people which is really the basics of psychedelic therapy and how it works uh we have about 30 chapters around australia uh these are these are groups of people that believe in what we're doing and support us at the local level that is extremely important and we run a regular webinar series and you'll see some of the some of the upcoming ones we have extraordinary people from around the world who who uh give off their time to enable us all to be much richer in terms of knowledge about the mind these therapies and the developing understanding of consciousness so without more i'm going to now introduce rick and i hope rick's got his slides ready uh and what i'll do is make the host that's done it done look just to introduce rick and for most of you i suspect rick doesn't need any introduction uh he he did his uh degree he graduated with a psychology degree in 1987. uh really interestingly as part of his undergraduate dissertation he he did a 25-year follow-up on the good friday experiment which many of you will know about but it was an experiment into the potential psychedelics to catalyze religious experiences he also studied with stanislav groth and i think was one of the early graduates of the holotrophic breathing work that stan was doing and is still doing many of you would have been on the on the webinar last year that we had with uh with stanislav which was absolutely brilliant that rick established maps in 1986 it's 36 years ago so he's got extraordinary tenacity and he established it with the goal of making md mdma into a registered medicine so it could be available through the medical system uh he's if i if if i can say you know he really is the legend in the psychedelic world uh enormous tenacity enormous determination so rick very much looking forward to hearing from you about what's happening around the world thank you very much peter and i'm really privileged and glad to be here and i we are at the very important uh openings all around the world and how we're moving forward with regulatory agencies and so i think thinking about things together and looking at some of the issues that are going to have to be addressed and um i have a i do have a presentation i'll show you where we're at but i think there's also um to think about this the goals the goals of maximizing patient outcomes which is what's got us here but then also the responding issues about scaling and getting into the questions of what are the minimum trainings for the therapists and how do you move that forward and how do you then move into other group settings and how do you get insurance coverage so i think these are issues that we know we're all trying to address um and there's a lot of just trade-offs that are going to be having to be made so the more that we're clearing our thinking about it and you know for for me i think this uh issue of uh this slow rollout of something that's been of great controversy and concern and for which there's a lot of people uncertain about it that the rollout of it is very important to be slower and more qualified particularly at the beginning stages so i do feel things there's two billion dollars of investment money plus here this movement towards uh you know moving forward as quickly as possible at the same time the need to um work on drug policy reform which is also quickly uh so it's it's a great challenge i think that we are at this cusp moment and there's a lot of different things to [Music] think about and i look forward to thinking about some of them with you right now so get my presentation up here just for a second okay okay um all right so um all right so it's been 36 years of psychedelic science um since the start of maps um this is from um alex gray and his interpretation of the map's logo the most important thing to think about this is the um the hands it's people helping people with the psychedelic in the background but this is really about the therapy about humans helping each other um psychology the study of the mind with the microscope is the biology the telescope is to astronomy this is really about the tools that we need and they have been controversial in the past but now they are no longer psyched ups will help us that way um girl young has talked about um we have to study ourselves psyche should be studied because we are the origin of welcoming evil um just this importance of looking into ourselves splitting of the atoms change everything save our motive thinking [Music] we should require substantially no matter of thinking of mankind is to survive i think this new kind of thinking similar to the astronauts when we see our fundamental unity with processes of nature the functioning of the universe as i so vividly saw it from the apollo scope spacecraft the old ways of thinking and behaving disappear and you know we know our global interconnectedness through global warming through covid through molecules that can help us the theory of change affirmed by robert mueller assistant secretary general um about this idea of fostering this global spirituality as being a key to resolving the conflicts that underlie other conflicts maslow moved from his hierarchy from near the end of his life most people are taught this still in school self-actualization but actually um in the last years of his life moved his self-transcendence with the transpersonal and just emphasizing the importance of going this way we do have in terms of cultural change police officers going through our training to learn how to give mdma assisted therapy to other police officers and his police chief has permitted him to be filmed netflix is making a documentary of michael pollan's book how to change your mind and so um his receiving mdma is going to be part of that documentary as a way to kind of tell a different story coming out july 13th great article in the new york times recently about veterans uh ptsd [Music] i think over time um legalization follows medicalization but there are separate issues this is the chart about to use medical marijuana and legalizing or legalizing marijuana for everything in the u.s well more than 50 percent now but i think the education comes through medicalization um this was a great one marijuana went medical than mainstream or psychedelics as the marijuana debate shows attitude shifts that barely seem possible can sometimes become inevitable i think we're not at that inevitable stage that's why i think we have to be particularly careful but i think we're close this was uh timothy leary back in 1990 encouraging me to do research with government and to work on it although he did not want to do that himself he was saying that was really important to go through the regulatory system see how many new papers there are it's just is a psychedelic renaissance many many more clinical trials and they're working out i mean the data is really strong and there is very close working with regulatory agencies the protocols are done really well um i think that this is an emerging field for sure there's just this whole range of potential indications um there's 700 or so ketamine clinics in the united states right now and a lot of those clinics are realizing that when you provide it with therapy it's better than if you uh you don't [Music] you know maps our structure we are 160 people about um 35 or so when the non-profit started in 86 and 2014 served the maps public benefit corporation which is the pharmaceutical arm which will be the group that does the clinical research and also markets the treatment by prescription which is 100 owned by a profit so people donate to maps get tax deduction maps invest in the benefit court the challenge is now that the scale of resources that we need are so large that we have opened up to a revenue share that we are working with for investors for the first time but what it is is investors in the share of revenue that is from the sale of mdma in north america but does not come with voting shares and it actually ends after a period of time and it's a lower um rate than venture capital so it's it's this middle ground um we're hoping beyond that to find a philanthropic story i think that's the real challenge um going forward um data exclusivity though is the good thing is we don't need to rely on um patents or trying to block anybody mdma's in the public domain the uses are in the public domain um the incentives are that no and neutral data exclusive use of our data for a period of time other people can generate their own data if they want to and what i think is we have such a head start with mdma the chances are other people will be looking at other molecules that they can patent they'll be similar different in important ways public benefit models we maximize treatment outcomes we share the research findings we try to be an ethical model we support for-profits they're really important but we also support the drug policy reform harm reduction in the public support personal structure growth and also conflict between couples and cultures even the israeli-palestinian study that leo roseman and robert harris are doing looking at ayahuasca and israelis and palestinians that's going to be trying to look at mdma those kind of projects so that's the public benefit kind of model we've raised over 135 million grants donations for profits over 2 billion this is the key of what we're doing and this is the key to phase three and to the global aspect is this this agreement that we have with the fda after the end of a special protocol assessment process that extended for about eight months after we got approval to go to phase three where we negotiated all the aspects of the phase iii design with fda came to agreement and they're legally bound to approve if we get two statistically significant studies and no new safety problems arise and so we're working closely with the fda and have this guidance and pre-discuss all the different parameters that they want to see so this is the protocol design um uh it takes about three and a half months it's uh three day long sessions and 12 90 minute sessions the day-long sessions um either inactive placebo or you get 80 milligrams of gummy followed two hours later by 40 then people negotiate and most of them go up to the over nine percent go to the 120 followed by 60 120 again followed by 60 those are three to five weeks apart the two-month follow-up is for uh the primary outcome measure um we also do longer-term follow-ups more for insurance companies and to show durability but because it's labor-intensive and it's a two-person therapy team um not always but often male female and this is the basic uh requirement for phase three design uh each of two studies have to be 100 people each um then we've got breakthrough therapy and we've also done this to start talking about globally with the scientific device and the ema um they accepted the design with an inanimate placebo and also um required us only to have one 70-person phase three study because they will accept the data from the um two studies in for fda which are also for israel and for canada so that we have the three country um simultaneous uh approvals and work in israel uh canada and the united states um and so the fda as a main agency will accept data from outside the u.s sub-data so the same way here in the ema they will accept the 200 for the two-phase three-step days and in addition we need a 70-person study before this in ukraine they request we enroll refugees and migrants um we've already got the um industry or completed um in these cities um and we're trying to negotiate separately with mhra the medicine cell for products right agency in england and um as well as with european medicines agency and also then you negotiate with each of the separate countries on the payers will they cover it or not and once you have fda and ema approval you pretty much have um the ability to go all over the world except for russia china and japan japan wants their isolated genetics they say they want to phase three study in japan but [Music] china maybe would be open to it russia's close to this kind of work very much shut down mean research even when it was helpful alcoholism and orientation in russia and shut that down so most of the world though is open up once you have fda and email or one or the other is great but both you're pretty solid um just i only want to say this about mechanism of action that you hear about all the studies that talk about um the mystical experience the depth of the ad for alcoholism for depression um for ocd and i think that is all true but here at mdma um we do not see the same mystical experience questionnaire score remarkably high but um there is no correlation so that's also important as far as our um approach um here's our results that published in nature medicine um new york times um science said it was one of the top 10 breakthroughs of the year for 2021 um as an example but the leading example of phase redesigns for psychedelic assisted psychotherapy um we had 90 people um in it because of clovid we agreed with fda to those um most of them were women most from sexual assault a fair amount of veterans and from other traumas third of them provincial trauma occurred during childhood they had ptsd for 14 years on average more in the third for 20 more years they were the hardest cases that positive ideation um [Music] almost all of them serious ideation one third and positive behaviors our results the top is the therapy with inactive placebo the bottom is the mdma with therapy as well both do pretty well actually um the therapy worked so well it also worked on the depression and a decreased functional impairment so increased functionality um highly significant um it's not significant uh 0.05 it's 1 in 20. it is .001 is very robust fda really likes that but we had point zero zero zero one one and ten thousand we did have 32 percent in the placebo group um no longer um qualify for a diagnosis of ptsd so not really placebo the therapy group um which is really pretty good in phase two it was only 23 percent um but with mdma you had it was 67 percent two-thirds no one qualified for a diagnosis of ptsd um an additional 21 percent had clinically significant um reduction of ptsd symptoms and there were some non-responders as well about 12 we don't have the one-year follow-up yet but for the phase two the one-year follow-up was good people improved over time so we're thinking that um that that might happen again we don't know um we'll be gathering the last data point um in like uh in october and um we'll have that information then in this study dissociative subtype the hardest people to treat um respond to the best um effect sizes were very strong compared to the zoloft and paxil so but what this suggests is that placebo subtracted 0.91 very large effect size but when you take it in combination the way that it will be delivered with therapy plus mbma it's 2.1 to standard deviations from the norm so it's it's really pretty remarkable so i i do think that these effect sizes when coupled with this idea that we think we can really scale it that and this this will apply to i think psilocybin ketamine other substances that the therapeutic approaches um are what really matter the most and then you can do different things with the psilocybin or the ketamine or the mbma but that um what we showed here is that there was no site effects which means that the results were from 15 sites but they weren't coming from a few sites that were the most um qualified highly qualified and almost all the subjects came from there and you know that some of the other sites didn't do so well or something what we showed is that there were no side effects so we think that what this means is that it's scalable that the therapeutic approach with the combination of the mdma it is scalable um from a safety point of view there was a bit more suicidality in the placebo group but serious adverse events one person tried to kill herself twice another person self-hospitalized not to kill herself both in the placebo group so it suggests that that there's something difficult very difficult having you know severe ptsd but that if you can work with it in therapy it's it's it's um hard for people to to particularly when they place their hope in things um [Music] so there's a background risk of suicide in this group of people [Music] and we hope to reduce that in cardiovascular no main problem issue was not a problem but in the placebo group again we've not seen people try to keep self-administering the drug the main side effects we're not much just muscle tightness decreased appetite sweating transitory way more in the mdma than in the placebo group but really acceptable this is a very important slide this this is um a recent study that came out from the veterans administration that is studying 900 people um with prolonged exposure and cognitive processing therapy maps superimposed our phase three data on top of it from our first study so you can see the top line the blue line is the therapy without the mdma the bottom line the red line is the therapy with mdma so you can see it was the most productive of the the four options you can also see up upper left at the um our group slightly higher more ptsd symptoms according to the caps but if you look at the upper right the dropout rates um the prolonged exposure and cognitive process had all prolonged exposure 54.6 percent cognitive processing uh 44.8 and only 6.5 dropped out of mbma so uh and even our placebo because people had a lot of therapy in there and more and also were able to uh if they stayed in they knew they could cross over to get mdma but the dropout rate so it's hard to confront trauma i think it's very difficult for people and this mdma helps i think uh ketamine suicide and other things will help as well but this just suggests again this on this the hope is that this can be substantially reduced to the dropout rates and actually we are trying to do studies to blend mdma with prolonged exposure and also with cognitive processing therapy to see what kind of synergies there might be this interim analysis just happened a month ago a little bit more than a month ago and what we were trying to understand was um how was the study going was it on track as we had designed it to be statistically significant um the interim analysis takes place when 60 percent of the hundred or sixty people uh had reached the primary outcome measure but all hundred had been enrolled and then we're told the number you don't need to enroll anybody this study is done or you can um you have to add more people because it's not the effect size is lower than you thought but you can add people and if it's statistically significant even at lower effect size fda will approve it and so this is a way to help you succeed in your phase 3 study and agreed with fda that we would have this analysis to help us succeed if we needed it to add more subjects or we would learn from this data monitoring committee to stop the study either for safety or because it wasn't working at all so we were happy to report that um we were told that we didn't have to had add anybody we're on track we have a 90 or greater uh probability of statistical significance when everybody is through the study and the last data point will be as i said october and what we're hoping for is that the safety record will stay the same we've had difficulties um enrolling a representative streak of the american population meaning we've been over represented by white people and underrepresented by people of color in our first study but our second study we had 27 in our second study now we have um more than half were people of color so we're doing better in that regard um gender it's been again pretty much two-thirds women um one-third men a few more trans and non-binary in the second study than before in map one um and lgbtqi it's substantial considering they're uh represented in the population how many of them are traumatized but um in our studies at least it's been about a quarter and has stayed the same in both studies um this is where we're it's very important to think of and how this will be developing and and this applies also again to the approaches for psilocybin and even this is the first time that we're blending mdma not with our own therapy which we call interdirected therapy but with cognitive behavioral conjoined therapy another approach accepted within the va and moves the therapy from the patient to the partner as well and both are brought into the treatment and so this is expanding the sense of who are you treating this is more like a family unit or a diet and so one of them has ptsd it affects the other person and both get the therapy and so now we've done this with candace um six diads both got the results were better than anything that they had before um with either with reduction of ptsd or with um strength of the relationship and so there's a big study going on now in toronto with 60 diets half and half cognitive behavioral joint therapy with or without mdma there's efforts to bring this into the veterans administration and several different va's in the san diego va and also the phoenix va and elsewhere so i think that this thought though of moving from mdma assisted therapy only one right way to do it are this inner directed which is what we're using in phase three it's the other methods are useful so in training therapists it's there's there's core factors of respect and support but there's different kind of techniques that can be valid and the way that we really are thinking to um make this is the people that they need the training and the method that was used in the phase three or the studies to make it into a medicine but then they should be free to modify if they want um we're blending uh mdma with cognitive processing therapy robert amory is going to do it with prolonged exposure ednaphoa who's now working with us on to do a study gloom damn dna with prolonged exposure rachel here this is a two versus three sessions so these are what i think i'm saying is that this uh institutionalization and adoption within the va in particular but is something that can um have a big impact in um embedding this in a system that has over a million people with ptsd on disability just it goes to the enormous thing and so um what rachel is doing is two session versus three sessions um one year out we we we believe that people once the mdma therapy is done they can on average keep getting her on their own and that that's what we wanted to do we're going to empower them to keep getting better on their own so it may be that at one year the people that have had two sessions are in the same place as the people have three sessions or maybe it's it's not or but we do know we think that the from the data so far that people do get better were more reduction of ptsd symptoms after each sense so three sessions are indeed better than two sessions and there would be more rapid change that way but maybe that's the expense of the third session or so it's kind of an interesting very important study that she's doing that will relate to how complicated or extensive the treatment needs to be i personally think that three sessions is the best model for most people we did administer it inside the va on october 12 2021 after about 30 years of trying this group therapy study will be starting at the portland va um we're talking about a series of um humanitarian studies that we're trying to work with with people in um somaliland armenia south africa um we're working with um when it can be done something with ukraine um and and so we're gonna need different models in different when we really talk globally there's a lot of cultures that don't have really much uh or psychotherapists but they have enormous amounts of ptsd and how do we work with them in and i think it'll be more in group settings and that we'll need to look at very closely at that but this is now just our very first movement into group therapy which is um three cohorts of six um it'll be four therapists for six uh vets with ptsd so [Music] we'll see about the adjusting ratios over time and also important is that each uh person is having their first mdma session by themselves uh an individual session before they do it together in a group session so it's a very cautious uh move into group therapy this is just a joke about halloween group therapy and what people might be saying um this is um this important study on really looking at taking a ptsd patient into a brain scanner while they're under the influence of mdma only for an hour of the mdma session but this is also uh there is there's going to there is an enormous amount of now research being done on mechanisms of action and i think that's really going to be spreading the study that we did with social anxiety now just adults in the autism spectrum is another point where a lot of people can do it life threatening illness there's so much moving forward particularly with psilocybin now with this that um and i think the move is going to need to be a little bit more into or eventually move more into hospice settings but people really at the very end of life um other studies the alcoholism i really think that there's pan diagnostic lots of different things a lot of these people in benzes study were running from unprocessed trauma you help them process the trauma and then that so i think that we're going to see an enormous uh increase in the clinical indications once some of them are approved that it's it is really trans diagnostic and it's also trans and substance so it will evolve to this you know psychedelic medicine people will be cross-trained again mdma for eating disorders you know we're moving more and more into um meditators and working with psilocybin this incredible study the movie uh descending the mountain if you haven't had a chance to see it it's incredible about this uh uh let's see what's in this area um yeah it's it's this kind of um coming together i think of science spirituality meditation communities is going to happen increasingly [Music] yeah this conflict resolution kind of research is going to happen more and more um but how is the realms going to be um what we really think it should be and this will be um decided by each country each regulatory agency exactly what it will be and how um it will be done but i think it will be based a lot on similar principles and i think the main principle here is that the treatment is not the drug the treatment is the therapy and therefore enhanced by the drug so there needs to be prescribers and safety screening for people who are going to receive this medication and so we believe they'll probably be a two to four hour training program for prescribers who will do medical screening and who will be on call during a medical session and then there will be um the people in the room and the the number of them or the training requirements will vary in different places and we're negotiating now that we we do use a two-person team a lot of people are moving towards one-person team or groups but but that it's only administered under direct supervision it's never take home medicine it's not telemedicine it's only that way it's only administered in certain clinics with a centralized pharmacy that has a list of who's been trained and which therapists and probably patient registry may or may not be and um potentially even a lifetime limitation on doses um we did have a big dispute with fda and i think this is really important for the entire field we want to give mdma we think therapists should be a volunteer to receive mbma as part of their training and that's a big part of their training and it's it's um so we have a protocol to do that um fda put a clinical hold on it for a long time then said also that the lead person of the two person g needed to be md phd and also not just a physician on call but a physician right there on in on the site which would have increased costs not increased safety and so we actually ended up spending quarter million dollars on legal fees for people who specialize in formal disputes with fda and we were able to persuade the senior leadership of fda that that we made a scientific database evidence-based case and so we got permission for the protocol the lead person just needs to be licensed to do therapy the second person currently needs a thousand hours of behavioral health experience um or in a program to get a license and the physician just needs to be on call we are screening more um therapists from um minority groups and giving scholarships and trying to bring them into training i think globally that we need to really think about the training of um people from all different cultures in their contexts um if we can to try to keep um ethical behavior uh during this rollout which has already been a challenge um with one of our um uh research therapists engaging in unethical sexual misconduct with the patient um it's important to try to think about how do we make things like that not happen how what do we learn from them how do we go forward so one of this is this code of ethics that we are teaching everybody as they go through the training a patient bill of rights will be um given to um patients including word to report to uh anything um trying to as the fda take a really good look at adverse events i think that's going to be a critical aspect of this is really you know adverse events monitoring um this is just to illustrate that um it will be psychedelic clinics not just um here's an mdma clinic here's academy right now it is here's ketamine clinics i think the ones that are already doing um [Music] therapy with the ketamine will evolve into the ones that also are cross-trained in mdma and psilocybin and i think these are the ones that people are going to want to go to wherever they have it to be i think just in the u.s alone they'll probably be six or seven thousand clinics i think there'll be um enormous numbers of clinics around the world as well um that's reasonable consider the number of people in us um this isn't just our old timeline it's uh we are still um the top line just as how we predict when fda approval and when dea approval will happen but the top line is right now the um october 2022 is the confirmatory data from our second phase three study that's really the critical thing the most important reality check coming up is in october the last data point in the study if it is successful in the way that the special protocol assessment agreements um required it to be then the rest will flow according to some modified version of of this and so by the end of 2023 we think um fda the ee are scheduling their early 2024 and i think that psilocybin will be a year so behind and then this will be globalizing um there's people doing ibogaine there's people doing five mediocre [Music] move forward a lot this is our just in the united states the bottom line is the number of therapists that we're talking about training and it comes we want to train 25 000 therapists um and these bars are about um the number of patients so we want to in this decade before this decade is over our goal is to deliver 1 million mbma therapy sessions in the us and the upper line is the therapist capacity we're not assuming that they do nothing by this too so and this doesn't count um group therapy um but this is just a projection this is based on a lot of assumptions um but that's that's the overall thing and we are um required if we do succeed in adults to work in a pediatric population um with 12 to 17 year olds and we're actually given an extension in the data exclusivity so i think that this is something that is where it's going to to the closer to the source of the trauma um i think we'll be pretty productive and i think we'll see more and more of this um so i i think you know we're going to have this big psychedelic science conference 2024 and uh june uh 17th to 25th in denver the denver convention center it's kind of like the theme is kind of like the doorway to a new world of regulation and acceptance um and so we think we'll have had our entire package of information to try to suggest the md nation become approved as a prescription medicine for ptsd um in adults 18 or over uh before then and we'll have a really good sense of that so um i'll stop with there and just say um i hope that i've given you some sense i have really focused a lot on um obviously on mdma because that's what i'm working on the most but i think that it's really the um the pathbreaker and that timeline will sort of give you a sense of what's moving forward to be with you tonight rick thank you very much for that uh that presentation i have to say every time i see a presentation from you you seem to be advancing in leaps and bounds and uh this one is very encouraging and i you know hopefully that uh that conference you talk about next year at denver which is going to be enormous will be a real celebration of what maps have achieved i do see a question what is happening in australia um which i'm sorry i have not mentioned yet it's just that things are and maybe peter you can explain too but i i think there uh australia is moving forward pretty well it could be faster um but i think that it's moving forward solidly with a couple studies with phil simon with mbma um with some with government money i i'm impressed um by what's going on with australia yeah it's come from a long way behind and it's now uh hopefully in the pack and hopefully going forward it'll take a leadership role in some areas that government money came from mind medicine australia basically taking these concepts to canberra and the then health minister getting excited by the potential just if i may just a couple of questions and then i think tanya's on the line as well and tanner's going to coordinate questions from from the chat but you highlighted earlier on this whole issue of exclusivity and in australia the exclusivity period is five years and you know boy has maps deserved exclusivity given the efforts he's put into mdma assisted therapy and uh the money that it's had to raise to uh to do these trials but one of the challenges that i keep trying to get my mind around is is that if if a singular party has exclusivity given the pent-up pressure in the system from people who are suffering does that enable scaling to take place quickly enough i'd i'd love you just to sort of talk a bit about that in terms of how you think about it yeah that's great that's a thank you yeah so i think that the um yeah maximizing patient outcomes and and in terms of broadly thinking about that but again what's the treatment that the treatment is the um therapeutic context um with the drug helping it so i think that the scaling question is about how do we train the most therapists and how do we you know and then also what do we think about group therapy so the exclusivity is about um it is is not going to be a limiting factor what could limit it is if we're and this this is something that i guess we should talk more about but what could limit it is that um we do not want to be the only trainers of therapists so what we need so here how i would imagine that that other we are now starting to authorize other groups to train people as well and so what it and but it grows out of the um actual research sites where people have had experience with mdma with um ptsd patients and then those are the ones that we think are the most qualified in a way to sit and you know train other therapists because they've been through it themselves so we're we're starting with naropa with cis you know is that we need to um basically develop a set of core competencies that are specific to mdma assisted therapy for ptsd specific to the protocols and then embed those and what in other training programs and ideally also in schools of psychiatry and psychotherapy and so that the training we really want to be a stamp you could say a standardized level of training but we want as many places to um deliver that training as possible so i think that the exclusivity um you know it's in everybody's incentives to do more more training and so i don't think that if there was a um i think that resources also yeah the the other the other part of this is that there are um the big challenges i started trying to say at the beginning the big challenge is are we going to get the next uh um funding which is the excess of 100 million let's say from investors or donors and and how does that affect if at all you know what we're going to do so i think the the thing about exclusivity i think there's a good thing to incentivize other companies to develop new molecules to tinker with the mdma molecule and to try to see if they there are some ways to make make it more useful and who knows so i guess um it's kind of a long answer but but i i do think that the um exclusive serves a purpose to help the martial resources and everybody's incentives are aligned and i hope that one day that um we'll have enough people in australia that have worked with mdma um with ptsd patients and then they could um become part of your course that then we could authorize it to graduates of that were also you know past the first part of our training program so that's how i think we could work together to scale it and and and also the group therapy that's really where we're going to learn a lot now that's very exciting and you may know that we've got a healthy person's trial coming up with up to 100 people doing mdma and we're doing it in groups to really understand better the group dynamics just a second question if i may just very quickly rick the other thing i mean i think it's extraordinary what you're doing and it's incredibly exciting but one thing i'm i'm terrified about is that these therapies become the the province of wealthy people how do you think yeah how do you think about the cost element and the effectively democratizing this so that anybody can get access to it if they need it well the first part is it should be legal people should be able to buy this on their own for like 20 bucks or something like that i mean there should be a medical product that is way more expensive because it took way more to make it into it but it's covered by insurance so we should have national health insurance that would cover it as medicine and then ideally that's how you democratize it if everybody's got insurance it's covered by insurance then but that isn't the case um so the part that we're talking about a lot of it is peer support there is limited uh we want to train people from different cultures we want to train people um we're starting more educational programs for um people about how to prepare their own trips how to talk about helping pure support so i think we need to embed in the wider culture this idea of um how to use these substances wisely and the other part is that we do need to try to get it um you know at a cost that can be afforded and so one of the parts i like that i think we need i want to try to keep the two-person team but i would like it so that the second person is um a student or an intern doesn't even have to have thousand dollars behavioral they're like working for free to get this experience to move up to become more of a psychological therapist so that would be at least when it's individual therapy it would be good to have you know one person who's so that that getting to that point um reducing the cost i i do not know um how effective group therapy will be but um it's it's a it's a critical question um ideally we would have national health insurance in the united states so it raises the other thing about the patient assistance program so what do you do about people that can't pay well most other pharmaceutical companies they'll just say we'll give you a free drug and it doesn't cause them that much to make and then they've got the treatment but for for what we're talking about psychedelic assistant psychotherapy we can give people a free drug but it doesn't do any good if they can't afford the therapy so that means the patient assistance program should for some people at least provide the therapy at the ten thousand dollar cost or something like that even though the drug would only cost us a hundred dollars so that gets into what do you charge for the price and what do you try to get from the insurance companies so then you can cover the people that otherwise can't afford it but i think the the real check will be the legalization and trying to do drug policy reform simultaneously with drug development is the best answer i think for that equity question well that's an area we're pushing hard in australia but for everyone on this call call from australia you know please uh let everyone know that you come in contact with particularly regulators and politicians just how prospective this is how near it is and this whole issue about equity in the system uh to ensure that people can get access to this when it becomes legal in a way that's affordable irrespective of where they're located and the economic capacity that i think tanya's just come under the screen i think 10 you're going to coordinate a christian from the chat yeah so rick there's tons of questions just just before that though i'd just like to just if you could put up your hands those of you who are from australia if you could put up your hand so we can just see who is from australia who's from other nations just now put up your hands from other nations as well and who's not been on an mma webinar before hands up if you've not been on it great okay well welcome to all you newbies um and rick it's just lovely to see you again and thank you for all your support for mind medicine australia and for being one of our ambassadors it means an enormous amount to us and we're very grateful to you there are heaps and heaps of questions here um peter you might also like to look at the questions and rick um you can obviously see the questions there as well um do you want to pick out someone would you like me to pick them out or how would you like to do that right i know if you could pick them out which ones you thought were and i'll scan them too okay and we'll have to do super quick answers now because otherwise we won't get through as many as we could so we'll do the quick dating formula um so what discoveries in neuroscience would be the most useful for your work none and that's a really interesting point there is no translation neurotranslational neuroscience is um so far it hasn't translated so what i'm trying to say is that um from the fda point of view that you have to prove safety and efficacy you have to prove safety you have to prove efficacy but you have to have you don't have to have the vegas idea how it works now the question is figuring out how it works is fascinating and it's good for making new drugs or whatever but does it really help the therapists know do better therapy by the fact that now i can tell you that the amygdala has um reduction of activity after mdma and that there's enhanced activity in the prefrontal cortex and that there's increased connectivity between the campus and um that there's oxytocin or released is that when you teach that to therapists does that make them better therapists no i don't think it does so there's nothing that i think i would love to see some part of neuroscience that is translated now here's another thing that's a bit frustrating the um darba the you know research arm of the u.s military um gave a i think 27 million dollar grant to people to develop non-psychedelic psychedelics for neuroplasticity and other things that actually could be a good idea that that you can have um you know neuroplasticity without getting high you know maybe you know so so that neuroscience i think can maybe figure out non-psychedelic psychedelics which could do a lot of things so yeah i'd look forward to what we can learn about non-psychedelic psychedelics but my main interest is in psychological therapy and i don't know that neuroscience will make a contribution but i would love to be wrong about that okay and then there's some a question here about i'm very curious about long-term follow-up success yes it appears there is default understanding that all due to psychedelic experience and follow-up integration sessions but is there any assessment re-follow-up lifestyle changes and what are these playing positive progress um we do gather some information about lifestyle changes but but it's not a big part of the questionnaires and the long-term follow-ups no i mean there is a lot about you know jobs and certain things but um it's mainly the long-term follow-ups are about adverse events and durability of um ptsd symptoms you know and also you know other benefits but but the other part is that we cannot say that it's due to whatever we find due to the mdma all we can say is the mdma was part of a process that opened people up to maybe try to try new things or or not but it was hopefully it moved them in the right direction but we can't attribute the the results that we see in the long-term follow-up to mbma in the same way um it's you know people's life events are very difficult and we do see that a lot of people have events that are re-traumatizing um and and hopefully they've become more resilient because of the therapy but also they've had prior trauma so i think that the long-term follow-ups are critical and the other part that we will need to do eventually is to try to figure out how to predict ahead of time who's going to respond and who's not to respond so we do not really know we do not really have a good idea of who's going to be the responder and who's not going to be the responder um and if we can figure that out then then insurance companies now are much more interested in supporting it because they know that they can predict more of the benefits but if they're you know 85 responders that's also pretty good already no i'm you're doing a great job and um you know it's hard to measure some of these things from any kind of treatment of course um because you never know exact causality yeah but we have asked now we're trying to do long-term follow-ups to some people that were in studies 15 years ago so we are trying to gather right now the long-term follow-up data from the very long term uh that's brilliant see yeah it's it's it's you get so much that's what we really need to know is is what are the long-term effects you know the short-term expert could be enough but um and this this question so so as you know rick um my medicine australian mind medicine institute are doing um a healthy person's um study starting in in a few months time with a hundred people doing mdma and a hundred psilocybin in group therapy environments these are therapists going through our certificate in psychedelics let me just say that that is fantastic thank you it is very exciting fantastic accomplishment it's uh i yeah amazing yeah and we're very excited about and for all of you who are therapists on this call or if you know therapists please encourage them to do the cpap training because it's it's just a fantastic opportunity for people to actually try these treatments out in medically controlled environments in a group environment as well with group therapy i mean i'd love to be a fly on the wall in those sessions that would be really fascinating there's a question here about you know studies i guess in the u.s and canada as well there's been more and more studies occurring on benefits for healthy persons or healthy normal yeah yeah of course um and the question then is do you believe these drugs will be made legal for these purposes anytime soon you know we often get questions like that um so people you know wanting to just get the well-being benefits of using these medicines well i think that um the the thing that is happening you know is the movement from the patient to the patient family members you know and they're technically not the ones with the diagnosis but but with end of life and with ptsd those kind of studies have been fda approved to move to well people you know one of the ones that of course where i'm looking forward to many um is so important is the religious leader study that's about uh psilocybin and religious leaders done by john roland griffiths and tony boses at nyu and hopkins and so those we tend to think maybe religious leaders are well we hope um so this study in religious leaders of different traditions um i think that the the studies and the benefits can be demonstrated in a lot of ways but how do you provide legal access you know to um you know to use psychedelics you you have to go through the legalization route or you have to do the research route and so i think that that's um or you can try to go through the religious realm you know and religious freedom and and that is um in general what is or in specific too that the religious freedom has been limited to groups you have to be like a native american church or ayahuasca or you know you can't yet have your own individual freedom um so you have to have that religious freedom in groups um so i think that's not likely as a you know um we should try to move forward with that as well but i think that the idea not only is it about well people but it's about preventative medicine and if you can actually yeah okay and not only that and we haven't i didn't really make much of a note of it but that um you know it's for mind-body illnesses too but i i predict that it is 2035 when these things will be legal in the united states under a system i think that we pretty much every all the psychedelics i think will be um the others i think we may i think we will have federal marijuana in a couple years for and what what that will mean is like 20 25 2026 maybe we will have the federal government what they did with alcohol prohibition and just say we're out of it it's up to the states and we have a bunch of states that legalize um i'm here right now actually in montana and that's why the reception is not so good or it wasn't so good at the beginning but um they even have legalized marijuana here but i think that what it's going to take is a decade of psychedelic psychotherapy patient stories going through the culture that yeah and that's why we talk about a million ptsd patients and and so i think there's misinformation people need to hear stories from people that they know about the therapy having been helpful and that that i think will come over a decade or so and again i hope that i'm being conservative i'd love to be accused to be conservative um so i but i do think that it should be in a way that's called a licensed legalization and what i mean by that is you think about alcohol i think alcohol's not regulated so well because you can you know get in a bar fight and then get arrested for that and go to jail and you can go to another bar or you can be a drunk driver and you can lose your license but you can still go to another bar and another alcohol store so i think that if you have a license it's like a credit card if you misbehave with the drug you can't buy it so easily there will be a black market but so i wish this idea of the well people there will be people trying to press on religious freedom for individuals or you know amorphous churches that you could join one day of the ceremony or something um do you have a sense in australia oh i mean just if you give me uh peter like what is your sense in australia about when things will be um available legally for adults the last thing i'll say is that i think that a children should be illegal for kids unless they get permission of their parents or guardians so there should be parental override of the drug laws yeah like a vision quest in the future you know like i love that idea of children going with their parents on a vision quest you know or getting permission to do it somewhere else but it's still with permission of their parents sure sure sorry rick's question uh there are moves in australia for decriminalisation and the act which is one of our territories seems to be leading the way now that's not legalization but at least it's the first step one of the challenges we have in australia is we don't have a bill of rights so there's nothing we can actually turn to to insist on change other than lobbying and you know persuasion and you know in that way we're very different for example than canada which i think has been using the bill of rights or to to to generate some change we're also in an incredibly conservative country i mean i i shake my head at the level of conservatism in this country and unfortunately our regulators have a habit of thinking the best decision is not to make a decision so how long do i think it will take to get legalization i think you're probably right we need probably 10 years of this being part of our medical system favorable reports back regulators finally getting convinced that actually if it's used properly it is safe and then hopefully you know it will be legal but i think in the in the way that you're suggesting that uh there'll be some sort of registration or organizational structure behind people accessing uh psilocybin mdma and so forth so i hope you're behind you but hopefully we'll accelerate as people here get more comfortable yeah if i may uh the question uh you've talked a lot about mdma and it's incredibly exciting and it's really uh it's great it's it's an amazing accomplishment to get so close uh hopefully 2023 is going to be the year but please just talk about the other psychedelics in terms of how long you think they'll take to become registered medicine and so also just when you do that um rick also there's a question here which is about ketamine being used as a pathway to gain greater acceptance of the other psychedelics if you could also just briefly comment on that as well oh yeah well that would be a good thing to start with just to say that um ketamine you know s ketamine started out as classic classic pharma plate to take apart a molecule patent it when it was the the acetate i mean the isomer is no better than generic then they use that ip to develop treatment into treatment of depression they do that as a pharmacological drug without any therapy that's how they think about it they charge a high price for the drug but they had to spend a bunch of money to make it into a medicine and then they put it out to a lot of people who don't understand therapy aren't doing it with therapy and people are um having profound experiences in different ways um and so i think that the ketamine clinics that are there more and more of them they're realizing that they're a clinic they're not the pharma company that they should be focusing on getting better outcomes for the patients and that they are doing that providing with therapy and that that will be incredible base for expanding into other planets where they they just add psilocybin and um ib and five video as they come along so i think the ketamine is the the clinics that give ketamine without any therapy will i think fade away over time and i think the clinics that will give therapy with ketamine but also therapists cross-trained in the other modalities and maybe then offer a massage or this like you know or it's just small private practices those are the practices where people say i'm going to go to these professionals they're cross-trained in the different psychedelics they can really customize the treatment just for me so i think we're um you know the ketamine is very helpful so when is the society going to be ready um i think that there's probably going to be about um two years after us maybe a year and a half two years something like that um it takes a while to do the uh phase three studies and then to go through the fda process so my guess is that by the end of 2025 hopefully we'll have psilocybin one of these uses either alcohol use disorder or depression uh major depressive disorder or treatment resistant depression i think the psilocybin is proceeding um really pretty well and that within a couple years year and a half but before the end of 2025 is my guess for those um the ibogaine is starting to develop um but there is such a need for ibogaine in the sense that uh in america they had over um a hundred thousand people died from opioid overdoses often mixed with fentanyl in one year um and ibegin is moving forward um in um clinics in mexico elsewhere outside of the us where it is technically legal there's going to be more and more of those set up but the research itself i think is probably five years away for ibogaine um it's been really um there are more health risks it's just at the beginning um i think that um 5mu dmt has started to be used in some different research settings there's really good supplies there's excellent manufacturing there's going to be really good safety data i guess you know from what i understand when it's under supervision some people it can shake people up and so there needs to be real aftercare and support offered if it's necessary um so i think that there will be any new molecules of which you hear a lot about are probably seven years away or more i mean it's um it's a bunch to try to really understand that the thing about new molecules is that you don't have the advantage of old molecules is that particularly old illegal molecules that loads of people have used is that loads of people have used it and so you know tens of millions of people have used mdma or lsd or psilocybin and you know so we have enormous track record of safety new molecules or new molecules chances are they'll be you know just you know very similar but you never know so the fda regulate regulators are going to want more of that kind of core safety data um [Music] i think that there's going to be um some unpleasant uh patent fights ahead in this that's gonna hobble um psilocybin a bit um i think that it would um or it has the potential to so i i think the challenge again is that it's so hard you need a lot of money to make these into medicines um it's hard to get it from um do you get it from investors or donors so if you get it from investors they all want ipn pens [Music] except we thought we figured out a different approach was through the royalty stream which is any case yes no i was just going to say there's quite a lot of questions here about training and i know that you know i've had a lot of chats about training and you said that it's necessary to create a pipeline i think you said that you're going to train correct me if i'm wrong here something like 10 000 therapists over the next decade or was it twenty five thousand i can't remember something like a thousand twenty five it's twenty five thousand yeah yeah there's twelve million ptsd patients in america twelve million people the va just raised the number from 99 to 12 million 12 million yeah yeah so you know so with our cpad course which you're one of our wonderful faculty of um you know we're with you know we've already trained trained i think a few hundred students and uh but i would say partially trained and that that's what i'm trying to um sort of uh at least into the point of if training means they're ready to work with a patient you know and even then we want to supervise them as they work with their first patient but but i hear what you're saying yes yeah and that's part of it yeah that's what it's fantastic yeah that's why it's brilliant uh we have not been able to do something like that um [Music] we well we do have two protocols to give me but they're way more i guess i would love to know how much science is around what is your average cost per person because it's group therapy what is your pro if you don't mind i'm really curious because our per subject cost for doing this kind of stuff is i don't i mean i don't know the answer to that yet but peter will look it up for you and he'll come back to you on that i'm sure um because we'd love to discuss it with you further but one of the the questions that we're getting on the chat quite a bit is you know that people um have financial need and i know that you're very big on equity as well rick and one of the things that all of you should know is that we have financial assistance places in our cpap course so if you're a person in need and you need financial support and you genuinely need it and can let us know why then we'll do our best to support you um at least partially with with the fees for the course but we do have like an incredible world-class faculty and i'm sure someone will put some testimonials um in the chat shortly so that you can see what people are saying about the course but professor david nutt recently described our courses as one of the best trainings in the world and it is a really wonderful course and rick will testify to that and we really want to make sure that there is a pipeline of trained therapists in australia and we're seeing that being a psychedelic assisted therapist or having that as an adjunct to your other clinical work is the most sexy sort of um career move that people can make at the moment and we encourage you our closing date for our next two intakes is in about a week or so so we encourage you to to inquire register sign up as soon as you can that intake's nearly full so and that intake will enable you to be part of the healthy patients trial that we discussed as well if you graduate tenure it's limited to graduates of the course yeah really important and by the way i should just in terms of our ethics approval it's available to anyone in terms of eligibility eligibility who's graduated from a therapy from a therapist training course in psychedelic assisted therapy so it's not limited which includes maths training therapists as well yeah yeah that's great that is great yeah yeah yeah yeah it's the nut that we've not been able to crack but here's how we're going to do it we think post approval just to say how important i think this is for the training um and of course yeah we do have scholarships and um particularly for uh by minority people although with other people just can't afford it also but i think that um it's [Music] so [Music] important that people have this uh experience the opportunity to volunteer we would never require it so what we're talking about is the label because we cannot knowingly sell for an off-label purpose so the label itself that we should negotiate with fda and the tga and all all the different is that the mdma assisted therapies for ptsd by trained therapists whose training can include one mbma session and then it's on the label we can provide it without any data without any therapy just like they were patient i think that's the long-term solution but you've got this incredible situation yeah i'm really i'm proud to hear about it no thank you rick and look just one other question and i mean this is something that we come across all the time and i'm sure you do as well with your training and so on so you know a lot of people will say things like and this is anita today saying my concern is that having the training not being able to utilize it for an unknown number of years in the future now of course anita what we want to say is you can utilize your training so there's multiple trials taking place in australia we're also working hard to ensure that the special access pathway becomes functional in australia which it is becoming more so rick in the us the the compassionate youth schemes and so on but what would you say to someone like anita in that respect like well that okay so let's go back to our data you know the what we showed is that severe ptsd patients um chronic severe ptsd patients 32 of them no longer qualified for a diagnosis of ptsd at the two-month follow-up from just from the therapy so what i would say to her is that you will learn about a therapeutic approach that is pretty effective you know i think it's comparable to uh prolonged exposure or to cognitive processing or cognitive behavioral therapy or um you know so i think that you can put that therapeutic approach into practice right away so yeah yeah yeah yeah so that's one and then the other is that um there are more and more people who are um finding ways to do this on their own and there's people wanting integration support you know people so you know if you've been through if you learned more about it i think you know you potentially could be putting it into practice by um offering to help people integrate experiences that they have no absolutely and then or just think about the ideas just the fact that it's it's so fascinating it'll make you think about therapy in a different way well that's right and you know a lot of our therapists describe the courses the best professional development training they've undertaken because they're learning a whole range of different skills across different silos so normally as therapists people tend to stay in their particular site whether a psychology or psychiatrist or gps they're all coming together learning from one another learning about how to work with patients in altered states which can also include holotrophic breath work or other meditative states for example that don't even involve any kind of medicine and what we're also seeing from our graduates is that a lot of them are starting to set up clinical groups or set up trials together so that a lot of things are emerging from that multi-disciplinary approach in the training by bringing together these multi-disciplines in the training program which i think is really exciting i do i do but it's not that late here so i i could go a little bit longer if you wanted oh okay well that's fantastic peter did you want to say anything else about about the training or ask rick anything or should we just say i think there's a bigger question i'd love to ask rick if we've got time and that is you know when you look what's happening it's it seems to be going incredibly well and all going well we're going to have yeah you may register in america next year and then europe and so forth and hopefully australia what keeps you up at night like what do you worry about the work you're doing yeah that's a really you know so um i worry about this um the scale of the need is so great um you know one of the things we've talked about um and haven't started really doing yet but we just might is trying to create a global index of trauma so um bhutan has you know tried to create an index of happiness and it has been used by different countries in the world so it would be really good to try to think about i think a global index of trauma and then how do we see if we reduce that so all that is just to say that the scale of the need is so great that um the how fast you roll it out um you know and the the when is it enough or the quality of the training of the therapist so i worry just most of all about this balance between about the training of the therapists and that the rate at which we um prepare them because this is pretty difficult work particularly some deep suffering and they kind of have to be um but on the other hand if you provide a safe place you know people do a lot of their own healing um but it's it's delicate so i'd say right now what i'm concerned about is that i i believe between now and october we have over 90 chance of statistical significance so what i worry about is the safety will we have any adverse events you know the the serious adverse events that we had in the first study were in the um [Music] placebo group will we have any tragedies basically in the study um before it ends um so that that's what i worry about then i worry about the rate of change of you know this kind of um for me at least this question for us is where do we get the next large chunk of resources to globalize to commercialize to do um some to reach what's called the sustainability point so what what the big goal for us is that there is a we believe that um mdma assistant therapy for ptsd will very likely become a medicine that we will have this period of data exclusively you say it's five years and um australia it'll be ten years in europe you know it's different all over the world um there's uh and that there will be um a value case because this therapy is so effective that there will be those value case that we can make to insurance companies and national health cares it will become adopted just because um i think it it really works and that there will then be this income stream that is from a sale of mdma that will cover our costs to be doing new studies new indications so that's what we're calling the sustainability point and so what really keeps me up this night is how do we get from here to the sustainability point we've added some incredible people to our board of directors of the benefit corp jeff george who is head of sandoz which is 20 000 people big multi-billion dollar generic manufacturers um dan grossman for boston consulting group who's their pharma expert who worked with us he's now on the so we're um loading up on um expertise and i i think here's i i will say what um we have strong bipartisan support i feel that we've really achieved strong bipartisan support and i feel it's getting stronger not weaker so in an america that is incredibly partisan about pretty much everything right now there seems to be this common ground on healing people with trauma who are not just veterans as i said two-thirds are women two-thirds or sexual violence um so i i think that it's um i don't worry about a backlash for the drug war i don't worry about a backlash against psychedelics you know is there going to be what i worry about is um the big trends in america i guess are we going to keep democracy that's what i worry about but but for what we're trying to do here the need is so great is just how quickly do we um try to address that and and where do we find this quality quality balance um you know because um i think it will take 10 years society is still pretty um we're still pretty much in a bubble i guess i should say and that when we start to treat patients it really we need a lot of really positive stories and i think we're moving in that direction but what i would say i worry about most is just this element of commerce versus compassion we share that concern so i can understand i can't understand that and yeah tanya because there's one interesting question about indigenous knowledge and expertise okay you want to just um do that one and then then we'll close off yeah uh it's obviously an important one because you know we have a uh an indigenous population here and there's indigenous populations in your part of the world south america north america and a lot of those indigenous population people have expertise in this area when we talk about the use of medical mdma and also psilocybin it feels very medicalised it feels very divorced from the the knowledge base that's been developed over frankly in some cases thousands of years how do you think about this sort of juxtaposition of ancient knowledge with medicalisation yeah well i i think that maybe there's a distinction that i'd like to make that is that um it's about what you're talking about i think is is often about treating individuals and this other group this indigenous is group settings pretty much you know so that i think what we're talking about is that we have if you look at recessions have learned a lot from the indigenous approach about um the movement of different kinds of consciousness and what is um what can be done with engaging the physical body and that the you know kind of miraculous effects of psychedelics and this um different way of of having things come to the surface traditional medicine and psychiatry is suppressing symptoms it's kind of like exaggerating symptoms so it's like a different direction of therapy so i think that the individual sessions have a lot of the wisdom of the indigenous but at the same time that there are things in the indigenous approach that do prioritize group over individual that i don't feel that comfortable with i like you know individual rights also the power dynamics so that's a really important to the extreme you have a shaman who takes the drug and who then heals somebody now that's good you want like a surgeon right that's a good you know i want a surgeon who's like you know does it for me but but what we're trying to do is the power dynamics is help people heal themselves and that that's this so i think we do have you know ego maniacal therapists you know that their power like i'm the one that's doing all this for you um you know there's skill and they are have to there's a lot to being a therapist but but i think that sometimes the power dynamics in the indigenous context are not so good some of the indigenous contacts like the the ayahuasca churches in brazil in order to survive they're not really indigenous they're syncretic churches where they've had to blend with the catholic church they are homophobic hierarchical patriarchal you know so the culture is more important than the psychedelics which is the psychonautic global spirituality which i talked about that's in a context but it's not automatically comes from the drug and you can't get it from shooting up in space and be an astronaut or something you know but there's got to be this um sense that that not everything in the indigenous context is the way that it translates like neuroscience i'm not sure but it doesn't translate to the therapeutic setting in the us now as we move towards groups that's where i think that we can learn a lot more from indigenous about that kind of context and i think that what we are going to have to do in a lot of these cultures that are high trauma you know low psychotherapists or psychiatrist or even low concept of trauma or ptsd a lot of times it manifests as physical ones so one of the things you can learn as indigenous is kind of mind-body physical representation of things so i think in doing ptsd therapy in other cultures or context there's probably going to be a lot of somatic aspects to it and that that's i think we're where body keeps the score by best advantage well we know that from the western psychiatrist but that's also big from the indigenous so i think we owe a debt of gratitude and honor to the um sources but i was taught this to be uh uh basically a reformed jew and what that means is that it's our responsibility to take the text from the past and reinterpret them to make them relevant today it's not that you just say oh okay you know so i okay that's ten year unconscious of the time so why not yeah rick um well look firstly thank you everyone who's who stayed on for the whole the whole ride and and thank you for all your support and participation in mind medicine australia we're very grateful if you love our webinars please bring along like three or four people to to the next one and the next one we've got some amazing webinars coming up i think peter previewed some of them but we've got people like um oh uh who've we got coming up uh ron siegel's coming up um wade davis is coming up we've got um bissell van der kolk and we've really got some incredible people um who are going to be doing some work with us and doing these webinars with us and we're really grateful to you rick for presenting and the generosity of your time your incredible wisdom and insight in this field i mean thank you we love you lots and um you know we also encourage people to get involved through our chapters um we've got over 30 teachers around australia if you know you can be a philanthropist even a small one two cups of coffee a week and you can become a regular donor to mind medicine australia you can also support maps of course we do and we just encourage you all to support whatever support you can do in this space to raise the awareness and to challenge your local members of parliament to really move the needle like there is so much desperation and suffering i don't need to tell any of you about this i've seen a lot of it in the chat in the comments we see so many emails and letters a day from people who are suffering unbearably and if we can help change that we will do anything we can to to do so so we just need your support we can't do it alone and um we just thank you all for your your great hearts your great wisdom and insights and rick lots of love and um we hope to catch up with you very soon yeah thank you very much for this opportunity it's really important the training that you're doing oh no thank you and thanks for being a teacher on the cpac course and just a reminder to everyone please apply for um intakes five and six by the end of june don't miss out and if you need financial support please reach out to us we'll do our best to help you in any way we can yeah thank you rick for being being the person you are it's uh it's really brilliant have a good evening thanks everyone

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: YcdIGKa96TY (https://youtu.be/YcdIGKa96TY) ===

Maps is the leading nonprofit organization working to legitimize the therapeutic applications of MDMA LSD psilocybin and medical marijuana maps is working tirelessly within the parameters of real scientific research to prove to the Food and Drug Administration that these medicines should become available by prescription when used with the help of a trained therapist these medicines can help Maps putting the MD and MDMA

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: UlYuVNm_UPE (https://youtu.be/UlYuVNm_UPE) ===

so i think one of the questions for people in the industry to think about is is the medicalization and the business aspects of that something that is compromised if people can buy these drugs on their own in some sort of legalization system or and this is my personal view that the more that we destigmatize these drugs the more we make them available to people the more that we have licensed legalization the more we train people it's peer support that we will sort of affect mental health more broadly but we will also make more of a demand by people for going to trained professionals covered by insurance to get these treatments from all the different uh for-profit psychedelic pharma companies but i think that there's a general sense among most of the companies that the drug policy reform puts their business model at risk and i think that it's the opposite i think that the drug policy reform will enhance and supercharge the business models by making even more people want therapy and treatment centers even though we want to train people to try to heal themselves and also use it for celebration and for couples therapy for all all different kind of uses that aren't specifically treatment of disease
