

=== VIDEO: --dhZqOCrZo (https://youtu.be/--dhZqOCrZo) ===

sorry there's sirens in my background just ignore that um how has precision medicine come of age in the last few years and in particular how has it been used to treat cancer well so you know as i said i've written before about this i i am i i have some sobriety about precision medicine um and my sobriety is uh and i'll tell you exactly what my sobriety is um in the 1990s and early 2000s when we sequenced um cancer genomes and human genomes we i think some of us um optimists had thought that out of the genome just by the genetic sequence and perhaps by the understanding the expression of genes and cancer cells that we would sort of the therapies would fall out of it um in other words there would be a kind of you know you know cancer cancer is x the therapy is why and so forth that has worked for some cancers spectacularly for cancers such as some breast cancers um i heard the conversation about her2 and herceptin um it has worked for some leukemias such as chronic myelogenous leukemia some lung cancers but the so so that's that's the optimistic part of it the sobriety in this is that for most cancers um the genetic sequence of the cancer and our understanding of you know what the cancer expresses in terms of its proteins has not led thus far to a panoply as it were of medicines that we can use for that particular cancer that would solve the problem um and that's been a very sobering um message because we had thought that that would be the case um in in the disease that i treat um uh which is a pre-cancerous uh syndrome called myelodysplastic syndrome or and also acute myelogenous leukemia you know i can send sequencing and i can you know i get lots of sequencing data back the uh the data from the sequencing from the genome and from the understanding of the cancer what the cancer expresses marginally and this is very important only marginally affects what i use as treatment for the for that cancer i'm still using drugs that were used in the 1970s and 1980s to treat a cancer in 2021 now that's not true for breast cancer that is not true for some kinds of lung cancer so there is a very vast degree of epigenetic in our ability to go from information that the cancer provides to the specific drugs that the cancer can uh can respond to one last point is that i'm particularly interested in prevention precision therapeutics so in other words can we use all the various mechanisms that we have now scans blood tests etc etc to prevent cancers in their earliest stages or to catch cancer in their earlier stages and thereby use precision medicine it's almost always the case that in advanced cancers we've been not so lucky in in in doing the kind of precision medicine that we had hoped to do but in early cancers we really get a lot of effect and the real hope is to find these early cancers using a variety of mechanisms and eradicate them so that we can really bring the power of precision medicine so precision medicine is really tied with um that it is the detection of early cancers as much as we can get them

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: -9mJeZ6t6RY (https://youtu.be/-9mJeZ6t6RY) ===

>> Tony Marx: Good
evening, everyone, and welcome to the New
York Public Library. [ Applause ] My name is Tony Marx and I'm
the president of the library. Whether you're here in
person or watching online, we are so delighted to have you
at tonight's Live from NYPL. We have two incredible
writers with us, Andrew Solomon and the man of the evening,
Siddhartha Mukherjee. [ Applause ] So they're here to talk
about Sid's new book, The Song of the Cell: An
Exploration of Medicine and our radical new
ability to manipulate cells. It is the third in
his exploration of what it means to be human. In 2011, he joined us here
in discussion at the Library of his magisterial
exploration of cancer, The Emperor of All
Maladies, and in 2016, came back to explore
the second, The Gene: An Intimate History, in 2016. We are so delighted and honored that Sid is back
for the third part. The Song of The Cell is
available for sale here in the room, or through
our shop, online. Sid will be glad to sign
your copy after the program. Of course, all proceeds
from your purchases will go to benefit the New
York Public Library. In addition, you can
use your library card and borrow it for free. Sorry, Sid [brief laughter]. Sid will be speaking tonight,
as I said, with Andrew Solomon. Andrew is a writer, a trustee
of the Library, a dear friend, and has taught me
and so many others in such powerful
ways how difference and love work together
and reinforce each other. Really life-changing
work as well. If you haven't read
it, you must. Let me tell you about
a little advertisement. Not to worry, not a fundraiser. This Friday, our annual
Halloween Costume Party returns to the Stavros Niarchos
Foundation Library and former Project
Runway host, Tim Gunn, will be the guest judge. Next week, the Bernstein
Award winner Andrea Elliott and past Bernstein finalist Beth
Macy will talk about journalism, reporting American crises, and
their incredible new books. We also have four-time Hugo
Award winner, N. K. Jemisin, talking about her
latest book with the one and only LeVar Burton. All of these and all more
for free to everyone. But tonight, Sid and Andrew
will have a conversation. Sid will be happy to take
your questions at the end. If you're here in person,
you'll see you have note cards and cute little pencils. And the incredible library
staff who are here will come around periodically to pick up
your questions and submit them. If you're watching online,
please send your questions by emailing them
to publicprograms. That's one word, publicprograms,
plural, @nypl.org. Wherever you are, we'd
love to hear from you. The Live from NYPL
series is made possible by the continuing
generosity of Celeste Bartos, Mahnaz Ispahani Bartos, and
Adam Bartos and of course, by all of you and all
New Yorkers who love and support this
amazing institution. Thank you for your support. Thank you for being here
tonight for being part of this important conversation. Now please join me in
welcoming Andrew Solomon and Siddhartha Mukherjee. [ Applause ] >> Andrew Solomon: Let me echo
those thanks to all of you for being here and to Tony for
that generous introduction. And let me just say that
most of you have not yet had an opportunity to read
Siddhartha's extraordinary book. But perhaps many of you
have had the opportunity to read the previous
extraordinary books. I always say that my primary
claim to literary fame is that I was the first
person to blurb The Emperor of All Maladies that I
then reviewed The Gene, and I'm pleased to
say that I'm quoted, in passing at least,
in this text. And part of what's so
astonishing about Sid's work is to have a real genius
in multiple areas that all intersect
so gracefully. In addition to personal charm
and dynamism, there is his work as a doctor and the
patients he treats. His extraordinary ability
to conjure those people as three-dimensional people and to see them fully
and compassionately. There is his ability as a writer
to use the English language with beauty and grace
and elegance. And there's additionally
his work as a researcher. There are whole long tranches
of this book that I looked at and thought, how on earth
could he be doing that research as well as that research
while writing his books? So it's a thrill and an honor
to be here on stage with you. This one, to me,
was in some ways, the most exciting of the three. Maybe just because it's the one
that I've most recently read. But in dealing with the cell, he
really gets at a beautiful song, at an aria in effect, about
what it means to look at life, what constitutes life, what
the boundaries are of life, what it is that we
now stand to do as we understand
life more deeply. And it melds as is his
want history and science and all kinds of other
disciplines in order to give a really full
and rounded picture. When I started in magazine
journalism, the wisdom was that it was boring to
write an all about story. You had to have an angle. But Sid Mukherjee has
made the all about story into an absolute centerpiece of
our understanding of humanity, of science, of life itself. So with that, I feel like
there are 1,000 directions in which one could begin. But I wanted to start,
actually, with the question of how you reconcile scientific
insight that you arrive at in a lab and the
process of writing. It's obvious that the science that you do feeds your
ability to write books. But I wondered whether
the writing of books also, in some ways, feeds
the work that you do as a doctor and as a researcher? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Well, first of all, thank you, Andrew and thank you to the
New York Public Library. Thank you to my family
and my wife and everyone else who's here. I write to think and I don't
think I'm the first person who's done that. The capacity to write allows me
to enter my own mind and places in my mind which would
otherwise be very hard to enter. So a lot of my writing
enables a kind of thinking. You know, these books
are landscapes. They are -- The Economist,
today, called it a tour d'horizon. And when you tour a landscape, I
think you begin to understand -- when you move above a landscape,
5 feet, 10 feet, 20 feet, 200 feet, you begin to
understand the contours of that landscape very
differently as opposed to when you're sitting
inside the weeds. And for every single book, my ability to understand
the contours of a landscape, the landscape has been
incredibly helpful in the sciences, because
it's allowed me to understand where I came from,
intellectually, and where we're going. Because you can't understand where you're going unless
you know where you came from. And so this idea of
writing to think -- I mean, I'm not comparing
myself to other great writers who think, but Darwin
did it famously. I'm always reminded of -- I don't know how
many people saw -- have seen the first time
Charles Darwin wrote down or created the -- what's
now considered the classic phylogenetic diagram, in
which he divided up the world, the evolutionary
world, into a tree. It's probably --
I love diagrams. Actually, there are diagrams
drawn by me in this book. But there's a lovely thing about
that diagram, because on top of that, after having
finished probably one of the most important diagrams
in the history of diagrams, he wrote on top of
that, I think. Because he wasn't absolutely
sure, but this idea of writing to think, I think
is very important and really motivates
a lot of the work. >> Andrew Solomon: And
when you talk about Darwin and about the way that
he used the progress of his own realization as a
means of narrating the insights at which he ultimately arrived, one of the things
that's striking here is that between passages, some of which are quite densely
scientific, accessible, because that's one of
your remarkable gifts, but densely scientific, you
have all of the historical stuff about how so and so was
born to an un-landed milkmen in Nebraska, or in Suffolk,
or wherever it was, made such and such a discovery,
and you give a lot of those personal details. How does all of that historical
information illuminate the insights about what we now know
about cells and cell biology? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, I think that historical
information tells you where people came from and
what they were thinking about and why they were thinking
about those things. Robert Hooke is an
interesting example. He was born to an
indigent family. But because he was so brilliant,
went to Wadham College and became Robert Hooke. What's interesting about
Hooke, who actually is one of the first characters
we meet in this book, he actually was the first person
to visualize cells in plants. He didn't fully understand
the context, but he was the first
to visualize. And I call his intelligence,
I say it was phosphorescent and elastic like a rubber band
that glows when it stretches. It's a little bit of a
pun, because he, of course, Robert Hooke, discovered
elasticity. The laws of elasticity
are named after him. But he was a physicist,
an engineer, and he mastered optics,
mechanics, architecture. There's nothing that was
-- nothing was left behind. And so you need to understand
that person, I think, and their personhood to
understand them looking down a microscope and saying,
I'm going to start cutting up tissues and looking
in drops of water to try to find what's -- what
the microscopic world is. By the way, he also
owned a telescope. But while he was
looking at the skies, there's also microscopic
cosmos underneath. And you need to understand
that person. I'll give you one more
example of William Harvey. In some ways, very much
the opposite of Hooke. Didn't have a lot
of instruments. William Harvey discovered
circulation and he discovered the fact
that the blood circulates. Before that, a lot of
people claim that blood was like a heating -- was the
heating oil of the body and would just heat
all the other organs and then go into dead ends. He discovered that
it was circulatory and that was the basis of our
understanding of circulation, the thing that keeps us alive. And Harvey, unlike Hooke,
was not a microscopist. He had very few tools. And so his tools -- and
there's a nice illustration from his book. His tools were a tourniquet. He would pinch things. And he would take animals and he would take a little
venule and bleed them. And those were his three tools. So he was, I think, a person
of incredibly austere taste, both medically and
also personally. He had a -- he was
offered a massive house because he became the senior
professor at the hospital, but he preferred to live in
Ludgate, in a tiny house. And there's some connection,
always, between these people, their interiority, their
psychology, their desires, and their presence, that
informs their science. And that's why we
return to them. We make them -- that's why I try
to make them three-dimensional. Because if they're not three -- if you don't know that Darwin
had an almost spiritual crisis -- Darwin is not in
this book, by the way. But Darwin had a
spiritual crisis. You wouldn't know that that
spiritual crisis is what ultimately led him to the ship
and led him to the Galapagos and finally, you know, throughout the theory
of evolution. But you have to know about
that spiritual crisis, because you wouldn't
understand him, otherwise. You wouldn't understand
the book, otherwise. >> Andrew Solomon:
It's one of the things that works very powerfully in
this book and in the others, and it made me wish that
you were my science teacher or my son's science teacher, because those personal
narratives do actually explain the logic behind
the discoveries. And the memory of who discovered
what, when they discovered it, and how one discovery grew out of another makes much
more sense once it becomes a narrative of human dynamics. It's also striking
that you appear to have had personal
interaction with all of the most important scientists of the late 20th
and 21st centuries. There are moments when I
think, you met him too? How did you meet him? They're all there. So tell me how those personal
relationships that you built up with all of these
people at a Green Gordon, many others whom you catalog? How did those end
up informing you? Did you already have
those points of curiosity before
you met them? Or was it talking to
them that allowed you to move toward the
insights in the book? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: You
know, they're kind of random. It doesn't seem random
when they're in the book, but they're kind of random. Paul -- I think Ursula is here. Did I see Ursula? Hi Ursula. Ursula is Paul's wife. Paul and Ursula and Sarah and
I used to go to Maine together as part of a slightly mad camp,
which was very dear to us, run by a woman named Kippy
Stroud, who passed away, sadly. And I met Paul walking along
the beach and we became friends because Paul was
interested in everything. And I cooked him a meal. I think I made some kind of
lobster stew or something and he said, wrong career. As in, he wanted
me to be a cook. So anyway, so that's
how I met Paul. Paul Nurse who discovered
the way cells divide, I met a completely
different way. I didn't even know that. He and I were supposed to
be giving lectures together at a university in
Utrecht and by chance, our planes landed together. So they said, why don't you
both go in the same car? But it was a long ride from
Amsterdam and we were passing by and I started talking to him. And I, you know, chatted
with him for a while. And so that was a
complete coincidence. And he told me everything. He's very forthcoming and
he just told me everything. Who else comes to mind? There's some physicians here. Helen Mayberg, I think,
may be here somewhere. I sought her out, because I
was very interested in the work that she was doing and how it
began to change the way we think about putting in
electrodes into human brains and becoming new humans. So it's a real mixture. I sometimes seek them out
because I am very curious about why they're doing
what they're doing. Sometimes I meet them
because the airline happens to be landing at the same place
at the same time and sometimes, it's a windblown beach in Maine. >> Andrew Solomon: So
the next time that you're in a shared Uber, put
away your cell phone. You may have the
bestseller on your hands. You mentioned Helen
and you had talked about possibly wanting
to read a passage. And since the passage you
had mentioned involved Helen, though, you may have
chosen another passage in the meanwhile, why
don't you choose something and read aloud for. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Yeah, I'd love to read it. >> Andrew Solomon: And while
he's finding his place, I would just like to add that
the cooking really is very good. I left it off the
list of extraordinary and apparently irreconcilable
achievements. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
I'm still looking for it. So you can keep -- >> Andrew Solomon:
So I can keep going on about the food, the writing? I will, at some point,
ask you about metaphor. One of the things that
sparkles here as elsewhere is that there are an enormous
number of metaphors that make very difficult
sounding ideas feel very accessible, and they seem to
spring almost out of nowhere. So there's a constant refrain
of the way that certain cells in the immune system resemble
the beaks of different finches and a parallel with evolution. Talking about how you would
have a sharp-beaked finch who had certain abilities and
a sort of spoon-beaked finch who might have other abilities
and how the different functions of cells resemble them. There are descriptions
of great grandfather's. There are descriptions of the
way that parts of cells chew up other parts of cells. I think you've now found
your passage, but I can go on in this vein for
hours and hours. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So
I won't read Helen's passage, just because I read
it at another reading. So I'll read a passage
called The Citizen Cell. Let me talk a little bit, before
I do that, about the structure of this book, because it's
a very unusual structure and it was -- it
took me a long time. And Nan Graham, my editor
and publisher, who we share, and I talked a lot about
how to structure this book. The structure of a book
is extraordinarily crucial and you know that as a writer. Of course, I know
that as a writer. But it is the first thing
that you figure out. There are two things, I think,
that are very, very important to figure out in writing, and
I call them structure and mood. You should know the mood of
a book before you know a book and you should know
the structure of a book before
you know a book. The rest of it follows. And I struggled with
the structure for the following reason. In writing nonfiction, you
always follow the golden rule, which is chronology
is your best friend. And in Emperor, chronology
was a great friend, because you could start
at, you know, with Atossa, the Greek Queen, who may or
may not have had breast cancer, and you end up in, you
know, 2016 or 2010. And it's just chronological. The Gene had a
semi-chronological structure, again, you begin with our
first conceptions of heredity. You then move on and come
to the discovery of DNA, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. Cell biology is very
different and the history of the cell is very different. Because there is a
chronology that begins it, you find Leeuwenhoek
and Hooke therapists that we can talk about. But then the structure
becomes very complicated, because you can't say -- because
everyone is discovering things at the same time. And they're discovering
things at the same time and they're often, obviously,
collaborating with each other. But it would become --
because the cell itself is so functionally diverse. Your neuron looks nothing
like white cells in your body. It looks nothing like a
skin cell on your skin. It would become absurd
to go from the neuron to the skin chronologically. So I made a very bizarre and
somewhat radical decision that every chapter
would be a cell. So every chapter
then becomes a cell. And each chapter is
a mini-chronology. So each chapter is a full
history of that cell, of the discovery, of what
was thought about it, and how it changed over time. And so there's a
chronology inside it, but also it signifies -- each chapter signifies some
functional property of that cell that allows us to live. So it becomes a book of life. So every piece of it is -- has something to do with an
essential quality of life. Sentience, in the
case of your neurons. You know, it could be immunity in the case of your
immune cells. The carriage of metabolism
and carrying out of metabolism in the case of your liver cells,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. So it's a very uniquely
structured book. And I grew more and more
fond of the structure as I learned about it. Anyway, so I thought I would
read something that's -- I just read a piece
from Helen's book and it was just published
in The Guardian. So I would encourage
people to read that excerpt. But this is about the
heart and its own chapter, and it's called The Citizen
Cell and it's subtitled, The Benefits of Belonging. And the reason is --
to take a step back. The reason is that constructing,
you may think that -- again, we don't think
about it, typically, but constructing a pump
out of cells is not easy. You have -- a pump that doesn't
coordinate its motion is a wobbling balloon. And if that pump couldn't
coordinate its motion, we wouldn't be alive. Our circulation depends on it. Even primitive animals
have hearts, where there's a coordinated
motion that they pump together. And that citizenship, which
is the idea of belonging, is, of course, not just a
metaphor for the heart itself, but as a larger metaphor for
what the heart signifies, which is also belonging. So I thought that there
was something quite kind of lovely about it. It has a quick quote
to start with. This is from Elias Canetti, Crowds and Power,
very important book. And this whole idea of the
crowd, "The crowd, suddenly, where there was nothing
before was a mysterious and universal phenomenon. A few people may have
been standing together, 5, 10, or 12 not more. Nothing has been announced,
nothing is expected. Suddenly, everywhere
is black with people and more come streaming
from all sides, as though the streets
had only one direction and only one power." And this whole idea
of belonging together and working together becomes
very critical to the heart. So the way the heart
works separately is that unlike most
cells in our body, the heart cells are
all connected. They have channels
that connect them, such that when you spark a
single spark in one cell, the entire organ
contracts, because it's taken that nervous impulse and
moved it to the entire organ so that it can be one big lobe,
as they say, and it contracts. And then when those
ions leave the cell, the entire organ relaxes and
that's how you make a pump. You make a pump by belonging,
and every cell must belong. It belongs by physically
through channels, through molecular channels,
connecting with each other, such that the ions go in
together, make one single pump and then they leave together and
the thing relaxes, and so forth. So anyway, that's
about cell biology. But sometimes, as
I said, I don't -- I write about cell biology and
then I move on to other things. "The heart, of all organs in
the body, epitomizes belonging. We use the word belong to
signify attachment or love and the heart has been
the central signifier of that feeling for millennia. Of course, we know
now know that much of emotional life
sits in the brain. When you say my heart belongs
to you, you simplify the link between that organ
and attachment. As a child, my heart
belonged to my mother. My father was a distant
presence, reliable and gentle but reserved, somehow
unreachable. His mother, my grandmother
lived with us." This is in a book
about cell biology. [Brief laughter] "Scarred by
her move during partition, she kept to a room by
herself, cooked her own food, washed her own clothes, almost as if the house
was a temporary shelter that might be snatched
from her hands at any time. I have no memory
of her touching me. Her heart, as they
say, had been broken. My transition into manhood
marked a different relationship with my father. As a student at Stanford in
a world before cell phones and email, I began
to write to him. At first our letters were brief
and stilted, but over time, they grew longer and warmer. I began to understand
him in a new light. His loss of home
seemed familiar. In 1946, he had been
uprooted from his village when he was barely a teenager, stuffed into an overnight
ferry bound for Kolkata, a city on the edge of
a nervous breakdown. In the late '50s, he had moved
again as a young executive to Delhi, a city as culturally
and socially alien to young man from East Bengal as
the Frisbee-slinging, froyo guzzling, beer
ponging life of my California
dorm seems to me. I longed to be back home
even for a short while. One afternoon, I picked up my
mail and found a heavy packet. He'd surprised me
with tickets to return to Delhi in my first winter. It was a 16-hour flight
and I slept through it until the fog-choked lights
of the city came into view and the plane made that
elephant squeak sound of the wheel hatch opening
just before landing. Since that trip, I must have
flown to India four dozen times, but it's a sound that makes my
heart bound with a strange joy. The man at customs asked
me for a small bribe and I felt like hugging him. I was home. [Brief laughter] I can still
feel the boom of my heartbeat as I exited the airport. I could tell you about the
neural cascade I experienced. But while the stimulus was
triggered in the brain, the experienced first felt in my
heart, coming back, belonging." And then just a few pages
later, is exactly what I said. "But to imagine the heart
mechanically as a pump is to forget the central conundrum, how do you make a
pump out of cells? An uncoordinated pump is no
better than a wobbling balloon." And then we enter deep history. "In 1912 Alex Carrel,
a friend scientist at the Rockefeller Institute in
New York, cut a small fragment of the heart of an 18-day
old chick fetus and grew it in liquid culture
after first washing. And the culture grew
very extensively. And when he removed and
re-cultivated a piece, he found it's still
capable of pulsing. Carrel's experiment was
widely heralded as proof that organs could live and
function outside the body. But it signaled an
equally important idea, the cells of the heart,
cultivated outside the body, had an autonomous
capacity and a capacity of positive pulsates
together rhythmically, reminding me of Canetti's Crowd. Something intrinsic about
the cells made them capable of the pump-like action. It was a live demonstration
of belonging." So just that passage, I guess,
shows you some of the process by which I write, I make -- when
I write, I make no distinction between moving between
memoir and deep history, contemporary history, a
conversation in a car. Everything gets thrown
into the pot and it becomes a little
bit of a stone soup. >> Andrew Solomon: Well, it
becomes a little bit of a soup. I think, not a stone soup, but
a sort of rich one half-filled with wonders of every
description and without a stone. And the reversions to
narratives of India, historical narratives
India, tales and stories that are traditional in India, it makes a lovely
rhythm through the book. And there are other narratives
in it that are more likely to be familiar to an
American audience, and those are actually
quite illuminating. I was particularly taken with
the one of the metalsmith, which, I think, wasn't
in fact -- was it Indian? The metalsmith who makes the
armor that no spear can puncture and the spear that can
puncture any armor. And the question of how they
would interact dynamically, or might have been Chinese? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
It was Chinese. Yes. >> Andrew Solomon: But yes. But ventures into Asia. The question that seem to me
to be central to the book, and perhaps central to this
moment, is the question of the status of
science at a time when in the larger American
public there has been so much of an attack on the
notion of science itself. You have a chapter on
the pandemic and you talk about the ways that we've come
to understand it and you talk about the mysteries that
we cannot possibly unlock. And you give a wonderful
narrative of why SARS-CoV-2 and its many variants were more
successful at, if one wants to use the word successful,
at spreading than were many other
coronaviruses and many other potentially
pandemic-inducing attacks on the healthy ecosystem. But in the face of the pandemic,
one of the things that seemed to happen, as people refused
vaccines and refused masks and refused all of the rest
of these interventions, was that there was a sense that science was somehow
an egg-headed pursuit of coastal liberals and
was therefore irrelevant to the actual lived
experience of ordinary Americans who didn't have to bother
with all of that stuff. And part of what this book
accomplishes so beautifully, though I think it's unlikely
to reach those populations who are questioning [multiple
speakers] of science, is to argue very persuasively
for the clear, logical, complex, and highly personal way
that science has developed, and the way that each insight
has led to another insight, and by the end of the book,
an almost ecstatic description of all of what those
insights have already led to and could in turn lead to. So what do you make
of the politicization of the idea of science itself? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well,
I think it's very unfortunate. Obviously, that's the problem. I think that part of the reason
behind the politicization is that people have begun to think
of themselves as invincible, politically invincible, socially
invincible, and so forth. But it's, of course,
vulnerability that brings people
-- in some ways, vulnerability brings
people to science. And I mean vulnerability
in both ways. I mean, vulnerability in the
sense of not understanding. So you don't understand
the question. That's what brings scientists
to science, a young person to science, a kind of feeling
of desire to understand. But I also mean vulnerability
in terms of disease, illness. It is remarkable the --
SARS-CoV-2 was very unusual, because the people
who were the sickest and the most vulnerable
were elderly. The young felt invincible, invulnerable, at
least physically. And it was in the young
-- it was in that group, in particular, where the
anti-science sentiment really sort of caught fire and grew. Although, of course,
that's not just the group. The reason I bring
this up is that often, people come to science because
of the other vulnerability that we have, not the
vulnerability to ask questions when they're sick, when
they encounter disease, either in themselves
or in their parents. All of a sudden, this thing,
this egg-headed business that seems to be so far away
from them, hits them home. And people suddenly begin to
realize that this conversation that we're having --
not this conversation, but the scientific
conversation that we're having across generations
has very much to do with the alleviation
of suffering. And I think part of
the problem is for us to recognize what the
source of invincibility is and to simultaneously
recognize -- to simultaneously be
empathetic to the vulnerability. I don't hate anti-scientists. >> Andrew Solomon: I do. [Brief laughter] >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
I find them bizarre, I don't understand them. But I also think that that a
lot of that sentiment comes from a sentiment
of invincibility. And I think that they
become much, much more or much less anti-science when
they feel the vulnerability that inevitably will
come as they age and as they encounter
science as not just, you know, egg-headed people writing
equations, but doctors and nurses and others
doing their job, which is why I think medicine
is a very special science. Medicine is the one science that will absolutely
touch you in your life. There will be no time -- there
will be no one in this audience, I can guarantee, that will
not be touched by medicine and by that vulnerability. And I think as a writer, to
expose that vulnerability and the lack of invincibility,
the inability to answer questions --
we don't have answers to all questions and
it's frustrating. But being honest about it is -- I think helps the
deep politicization that we're going
through right now. And I think, as I said,
medicine is one way that we ultimately reach
the anti-science crowd. >> Andrew Solomon: I think
that's a very profound insight. I have written a lot about
mental illness, as you know, and I'm working on a book about
child suicide at the moment. And the people I've spoken
to who have been touched by it all express a
kind of incredulity at how little there
is out there about it. And I find, over and over
again, it's not merely that people haven't yet
arrived at vulnerability, it's that people don't want to
acknowledge the very possibility of vulnerability and
think that by denying or ignoring these problems, they somehow can
perpetuate the notion that they are not
vulnerable to the tragedies that they've seen
affecting other people. I think there's a strong
psychological mechanism in it as well. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: And,
you know, interestingly, I mean, maybe I'll ask you
a question, Andrew. I mean, it seems to me that
some of those people -- they come from so many
different walks of life. Some of those people when they
encounter the death of a child, maybe not all of them,
but some of them may begin to ask questions
about what happened. Potentially questions
about minds and brains and how brains develop, how social circumstances
influence the brain. And in beginning to
ask those questions, they don't go all the way. But I think it opens
a discussion, perhaps in their minds,
about the possibility that they can also
contribute to this -- to the egghead who
writes equations. And so I think the community
of science is also polarized. Scientists themselves
are polarized. And so I think that
a more welcoming way of dealing with anti-scientists. Not easy, but a more welcoming
way, maybe one way forward. >> Andrew Solomon:
I think that's true. And I think part of what strikes
me about this book as indeed about the past ones, in the
first one, I sort of thought, well, here's Siddhartha
Mukherjee. He's a very accomplished
oncologist and he knows a great
deal about cancer. And it was an enormously
broad book, because cancer is an
enormously broad topic. But it was still
effectively about an illness that probably affects almost
everyone directly or indirectly, but that nonetheless
remains quite specific. The Gene seemed to open
this up further and to talk about the whole nature of
how people are constructed and how we've all
come to be ourselves. I think cell biology and
part of what's revelatory about reading this, has roots that go back a very,
very long way. But essentially, cell biology,
as we know it, is far newer than any of the other things
that you have been looking at. And actually, in many
instances, shockingly new. Things that I learned
in ninth grade, which was now quite some time
ago, but not so long ago, that I hadn't realized had been
discovered only a few years before I got to ninth grade. And so one of the things
that this book has, which The Gene also had,
but which this book has, in particular, is a kind
of shimmering notion of where this will lead
us, which you expressed with some reservations about
what it means to enter any form of post-human future, but
which you nonetheless talk about as being the basis
for our expanding insights into human life and
indeed, all life. And the connectedness of all
life and the relationship between the basic science and
the clinical applications, which can often be so long and
so slow, seems here to progress with unusual speed and clarity. And so I wonder how you
contrast thinking about The Cell with thinking about The Gene? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well,
in some ways, the books are in a little bit of
a mumbo jumbo order. If I had to read the books,
I'll read The Gene first, then The Cell, and then the
Emperor of All Maladies. Because the gene is a unit of
information, the basic unit of information, but the cell
is the basic unit of life. What people often don't realize
is that genes are in DNA, obviously, except
for some viruses. But genes are in DNA, but that
molecule of DNA is lifeless. It is a molecule. It's a chemical. If you eat it, it'll go
right through your system. I was outside a Botox clinic
in Brazil, not getting Botox. [Laughter] Walking, as one
does outside a Botox clinic in Brazil. >> Andrew Solomon:
Give it a year or two. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Exactly. And it was called
The Life Clinic and there was a picture of DNA. But of course, that had
nothing to do with anything. They were not injecting DNA. But I realized that
this has become an icon. The DNA has become an icon of
life and yet it's lifeless. It's the cell that
enlivens the gene. It's the cell that makes
the gene come alive. And in fact, if we really speak
about life and the properties of life, we have to speak
about the cell and we have to speak about, you
know, what the cell does and what the cell can do. The second question that
you asked implicitly, is about the post-human world. And I make a very
important distinction in that post-human world and I
want that distinction to remain as one of the big
distinctions that I talk about. I make the distinction
between disease and desire. Disease, of course, has
to do with suffering, desire has to do
with augmentation. And for the very long -- for a
very long time, these two words, disease and desire, lived
in different universes, partly because we couldn't
do very much scientifically or otherwise. But over time, these words
have started coming together in some ways that are
fantastic, in some ways that are less fantastic. And I will give you one
example, which is kind of an interesting example. When the first IVF baby,
Louise Brown, was born, many obstetricians and
many bioethicists said that infertility
is not a disease. Human beings have been living
with infertility forever. So why define it as a disease? And others, not everyone, argued that there's an
aching to have a child. Not for everyone, but for
some, there was an aching to have a child and
they were suffering. And there was suffering
associated with having a child. Now we completely
assume, not for everyone, but for some people, that that
aching is a form of suffering. And hundreds of thousands of
babies have been born with IVF. Should we, as you ask,
in your previous book, extend those principles
to people with extreme short stature? Should we extend those -- that
blurring of disease and desire to people who are deaf? People who are blind
or partially blind? I think these questions are
becoming increasingly urgent, as I conclude at the end of
my book, as the two worlds of genetic engineering and
cellular therapy come together. And it's really important
to know that they have to come together. A gene put into the wrong place,
a wrong cell, and the wrong part of the body at the wrong
time is a chemical. It is the confluence of cellular
engineering and gene therapy which is bringing disease
and desire into a place that we don't know,
a very unknown place. And the only way that the book
proposal to resolve that is to live outside or to bring
yourself outside the world of science. Science can give you facts. It can provide information,
it can provide manipulation, but it cannot provide
a framework to understand the distinction
between these two words which have inhabited our
vocabulary from the beginning of human life 200-odd
thousand years ago. >> Andrew Solomon: I could go
on asking questions for hours, but apparently, some of the rest
of you wish to do so as well. So let me move on to some of the audience questions
that have come up. Here's one. Do you think it's possible to
apply our evolving understanding of cellular mechanisms and
function toward an understanding of the nature of consciousness
itself in both human and other forms of life? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Tough question. I think there are
strong attempts to understand consciousness
through science. It will require more
than just cell biology. We know how a neuron works. We know how circuits
of neurons work. We can manipulate
circuits of neurons, but that doesn't
equal consciousness. I think we will require tools
from computational biology, from computation, from what is
called artificial intelligence to create a simulacrum of
what we call intelligence. The problem is that it's going
be very difficult to compare that simulacrum of intelligence
to the actual process that goes on to create sentience
and consciousness and certainly it will
be, I think, impossible. So I think we'll
get somewhere there. I am doubtful that we will get
to using these kinds of models. I'm doubtful in conjunction
with cell biology, I'm doubtful that we will get to what I
consider the more profound forms of conscious thinking, which
might include things like love and belonging and
desire and compassion. I think we'll lie
outside the realms of at least what
we have right now. We'll probably need to invent
a new science to create, again, simulacra of those. And even then, they
will remain simulacra. Because our capacity to understand what
is actually happening in the brain will
lie outside it. But, you know, I was only
briefly a neuroscientist. I was a neuroscientist for
a while, but only briefly. So I think this question is a
little bit above my pay grade. >> Andrew Solomon:
[Brief laughter] But I think it's actually
part of what you do accomplish in the book, which is not only
to describe what science can do, but to describe the
-- I don't know. The words are also troubled. But the mystical, or spiritual,
or unknowable, at least, dimension of human experience
that it can't address. Here's one. Do you think that
life/sentience is a property of individual cells or
an emergent property of an aggregation of cells? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Well, I'm almost certain that sentience is a property
of aggregations of cells and I'm almost certain
that life is the property of an individual cell. I think sentience -- I
think cells have function. They have agency, but
that agency is linked to their function. So when a white blood cell
goes to capture an infection or when a neuron fires,
that is number one, living, and number two, that has agency. But that agency should
not be confused with things like sentience. Agency is not sentience. Sentience is a much more
complex characteristic. And so I think that
sentience usually appears -- the way we understand sentience,
again, in common language, usually appears in
multicellular beings. Although, as I said,
if you were to -- you could define
agency as sentience, but that's not how we
-- in common parlance, how we define sentience. >> Andrew Solomon: All right. So it becomes partly
a linguistic question? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Yes. >> Andrew Solomon: And connects,
I think, to your description, there's a very compelling
description, which I suggested you
read and then you chose to read something else, of your
own experience with depression and what that was like and how
it changed your perspective. How would you say it shifted
your understanding of neurons and consciousness and their
complex interrelatedness? That and of course,
the work of scientists, including Helen Mayberg, who
I think is here this evening. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Well, you know, you have to hold a duality when
you think about mental illness. You have to hold the
duality that on one hand, that's an organic property
of cellular dysfunction. I go back to Rudolf Virchow, who makes a very
important statement, a very audacious
statement as a young man, adding the last two
principles of cell biology. The first is that all normal
physiology is the consequence of cellular physiology. No one had dared
to say that before. And if you really
think about it, it really changes the
conception of the human body. And the second sentence
is just its converse. All illness is cellular
dysfunction. Now, what he's not
-- he's not denying that environments
can impinge on cells, as they do in mental illness,
or that sometimes it can happen without the environment
impinging on cells. But ultimately, when all of
the factors, social, economic, environmental, parental, et
cetera, are taken into account, ultimately, it involves
a dysfunction of cells. That statement is
profoundly radical, because it reconceives the
entire notion of illness and it also allows us to, as
physicians, to tackle illness in a way that we
can tackle illness. That is not to say that
we should not be -- in other words, it is to say that we should be equally
attentive and are attentive to all the milieu that's causing
that cellular dysfunction. But of course, we can't
solve that milieu. I can't solve, at
least as a physician, cannot solve the crises that
precipitate mental illness. But someone like Helen or
others can find the circuit in the brain where -- which
may be responsible, ultimately, for the behavioral and cognitive
and the feeling as it were. >> Andrew Solomon: Effective. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Effective emotional being and intervene on that circuit
by putting in tiny electrodes, re-stimulating it, and in fact,
being successful at, at least, ameliorating many cases of
recalcitrant depression. Now, it's important to remember
that what I'm not saying is, I'm not saying depression
is caused by those -- that neural circuit. What I am saying is that
there could be 1,000 reasons that could be. As I said, there's a milieu. But what I am saying
is that as someone who experienced depression
myself, you have to hold both
the ideas in your head, that there is an organic
cause and there can be a cause that comes from the milieu. We, as physicians,
can't, some of us try, but can't intervene
with the milieu. Certainly psychotherapists
do, talk therapists do. But we can and are increasingly
able to intervene on the, what I call the least
final cause. You can't prevent -- as I said,
you may or may not be able to prevent that milieu, but you
can potentially intervene the least final cause. And there's a dichotomy there. It is not -- I'm not saying
this without some trepidation. Because in the wrong
hands, you begin to believe that the organic cause
is the ultimate cause and you confuse the
organic cause. So you have to hold the duality
in your hands at the same time, that there could be a
least common pathway which you can intervene on, but
you would prefer, of course, to change the milieu that caused
that least common pathway. >> Andrew Solomon: I think it's
the conflation of treatment and etiology, that you
might begin to feel better when your serotonin
levels go up. But that doesn't mean the
reason you felt bad was because your serotonin
levels were low. Any more than a house
fire that can be put out with water indicates
that your house caught fire because it should have
had more water in it. [Brief laughter] Here's a
question that I rather like. How do we improve medical
education in terms of language to tap into non-scientifically
curious children and youth? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I think
language is really obviously very important to me
and important to you. I think the key is to avoid
jargon and to convince people of how -- of the
emotional density that the language carries. I think people think about medical languages being
jargonistic and useless. But there's an incredible
amount of emotional density that a word carries in medicine. When you're talking to
someone, every word -- and I do this for a living. When you're talking to someone, every word carries --
is made out of lead. And it falls like a drop of lead into that person's
consciousness. If you allow children who are
scientific or non-scientific to realize that emotional
density and to own it, I think we would vastly
improve medical education. >> Andrew Solomon: I would add,
just looking at my own children, that I think often, there is
a tendency to treat science as an accumulation of facts. And of course, science
involves a great many facts and it's useful to know them. But if you don't get at
what you've just described, the emotional content and
the larger significance that those facts point toward,
they're not very interesting and learning them
becomes just an exhausting and repetitive labor. If you're able to
come back to the point that you clearly are able
to reach in communicating with your patients, but also
in this book in communicating with the world, of showing that these facts
actually are significant. Because with them, you can
perhaps change your experience of the world, your
ability to stay alive, and so on and so forth. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Absolutely. I mean, that's the whole point. That is the emotional density
that's carried by science. I think that -- and
people lose it. People say science is facts. Of course, it's not facts. It's adventure. It's exhilarating. I often tell people -- I often
tell my graduate students, you know, how they're doing
in the middle of a project and I'll say, at the
end of this project, you will own a slice
of the universe. And it sends a chill
up my spine. You will own a slice
of the universe and no one else will own it. It will be yours forever. And that slice of universe, that slice of the
cosmos will be something that you completely own. And I think -- I hope
that inspires them. >> Andrew Solomon: I'm
going to end, because sadly, we're at the end,
with a question that seems appropriate
for ending with. Someone has written in, which
cell is your personal favorite? [ Laughter ] >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
All right. It's a tough choice. I like so many of them. [Brief laughter] You know,
I'll give you an example. I particularly like T-cells, and that's because I've
studied them most intensely. I was telling you
behind in the room that the proudest thing
I've done in my life is to create T-cell treatments
for the first time in India. So we've treated
10 children so far. It's not available. These are children who would die from refractory relapsed
leukemia and they couldn't afford it. In this country, they
can't afford it, of course. It costs about $1 million if you
take in all the other therapy. We're offering it to them
for free for now in trial and at a radically
slashed price. But T-cells are what are
used to kill the cancer. So we extract the
T-cells from their body. We genetically modify
them, weaponize them, grow them up in these dishes in
a completely sterile factory. You have to enter
with a hazmat suit. And we then give them
back to the children. It's very toxic therapy, so
there's doctors that monitor it. But it is, I think, the
proudest moment of my life when I saw the first
child cured. It's hard to describe that joy. I think it's impossible
to describe that joy. But that child is
walking around, went home and left me a picture
of an elephant. >> Andrew Solomon: [Brief
laughter] Well, that, again, is part of what's
so very impressive and astonishing about the book. First of all, I certainly knew
many people who had HIV or AIDS and who struggled with them. And I had endless
conversations with people about their T-cell counts without ever understanding
really what a T-cell did. And reading this book,
among its many, many gifts, gave me that knowledge which has
really allowed me to reassess, in retrospect, the
experiences of beloved friends, some still alive and
some no longer alive. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Well, sorry about that. >> Andrew Solomon: But the
book, I think, is also, as you've just described,
it's infused with a great deal of hope. I think someone said
about The Gene, that it reads like a thriller. And there are moments in
this in which we're sort of moving toward
understanding what happened in a particular instance or
a particular circumstance that are quite thrillery. But I think the overall message
of the book it feels to me, as riveting and as electrifying
as a thriller, is to say, we came to this insight,
this insight, this insight, and perhaps, sickle cell anemia
can be brought under control, perhaps these children
don't have to die anymore. And you write about them with such intimacy
and such compassion. And I think it's an
extraordinary achievement to be able to do that while at
the same time, teaching so much that we might not know. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Thank you very much. >> Andrew Solomon:
Thank you all. [ Applause ]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: -GudlGVWR40 (https://youtu.be/-GudlGVWR40) ===

Acres organized by the Indian Express group as many of you are aware our past guests at Express Adda have been luminaries such as the Dalai Lama economisten Union Minister nitin gadkiri Olympic champion PV Sindhu filmmaker Karan johar and writer Amitabh Ghosh this evening I'd like to welcome Dr Siddharth Mukherjee to the express Adda as someone who's demystified and humanized public discourse on medicine and health with his empathetic writing Dr Siddharth Mukherjee is familiar to many as the author of The Pulitzer Prize winning the Emperor of all maladies a biography of cancer and the Gene and intimate history but is also an eminent oncologist whose recent initiative in Bangalore immuneal therapeutic Limited in collaboration with biotric and entrepreneur Kiran mazumdar show has been rolling out a significant clinical trial on the treatment of cancer called the car T Cell Therapy already in use in several countries this is aimed at significantly Bringing Down the cost of therapy for patients in India new york-based Dr Mukherjee has also recently published his third work the song of the cell and exploration of medicine and the new human that takes readers through an exploration of the fundamental unit of life the cell and its integral role in medical science we're hoping for a fascinating exchange of ideas in an interaction that will certainly offer a window into Dr mukherjee's undeniable gift for metaphor besides of course the complex world of Cell Biology and a number of medical Mysteries Dr Mukherjee will be in conversation today with ananth koinka executive director of the express group and devyani National features editor the Indian Express their data days presented by Raj presented by Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Center co-presented by fostima and frr immigration and in association with devanse our Hospitality partner today islamydia thank you I'd like to welcome Dr Mukherjee Anand and devyani on stage please very warm welcome ladies and gentlemen uh you know when Raj Kamal jha our our chief editor I think he's here today when he asked me uh if you know that we've that Dr Mukherjee is going to be here for another and he asked me if I would be interested in doing the conversation my instinct was to say no um would say no because a you know I I think he's such a great speaker that I really felt I wanted to sit back and listen and not have the you know pressure of steering a conversation um but also because the two subjects I struggled at right through school biology and chemistry uh and so the you know the the word cell in the book itself was intimidating for me um but I'm very glad I resisted uh you know I I didn't go with my instinct uh because the book was a pleasure to read absolute pleasure to read it was so accessible you know he made really complicated uh sort of heavy science very accessible relatable easy to read either digest I must say I didn't expect that I finished reading the book before the other but I did it was really that that nice and that lovely flowing uh text um the book is the book is not only science it's got culture it's got history it's got philosophy it's you know it it it talks it's got poetry it's got patient stories personal experiences uh people friends who have dealt with cancer hero policy makers Regulators philosophers like Aristotle so it's got it all um it really is a wonderful book I I couldn't recommend it more so that warm welcome to the other happy higher thank you very much this feels a little bit like a firing squad [Laughter] I'm On One indent I might be shot by the by the two of you but anyway yes I'm very happy to be here no you know I think the one thing um you know obviously you you're just so eloquent and a great speaker great writer but you know in a sense you're like a rock star researcher rock star oncologist why is it in a sense [Laughter] senses in all senses no you know I think you you know you're the celebrity uh you know you bring a sort of celebrity presence to what is a fairly dense in a sense boring subject um and it's interesting because if you look back five six hundred years and you ask a Layman to name you know five six the the people that come to mind when you think about science you know the best the celebrity scientist you know you get the similar you get the same names you get Newton you'll get uh you know Freud you'll get Darwin you'll get you'll get those same five six seven names going back 500 years but in the last 50 years there's been a lot of advance in science yet the celebrity names are you know there's no that that one Rockstar doesn't come up is that a fair statement to say that there aren't rock stars I think there is a fair State that's a fair statement to make we can actually talk about it uh quite in depth about what that statement means but let's uh let's hold that thought yeah no no I on unpack that for us why why are these celebrity I mean why have scientists why are they not rock stars now like they used to be why are you such an anomaly as a scientist to be a rock star uh I can give you several answers to the question and and some of them are more complex than others so let's start with a simple answer um the simple answer is that um uh these days rock stars are rock stars um and uh no one else can displace them so um we are left uh clutching our our our test tubes um but that said um obviously the status of I think the status of science has in some ways Fallen um in the eyes of people that maybe because of many reasons um but it's uh but it has uh some of it has you know science itself has drug itself into a whole it's uh its language has become inaccessible and complicated in a way that they it wasn't before um those would be I would say some uh uh first level or first level answers to your question there's a much there's a much more provocative answer to your question which I'll talk a little bit about actually I'm writing a piece about it right now um for the New Yorkers you'll see it in full form there was a a very provocative article um in a nature magazine which of course is the preeminent magazine of science journal of science um and you don't need to read the article let me just summarize some of its uh the the key the finding behind it because it actually leads to many leads to quite a deep conversation um the article tried to distinguish between two kinds of science uh and two kinds of medicine um one kind of we've gotten right into it it's I I I I like that but anyway the the the authors um are economists um from Minnesota the article tries to distinguish between two kinds of ideas in science one which they call consolidative and one which they call disruptive so C and D as they call it um consolidative ideas and this can be true for any discipline but they happen to explore it in the Sciences consolidative ideas take vast bodies of knowledge and condense them into something and they give a couple of examples of taking vast bodies of knowledge and condense consent condensing them into something that's a famous paper which describes the structure of the electron um I won't name the authors because you wouldn't recognize them anyway um but um but that's that would be an example of consolidative science uh destructive science disruptive technology is quite the opposite um it starts off a field Anew now you can apply by by the way you can apply this metric or this CD idea to economics social sciences philosophy architecture art etc etc but the nice thing about science is that you can actually quantify it and the way that they decide to quantify it is actually fascinating the way it is such a Quantified is um by looking at scientific papers articles in journals and their their hypothesis is that if science is truly disruptive then the first mention of that Discovery so let's take Einstein's special or general theory of relativity it is preceded by nothing it arises as this as we say sui generous Darwin's theory of evolution it arises sui generous no one has no one has verbalized Darwin's theory Newton's idea of gravitation is sui generous it arises out of itself there's no reference to it in the prior literature so if a scientific article following the publication of theory of evolution what's an increase structure of DNA and Franklin and um and uh also structure of DNA published simultaneously in nature Roslyn Franklin Watson Creek um they arise anew and if you look at the index of Publications that follow it there is no precedent in other words they refer to Watson and Crick or Franklin's paper but they don't refer to any paper before it because all the papers before it were wrong so for instance they don't refer to Linus fallings incorrect structure of DNA similarly no one when they refer or they talk about say Einstein's theory of relative relativity or Maxwell's equations they don't talk about all the wrong theories that came before Maxwell or Einstein they start with a reference to Einstein's theory of relativity right it seems through an intuitive idea if you think about um you know in the world of Contemporary Art if you think about architecture you can think about similar analogies you see a building by Lucan and and if you want to make a reference to it not in a scientific journal but in some way or the other you're going to talk about some antecedents but it arises sui generous generous um in contrast consolidative science arises out of the consolidation of Prior work now what's nice about it is that you can actually in the Sciences you can actually measure it so you can take a single index paper let's say cricks uh and and Watson's uh paper and you can ask the question whenever Watson and crick's paper is referred to how many times before that is another paper describing the structure of DNA referred to and you can assign a number n to that everyone following me so far okay so you can assign a number into that or you can take another paper let's say as I said a Consolidated paper and you can assign another number into that and you can thereby look through the period of History um and in this case they use some Advanced computational tools some artificial intelligence doesn't matter what they used but they correlated 25 million such papers and uh the interesting finding which I find fascinating is that over time contrary to our expectations the number of truly disruptive papers in the Sciences across all the Sciences including some of the social quantitative social sciences economics being one of them has actually been decreasing rather than increasing so we hear the word disruptive all the time everyone's disruptive there's destructive bottle openers these days this is disruptive luggage there's disruptive God knows what um everyone's distracted this is as if we were in a classroom of uh attention deficit disordered children but anyway but the point is what's interesting in is that um very consistently since the 1950s the level of of these truly disruptive papers as Quantified by these metrics that I just prescribed to you has actually been decreasing and the question is why and they Advance a number of hypotheses the hypothesis that I think is most interesting and most believable is that science is um architecturally organized in a trunk and stem manner in other words it looks like a tree rather than what would we call a fireworks uh manner so if I work as a center and lots of things point out of it trunking Branch architecture has a central stem and lots of branches come out of it science has a drunken stem kind of quality about it which is that truly destructive science arises in a stem like in a trunk-like quality and then moves into multiple branches and the idea is that those trunks are quite rare um and in fact are decreasing no but no but but there are I mean there are motories to be found right I mean um I think there are more trees to be found um but they haven't been found they're becoming rarer to find in spite of the fact that there's never been so much money spent on research and science than ever in the history there has been so much money spent on on research and etc etc so in some disciplines um we're waiting for the for the trunk there's been a lot of consolidation a lot of consolidative science a lot of consolidative knowledge but in some disciplines there has been not a lot of disruptive knowledge um just to give you one contrast um there's a trunk that's growing amidst us right now and that's uh the whole trunk of um I would say machine learning and artificial intelligence yeah and there will be that's a truly destructive phenomenon and we can talk about it in Greater detail I've written about written about its effects on medicine etc etc in cell biology to be perfectly honest honest that trunk goes back to the 1800s the late mid to late 1800s when the trunk was established and now we're in the sort of the branch in the cell biology trunk was established in the 1800s uh the mid to late 1800s yeah and the artificial intelligence is a new trunk that's being established now the sense is that it's a new trunk uh it is a trunk that is going to be truly disruptive and the branches we're already trying starting to see if you want to continue this metaphor already starting to see the branches um but it's but the trunk has been is being and has been established and with artificial intelligence specifically you know there is a lot there is a lot of I I feel there is more anxiety than there was with I don't know you know gravity or other other or the trunk around relativity well there's quite a lot of anxiety around Revolution but that's okay yeah around Evolution yes yes when Darwin published his book first of all Darwin's book was a bestseller uh which lots of people don't know the printer had to run uh a print run five times um because Darwin's book was was such an earth Shaker but that's a separate point but um yes you're going back to the anxieties around around artificial intelligence and do you do do you share anxieties around that or how do you how do you feel about it because yeah so there are you know as you know there are two kinds of um rather uh broad areas Arenas I'm not an expert in artificial intelligence although I have uh created startups that use artificial intelligence I've I use it to a limited capacity in my own work not in a very deep capacity uh through collaborations so um so I'm not an expert but um but I but I engage with it quite a lot um I think the there are two general uh phenomena here one is so-called Ai and one is called General AI so Jai or general artificial intelligence um there's not a lot of anxiety about artificial intelligence per se um it's the general AI that causes a lot of anxiety although I personally think that both should cause anxieties so for instance the use of AI in in surveillance um the surveillance of citizens it's obviously a cause of of anxiety surveillance of political dissidents it is a cause of anxiety um the use of AI in Warfare um particularly the combination of Robotics in AI in Warfare is a cause of I think absolutely a cause of anxiety for me and I think legitimately for for the general public I mean there are other aspects of AI which I think are very very not only just benign but very useful um for instance it's the use of AI in deciphering uh patterns in in medicine um who's going to get sick in predicting genetics in understanding biology and understanding cell biology etc etc which cause are much less causes of anxiety sorry I'm going to stop you from a minute okay these at the back we will come to visit something there's so much thank you thank you please keep it down to the back there thank you thanks so much thank you for that intervention I appreciate it thanks go ahead yeah can I take you to your new book now the song of the cell and the subtitle says medicine and the new human so if you I mean it sounds a bit provocative if you could just tell us what you mean by the new human if you could just walk us through that yeah so um I mean the you know books are usually titled my books at least are usually titled quite late some people write the title of a book first and then write the book I usually write the book first and then come back to the title um so um your particular interest is the new human so I think that in in many ways including the creation of new organs organoids um in the interface between cells and devices including potentially devices that go into your brain in the creation of transplants transplanted cells transplanted organs we are creating humans that we haven't encountered before we are creating people who in the ins in in some old Technologies would be called cyborgs although they are not really cyborgs they are cellborgs they are interfaces between cellular therapies and and human beings and in so being are really sit at the Borderlands of the limits of our current technology so um so I think these are are actually unlike um sort of our sort of conception of of of of of new humans which maybe which I jokingly call sort of um Keanu Reeves and a black MooMoo um uh you know the kind of Matrix like um Quality um that we imagine humans in fact there are people walking amongst us here who may have had a bone marrow transplant in fact in our living chimeras so their bodies are their own bodies but their blood is being made from someone else's body um there will be very soon people carrying artificial pancreatic pancreases or pancreata there will be people um with in whom we are stimulating neural circuitry to alleviate diseases such as depression I mean to be just to give you one example that you might think is is very prosaic um when the first child was born in a Petri dish Louise Brown born through IVF there was no such human being in the world born and born in a Petri dish and conceived in a Petri dish um so so I think we are creating um these new humans uh and they're much more real they're amongst us they're much more real than the science fictional uh new human and I think they raise many many questions and many anxieties if you want to call it many anxieties about who we are what we do and what our future looks like and actually we're moving back to what I was asking earlier was um in a sense these are such incredible innovations that have happened and it's you know again 15 20 years 30 years yet the disdain for Science and the design even for doctors uh seems to be uh growing and maybe covert was a was a big uh Catalyst for that but why then why why is there this well I think to some extent there's a strong word but I don't know what about you would like to use I think I think to some extent medicine has driven itself to the ground and not uh not fully um being able to convey its uh Power and its uh tremendous impact on human history um I mean I'll just give you the broadest example of this um I mean it's in the book as well I mean in the 1850s or in the uh less than 100 years ago um the chances when you had a child that you would die in childbirth or in certain areas on the order of 20 30 um childbirth was a deadly event um uh the chances that you would die in uh before you were 60 years old was uh you know on the order of 70 80 percent um lifespans were 40 50 60 years you would be lucky if you were six years old in the last less than a century even 50 odd years we've seen an extension of lifespan into well into the 80s in some countries um and we've seen the oldest humans well into their hundred and tens 115s 120s and so forth so there's been a real there's been a massive change mostly affected I think By changes in larger it's not like medical intervention has caused all of this mostly affected by larger changes in hygiene sanitation psych you know social and Behavioral Health but Health nonetheless um and I think medicine has come to represent not those what I would call a profoundly beneficial changes um but the but but things that are divisive things that are politically fraught and there's there have been I think Paul there's been a lot of politics at work um in the sense of sort of the anti-science movement uh the anti-vaxxer movement being one one edge of that the anti-science movement so I think some of it is the fault of is the fault of medicine itself um in unbean being unable to convey its value um to humans and some of it has been the politicization and the divisiveness and the um the use of medicine as a a scapegoat um for uh political divisiveness both in this country and in many countries around the world so also do you think it's kind of paradoxical that this anti-science movement has also come at a time when you know medical advancement has touched almost all lives and you know saved so many lives so do you see that as a kind of a well there's some Paradox about it but as I said medicines and medicine and science sciences and a particularly bad job in in conveying demystifying um and and and really pushing it making the public understand what it is about what it's doing what its purpose is what it's sort of what the grand project is of when it's a very poor job of it um and I think that's and the result of it as I said is partly the fault of of medicine and the medical sciences and partly because of the political device it's been used as a tool is it also the Commerce of it I mean there's a sense that absolutely there's a sense that the motivation for science is becoming more and more commercial than it was would you agree with that and and um so um to some extent yes I mean the motivation of science has become commercial there's certainly an element to that um which is not necessarily a bad thing I was just going to say exactly that which is that you know um the the motivation of Technology digital technology has been explicitly commercial and in fact uh you could make the you could make a very strong argument that digital technology and social media are are good you know have certainly have had empowering roles in our society but have had grotesquely uh divisive roles in our society even today um you know the main use of Facebook and Twitter seems to be to troll other people um etc etc but you don't see you don't see the same disdain for digital technology which is number one highly commercialized it's a sole purpose seems to be to make Mark Zuckerberg some extra money um or Elon Musk for that matter um it's um you know it's uh it's divisiveness and its political divisiveness seems to be if anything um just as deep if not much worse than medicine but you don't see um you know people standing outside the office of Facebook with uh with posters or maybe you do but you you certainly don't see the the public backlash the anti-science or anti-medicine backlash that you see um part of it also is because you know we think of it perhaps accurately we think of medicine as um as something that is um is is supposed to be benign it's supposed to be not commercial it's supposed to have um hold itself to higher ethical values and ethical standards and that's absolutely Fair it is it's a humanistic science it's the most human of all Sciences um where whereas uh maybe maybe the digital world got off easy by by starting to portray itself as a Godzilla and ending up as a Godzilla yeah but I mean I you know in your book and I think in your books I've not read all of them but I certainly have a version of interview there's a sense that I get where you but big Pharma is kind of a villain in in the book I mean if a character be a villain I mean to what extent do you think you know uh they've been extremely exploitative somewhat exploitative but you know is Big Pharma become the villain globally that big oil used to be at one point um I think big Pharma has become the villain I personally don't think it is the villain okay um I personally don't think I think some big Pharma can be a villain just like I think uh Big Oil can be a villain is a villain in fact to some extent I think it is a greater villain um I think um you know uh big digital Tech um can be and and is a villain I mean it really depends um we would not um have the Global Outreach of vaccination not just for covet but for all vaccines had it not been for companies just to claim a few you know Pfizer modern and among you know AstraZeneca among them you can't you you can't produce you know a small company a small startup cannot produce um medicines for the world you need the pharmacy if I was to wave a magic wand and make the pharmaceutical industry disappear I can guarantee it it will be a loss for human beings of course um and so on the other hand I think the flip side of that is of course that the pharmaceutical industry needs to take itself and its responsibility is pretty seriously be and find a middle ground which it really hasn't just now it has to some extent but it hadn't it was you know highly resistive um how do you resistant um to change highly resistant to the idea of social good and finally after multiple years of resistance has finally come to come to a place where it's trying to recognize and starting to recognize the idea that it has to make some deep changes within itself I don't think that I don't think big farmers I mean as I said if I was to wave a magic wand and make Pfizer AstraZeneca and um you know whatever you know Bristol Motor script disappear I think the world would be poorer for it but on the other hand I also do think that the pharmaceutical Universe needs to take itself very take its responsibilities quite seriously I'll give you one last example of this um all of you must remember the role that cipla so I know Yusuf Hamid as a as a friend I have the pleasure of knowing him as a friend remember the role cipla played in in during the AIDS pandemic at one point of time in most of uh most of Africa virtually all the AIDS medicines were coming from cipla until the um until you know world trade agreements uh really led by the pharmaceutical Lobby slapped uh you know hand slapped and handcuffed um cipla and you know essentially made the uh the creation of of antiretrovirals monopolized the creation of materials um since then there have been you know since that moment I think many of these companies have come to realize that there are greater social goods that they need to deliver on and have started taking their role in in all of this much more seriously much more effectively and much more responsibly yeah and do you think that just the I mean the amount of money and effort that goes into research is what they use to justify their profit margins and the I mean they're extremely profitable each most of these companies extremely profitable most drugs that are extremely profitable uh is it the research that they use to justify is that how they keep their conscience going or what um so I mean it's a complex question I mean there have been multiple studies on this I mean there is a look I've I make drugs I make medicines I was going to come to that because your arguments are not sounding like you'd be a very good businessman for your own company uh I am not uh I don't I'm I'm not involved in the big Pharma Universe I'm uh you know I make drugs as as a as a I make medicines in startups um so um I'm not I'm not beholden or in any way but you are Pharma you're starting you're starting an organization you'll be a Pharma company in a sense but I'm not Pfizer uh so um the well so to take to take a step back um I I think that there is making a medicine is extraordinarily difficult um it is one of the most difficult and one of the most profound things that you can do as saving a life is an incredible thing to do um uh I mean look around yourself how many of you can say that you've saved a life anyone yeah so if you um I've saved more than one life and I'm very proud of it uh and so if but I also I also take it very seriously I take it very I think there's a lot of responsibility attached to that um it's not easy um it is extraordinarily hard work every single Discovery has to be that is life-saving has to be dug out of as I say cold hard Earth and um so some of it absolutely is that there is a value of death um very famously known as the valley of death in which drugs fail um and for a long time that's been used as the central justification as to why when drugs succeed they need to recoup the costs of of that of that failed research um I have become more and more of a skeptic of this idea um mostly uh as you very well know if you look at the economics that we look at if you studied with any great depth you'll realize that most large pharmaceutical companies are surviving by gobbling up smaller highly Innovative startups that's their modus operandi of survival and in fact a lot of research that's being done in big Pharma some of it is very good A lot of it is not very good at all but they survive by gobbling up um a small a small startup so I'm not the biggest believer in in this idea there may be some people in this audience who are but this is that's not that's not really my belief my belief is that you know that they go gobble up startups they do so relatively indiscriminately many of those startups themselves fail and then they recoup the prices of that they have to recoup by charging exorbitant amounts of the ones that succeed so they're essentially recapitulating the cycle of failure that that's intrinsic to uh to the development of new medicines just the last Point here is that the way to get out of this cycle is is is not to crush innovation but in fact is to encourage Innovation such that um instead of in instead of having uh that high rate of failure you actually in a way to have a high rate of success and there are many ways we can talk about how you can sort of tip the balance as it were so that you have a higher rate of success but you know as a Layman one thought that I get is that most of the medicines that you see you know all the work going into are all globalized solutions you know the same drug cures fever anywhere in the world or the same vaccine should work anywhere in the world and I wondered have we made the effort has science made the effort of looking at local Solutions you know like maybe I don't and I'm completely you know as I said I'm challenged with chemistry biology anything medical uh but but but you know you know old civilizations with Japan China Africa India there's so many things which we say is a local cure a local solution to the cold to the fever to tummy bugs to anything you know is there would it I mean should we be focusing also on finding ways to harness that suited to The Climate suited to the population or do we have to always find global Solutions or a globalized I wish the idea that there's a that there are Global Solutions has itself been quite challenged in it has been challenged appropriately in science so for instance um you know there's plenty of data suggesting or plenty of work that's been done um uh to figure out whether there are whether a drug that works in the United States Works within racial populations or I I should say geographically distinct gold race means different things different people I actually try to avoid it in conversations but in in ancestrally different populations in the United States for instance um you know some anti-hypertensives anti-blood pressure medicines don't work in African Americans while they might work in white Americans that's been proven tested with many drugs and so there is an effort to figure out whether you know this sort of global Solutions are can be applicable locally or not but to be totally honest I mean there's some diseases where the aberration of physiology um is so deep and is so consistent um to take leukemia for instance or cancers in general the aberration of physiology is so deep and so distinct that in fact the solution that is invented in Seattle uh may very very well work in you know in in India or in in in in in some other place so it really depends on what what you're trying to solve um so in contrast for instance you know when you're looking at behavioral health or psychosocial determinants of Health drugs that work in the United States may very well not work in other contexts because the psychosocial determinants of Health are very different in India the behavioral health is very different in southern Africa than it might be you know compliance with the drug might be very different in you know some parts of the world accessibility might be different in some parts of the world so so it really depends on on on on what you're talking about if it's cancer you know if it's uh you know acute lymphoblastic leukemia uh acute inflastic leukemia in southern Africa is I can tell you pretty similar to acute lymphoblastic leukemia in in in in San Francisco um whereas um you know if you take the opposite end of the spectrum many studies done on this um the you know um the The Psychotic symptoms of depression um are very different in different localities and different um situationally different because people experience grief and and mental illness very differently yeah so could you also talk about your work in India your companies work in India the cancer therapy um yeah I have actually a bunch but I will talk a little bit about um I should say that we I don't want to dilute the the conversation towards uh um uh immuneal in particular because we we have a separate session on the 21st which is just coming up where we focus really uh on on um on the work that we're doing in the middle we do we'll do a data release but yes I'll talk a little bit about it we are the first company um or we are from you know work done in my laboratory and others um um has found its way um to the creation of T-cell therapy so T-cell therapies are when you extract T cells from from a from a patient T cells are immune cells you genetically engineer them in a hyper sterile environment I mean this environment that we've created in Bangalore is is totally up to FDA standards or any standards EMA standards European standards U.S standards any standards you take them into a hyper sterile facility genetically engineer them and you to make them into anti-cancer Fighting Machines themselves grow them up to a large number and then reinfuse them back into patients and we've we've used them to cure patients we are now for some patients with with deadly diseases like relapse refractory leukemia so their mortality without this therapy would be a hundred percent they would be dead um there's there are eight-year-old boys 10 year old girls living right now as we speak because they received infusions of this cartoon therapy it's one of my proudest things that I've done and and I just noticed that one of our co-founders is in the is in the audience say hello um there's Kiran and I um co-founded this effort this um was not available um to uh to the Indian public um and is now in a in a phase 2B clinical trial it was wonderful we'll talk a lot congratulations but congratulations I mean this is something it is quite uh it is it is our proudest moment um to do this and and that has been progress that's right I mean like I mean there's recently I was just told there's a some numbers came out last week I think that the who was talking about a 30 drop in deaths caused by cancer in in the U.S um that's right so um yes which is interesting because the drug itself hasn't changed the chemotherapy the right I mean the the way no it has well some have changed um so for instance um you know many have changed not all have changed but some have changed um but many have changed and I think that's very important to recognize that they've changed and what the changes are I mean breast cancer for instance uh the changes have been extraordinary so in breast cancer um there's been a drop of about uh one percent in mortality um every year for the last 20 odd years in the United States now one percent sounds like a very small number but if you take it across 20 25 odd years that would be a 25 reduction in overall mortality from breast cancer and that's because new drugs are in in the in the armamentarium there have been new ways of treating breast cancer in some cases in the case of leukemia for instance acute leukemia in kids we're actually figuring out how to decrease the amount of chemotherapy rather than increase the amount of chemotherapy I'll give you one last example kind of an interesting example in multiple myeloma actually interesting disease because um we've had a lot of internal conversations multiple myeloma there's a lot of multiple myeloma in India we're actually making a T Cell Therapy against multiple myeloma it's going through the regulatory process right now we'll be able hopefully we'll be able to bring car T cells against multiple myeloma very soon it'll be the first of its kind as well um uh multiple myeloma there's a there's a lovely paper um published about six or seven years ago which makes the argument that if you were to walk into um a Cancer Clinic with multiple myeloma in 10 years ago your chances of living five years out would be on the order of let's say 60 percent in the last 10 years your chances of living out five years from that is now 80 or 80 odd percent uh with acute lipoblastic leukemia all lethal disease um in the your chances of mortality in 1946 um was a hundred percent um your chances of mortality now uh in uh let's say about five years it was now an 80 curable disease and now with car T therapy that lasts 20 or 15 odd percent we're curing about 80 percent of that 15 that's left over um so we're really up in the high 80s so of low 90s number for for a child so yes absolutely there's been a big difference much of it has to do with cancer prevention as opposed to cancer treatment so let's be clear about that but in the case of breast cancer it's not because of cancer prevention alone it's a combination of prevention treatment and cures and you know reading the book The over I mean the one sense that I got was one of optimism I mean you just I mean am I right in catching that yeah this is an optimistic book I mean the Emperor of all maladies was kind of I would say an optimistic sobering book uh the gene if you were to capture the mood had a sense of anxiety about the future um this has of course a sense of of anxiety too we talked a little bit about some of the anxieties that I have about sort of the the the the the new humans not only not only because we're changing who we are and how we imagine ourselves but we also the economic implications the political implications of that but this is in general a much more optimistic book and so but uh but but would you say we all should be feeling more optimistic or do you think there's just so much happening aside from this book in this research which actually you know global warming mental health these kind of things I mean like do you get a sense that we should be cautious optimistic more careful than we used to be earlier I think that answer is above my pay grade um because uh I mean you know you're certainly invoking things that I'm anxious about but actually don't know very much about aside from sort of I imagine anyone else in this audience uh you know global warming is not a topic that I know very much about aside from being anxious about it um uh climate change similarly um I do think that there are many many things that we should be um less optimistic and quite anxious about but these they lie outside my sort of area of expertise no but does cell biology get impacted by climate change in a way where you feel it's impossible to study I mean because you know the the markers are moving so fast now even the pace at which we live our lives right you know the cell is traveling faster and more distance than ever before I mean does that change how you can study the past to come to results for the for for the present and future so I mean is your question what's the are you asking me if there's an intersection that I can think of between cell biology and climate change is that is that fundamentally that yeah not only climate change but all the new stuff I mean things well so I mean the the broadest thing I can say is that you know I think um cell biology or cells are are the the constitution of the human body is responsible for one of the most vital activities that we do which is the maintenance of equilibrium um the the jargon for that word is homeostasis um which means that you know if I were to suddenly pick you up and throw you into the Antarctic um your body would have internal mechanisms by which it would regulate your temperature for instance back towards normal and as much back towards normal as possible so that phenomenon is called homeostasis it's one of the Hallmarks of life um I think very broadly speaking um the the um the the the larger uh climactic Geographic and political movements that are occurring throughout the world are really challenging uh both social and individual homeostasis and by that I mean it's very hard for people and societies and individuals to retain for instance mental homeostasis psychological homeostasis and to some extent physiological homeostasis when they're moving through um extraordinary circumstances that may involve traveling you know 5 000 miles on on dirt roads in the middle of this of the middle of the summer so in that in that sense um I think uh the the the larger events of today are impinging on our capacity as living systems to keep to maintain social mental psychological and personal homeostasis that would be one example of of larger movements you know now that we will talk now that we were talking about optimism and anxieties I just wanted to ask you about the pandemic you have a chapter in your book on the pandemic that you say that you're right when we thought we understood uh immune system so well then biblically we tumbled I think that's what you said so uh you know if you could talk a bit about that and about how the virus kind of interacted with cells uh you know why was it so severe in say some patients then and seemingly fit right so um the tumbling that happened I think is a is very important I've written I wrote several pieces for the New Yorker uh about this this idea of tumbling um I think that there was a moment of time in which I think we um as as a scientific Community either as a medical biomedical Community thought that we understood vaccination virology and Immunology um among the deepest within the scientific Realms if you took all the systems these were things that we thought we understood very well um and then all of a sudden um here comes a virus that really challenges very fundamental things that we know and don't know about how the immune system works how the immune system so the for a long time we had actually built pretty sophisticated models um of the methodic way in which the immune system tackles a virus or a bacterium and we thought we had covered covered the bases um if you would ask me to describe 10 years ago or seven years ago um the way the immune system tackles a virus or a bacterium I could describe it pretty methodically what I thought I could describe pretty pretty methodically and then all of a sudden um sarskov 2 has turned all of that upside down we've suddenly realized that there are gaping holes in our knowledge about how the immune system works and how viruses can potentially contort the immune system such that it doesn't work the way that we thought it worked um I'll give you one example and there are many I'll give you one example one example is uh is the phenomenon of long coverage so many people have talked about this it's well known in literature um but it's raised the question which I suppose all of you should be thinking about um maybe they're long virus syndromes for many other viruses and maybe we just have been ignoring them because we haven't looked and it's because kovid was such a global pandemic that we've learned to understand the autoimmune consequences of of covid in the long run but maybe there's a long influenza syndrome maybe there is a long Epstein-Barr virus syndrome maybe there's a long you know whatever other virus that you might might call it whatever the bacterium you might be infected with we don't know because we haven't been looking and so all of a sudden our our assumptions about what uh the human body or how the human body deals with viral infections in the long run in the 10-year run seven year run etc etc have all been I think quite severely uh challenged you know I have a very mild version of long cover with myself I can you may have remain or people who've heard me before can hear it in my voice my voice is permanently changed since I had since I'd covered it's technically long covered um but that's just my voice and you hear it every day and therefore you can get a sense of it I have a sense of it but you know there may be other parts of your body that are invisible uh invisible for the most part to Medicine which may have changed permanently because of of one infection or another infection so that's I think the the the the the the the tumbling that has happened and and a re-examination I wrote a piece for a cell magazine called before virus after virus a reckoning if anyone's interested in sort of these ideas I think they're very very provocative ideas but they're all in that piece so do read read it um because we may we maybe we may be sort of just looking underneath the mat um and finding all sorts of things that we hadn't discovered before your second question had to do with um why did some why do some people have very severe reactions um to uh to covet well there we we know quite a lot about it now we didn't know about it before um and they're all everything about this is is surprising um surprise number one is that it turns out that some people apparently healthy um tends to happen more in men than in women apparently healthy um so so listen carefully and get this have a pre-existing pre-existing autoimmune disease that has invisibly because no one knew about it invisibly affected their capacity to respond to viruses they live in they're living amongst us we don't know about them it's only when kovid strikes that you all of a sudden that in previously invisible incapacity to respond to the virus becomes visible and those are people who are actors so it's an autoimmune disease those are people who actually get very severely affected by covid totally surprisingly results no one ever had even heard about it before um so that's one explanation some people have a genetic changes or mutations or variations in genes that have to do with the immune system totally invisible for the most part no one knows about it they go about their lives normally until covet hits and all of a sudden they are become susceptible to severe covid those are some examples and we're discovering more and more about how some people are why some people have a greater susceptibility to covid and to and and to Long covet I'll throw you another surprising swinger previous Epstein-Barr Virus Infection is one of the major uh previous active extreme biovirus infection including previous mononucleosis which is a consequence of epstein-bar virus infection has a strong correlation with long covid why no one knows but again we're lifting up the mat and beginning to see things that we just really hadn't known about Immunology a subject that I've studied now for 30 odd years and people have studied for you know 150 odd years and all of a sudden are finding absolutely new things that we had no idea about before fascinating fascinating new ideas in Immunology the whole whole new branch of Immunology really you know all this coveted talking covert a lot and one of the things that I believe was brought up at a recent talk that you did on the anti-vaxxers of America you know why one of the theories put forth was that the idea of vaccinations actually an Eastern idea it's not a western idea uh and that in itself creates a sort of sense of resistance uh to vaccinating in America I thought it was a very fascinating thought I wanted to um yeah you know Amita brought it up I was in conversation with Amitabh Goshen in in Kolkata two days ago or three days ago Amita brought it up and and he's absolutely right in fact the book talks about it about how the origin of of vaccination and Amitabh wondered aloud um to what extent it was there's a xenophobic response um about vaccination um I'm not sure I I agree with that a hundred percent I think the at least the anti-vaxxer movement in the United States seems to me to me to be driven by two kinds of strands um or three or three kinds of strands I should say there's an anti there's a Libertarian strand which is a very prominent Trend in the United States so my body is my body it's invaluable you don't touch it especially with weird things that um that I don't want it to be touched by so there's that there is now a kind of a new strand of anti-vaxxer or anti-vaxcerism that's arising which is a which is has to do with exhaustion people are just tired of being vaccinated so we have to renew the messaging around vaccination and we have to actually re-examine um you know for some people you know what the strains are what the pathogenicity or how pathogenic the strains are we need I was talking to uh burka earlier on television we need to really we really need to find out the data from China because it we're really operating in a black box are there new strains arising what is the pathogenicity of those trains it's a big black box because what's happening there today which we know a little bit about is going to happen here tomorrow um and so we need really to put some strong pressure to release that data and to and to find out in reality because it's all sort of rumor and conjecture etc etc so there's that strands of sort of vaccine exhaustion um and then there's of course the anti-science in general stand so there's a Libertarian strand the anti-science trend and the um and the exhaustion uh from vaccination they've sort of collected together to create a kind of I would say a demonic Trio of of anti of anti-vaxxers some of whom I think can be convinced otherwise so I think the the the those who are exhausted if truly The Strain turned out to be quite pathogenic and there was a lot of pathogens they could be converted back um I'm afraid the uh the libertarian Strand and the anti-science trend will only amplify I think I'll take a I think we should do a couple more questions before we open to the audience uh I know a lot of a lot of people here is packed house not surprisingly and lots of people want to ask questions um but just one you know one thought on you know mental health you've spoken a lot about mental health uh um and and you've said that the Mukherjee family uh has you know history of of mental health and how you yourself have dealt uh with with depression um and you know I'm reading this book and I don't have the stomach for anything bloody uh but but there were some chapters that kind of got me uh you know a little bit uh whatever it is so descriptively written that I kind of you know had to take a second and pause and kind of just digest that um I really felt like I was at that I was at that moment there was one particular incident with a guy from Boston you've said that you've never used the word bloodbath again because you literally had a bath and blood um and I I just was wondering that what you do uh it can be so emotionally uh challenging it can be so difficult uh you know you're telling patients that they've got you know six months six years whatever whatever you're telling um you're in the situation where you were covered with blood is it did you ever think about you know you know the fact that this takes a particularly nasty toll on Mental Health what you do I mean the the the uh mental health situation in medicine is no hidden secret among Physicians uh there's burnout depression grief grieving um etc etc most of us have over time evolved mechanisms to um deal with it uh that doesn't mean that everyone deals with it successfully um I think you know situational grief is situational um I think there's a there it's it's no hidden secret that there is an enormous degree of uh psychological and psychiatric toll among Physicians um uh but you know what can I say if I had um I I knew about it with my eyes open and if I had chosen not to have done it I would have become a plumber um so um or maybe I'd become a writer oh I am a writer sorry but anyway um I think um I think it's it's it's very important for me and has been very important for me to take the stigma of of mental health away um and to describe it um in I I hope empathetic but also biological terms because then it doesn't become you know a snap out of it uh it's your fault uh blaming the victim kind of situation you know if you describe [Music] mental health even if it's a even if it arises situationally even if it arises through because of Psychosocial reasons if you ultimately describe it in neurological terms in terms of the brain in terms of the body um you can't you can't slap your neurons and and uh into behaving um so you suddenly begin to realize that there are perhaps a deeper biological reasons that uh that that something is happening and I do think that takes some of the you know slap yourself out of it um uh stigma that surrounds mental health not only in this country but in but in but everywhere around the world and and what do you find the distinction between you know in India and abroad I mean do you feel like there is more mental health than we know in India is is there any distinction you would make uh you know looking at this field here in India and outside well I think classically uh there was a there was a lot of under diagnosis um um there's a lot of somatization or or you know when uh when mental health is under-diagnosed you tend to people again has been classified it's converted into physical health uh or the lack of physical health um uh uh The Chronic trauma chronic stress can lead to many alterations in in in in human physical health um and so I think it it there was a there was a lot of stigma a lot of under diagnosis in fact when we were growing up there weren't even words in our lexicon to describe some of the most common mental health aberrations and now there are the words the Lexicon is growing um there you know we understand the behavioral and the psychosocial elements of it in a much deeper way I think the conversation is much more open uh about it but I still think think and I think most people would agree that there's a lot of under diagnosis and there's fundamental you know school of thought which says that the more you go away from nature the more you're kind of fighting a losing battle fundamentally uh and and so whether it's mental health or any sort of stream of science do you do you agree that we've kind of gone too far away from nature in our daily lives and our way of living in the lives that we sort of aspire to live I'm not sure what uh what exactly that means I mean tobacco is a natural product it's horribly nasty for your health so um so there are many natural things that are uh that are quite bad for you um tigers snakes um so no but like I mean what I what I mean by that is you know I don't know sleeping with the sleeping when the sunset so what you know things like that we're talking about well I mean I think I mean you know if you're talking about sort of existential on oui uh that's that's affecting the the entirety of our species uh it's not clear that sleeping under Sunset will solve the existential enemy that's uh that's uh that's okay that's that's affecting all of us um uh so I don't think that's going to be the answer I think I think that there is a sense there's a profound sense of of existential honoree um I think it's caused by many things social dislocation uh uh you know the uh um the uh rather now good increasingly grotesque economic disparities the sociologist has many times remarked or had many times remarked that relative poverty can have as much trauma as absolute poverty yeah I believe that to some extent I mean there is a certain line beneath which it changes so so I think there are many reasons for what I call existential honoree that's that's seems to be the malaise that's affecting us but I'm afraid I don't think that sleeping under sunsets or sleeping under sunrises is before I mean like with the sunsets um and we should get to the audience can I get a sense from show of hands okay wow we got a lovely one so I just have one policy sorry about questions which is um if any I'm happy to have you uh asked questions I generally like to have questions uh be male female other male female and other um as we go along because men tend to hog the mics uh constantly um and um and I'm saying this because actually people have studied this this um I'm quite data driven so I would highly appreciate it if uh if we go I I love that let's do that all right so let's start with female please yes uh the immunotherapy that you spoke about that you're developing in Bangalore uh is that going to substantially be different in pricing to what is presently available in India today which is being administered well it there isn't anything in India today so there's no comparison uh the uh the therapies that we're trying to administer will be substantially cheaper than they are in the United States and in in Europe now that said there's a fundamental cost of goods associated with making these therapies they they are uh extremely difficult to make they are not easy to create the unique require a facility the size of you know I would say this entire basement to be in a hyper sterile environment to create them so you can only drive the price down to a certain point of time before it becomes impossible to produce so um we are trying every single piece of Indian Ingenuity including engineering engineering Talent Etc et cetera to bring it down as much as possible but for this to be sustainable even in the short run there's a there's a fundamental price barrier I'm not even talking about the the there's a fundamental cost barrier that we have to deal with and as I said we are using every inch of Indian Ingenuity already to try to bring the cost of goods down to as Bare Bones as possible and survive still as as a startup because it is so prohibitively yeah I mean so I'll just give you the sense of what the numbers are in the United States which would be coming which would be impossible so all in the um a single bag of cartes uh produced by let's say Novartis or a company uh all in is priced at 450 000 dollars um uh that's all in for the bag uh add to that the treatment the treatment and the hospitalization and add to that the the uh the pre-treatment so in other words these are for relapse refractory patients so they've already gone through their cycles of chemotherapy etc etc so you're literally looking at a figure on the let's say eight hundred thousand dollar range and as a friend of mine once said uh half of infinity is still Infinity um so half of uh eight hundred thousand dollars won't cut it and so the answer is uh whatever we get to it's not going to be half of that it has to be much more substantial than that but that said there is a bottom price as it were um that that the cost of goods itself carries and we can't go below that price unless we have you know some form of innovating our way out of that price of goods cost of goods Dr Dr sudhir raval yeah please I have two questions from you one is a late 80s and early 2000 you know there was a lot of hype a lot of news about cloning and gene therapy and at one point of time we thought the gene therapy will probably will cure the cancer and now we don't hear anything same thing in cloning that probably it will end up with organ cloning maybe genetic engineering pick that also I don't know what is the status probably you can highlight yeah so um I mean so that the T Cell therapies that uh that we and others are developing are Gene Therapies so um so the the there's no ifs ands or buts about that and they are Curative they are being used they are now licensed as medicines um and so um you know generally speaking there's a 10-year lag between uh the hype around uh topic and the and the reality um and this sort of fits right in there ten years ago we were talking about gene therapy these days we are deploying it we're using it in humans um there are at least six or seven maybe eight drugs that are uh FDA approved that are gene therapy drugs in fact the last multiple drugs that have been approved are gene therapy drugs including Gene therapies for uh blinding eye diseases Gene therapies for other diseases all of which were recently approved by the FDA and are slowly making their way to to other countries um these include uh Curative therapies for sickle cell anemia beta thalassemia some rare diseases all of which have now started responding to Gene therapies where there were no medicines before so that's one and the second idea that you talked about is is cloning now cloning in the tree additional sense of you know making animal copies is certainly not the has is certainly not the uh not the way that things have gone but um we not we the the I should say the scientific Community has now worked quite deeply on making um uh animal models including pigs which can be xenotransplanted into humans that work is going along quite well actually ever since the development of new tools including crispr has been going along quite well and probably will be in patients um within the next year or so so so we're there like in Jean Therapy what happened at that time in 2000 we thought there's oncogene and we will probably have a drug for that that's right so that wheel ended up in many many years not the turned out to be the case but it's turned out to be the case that you can genetically engineer the immune system to attack cancers it's a completely different uh story this is another question is just a bit different like from not from science what do you think that cell has does it have a soul or it is just a chemical reaction for Consciousness uh I think neither I think that the cell has neither a soul nor is it a chemical reaction for Consciousness it's a least living unit of life um somebody identifies other can I or another woman I don't know like you don't have to be yeah because they're either the lady in the back standing there behind please introduce yourself and then ask the question hi Dr Siddhartha this is a pleasure to meet you my name is Samara Mahendra and we have launched an integrative oncology company in India called Cairo so we propagate a lot of non-clinical therapies for oncology like nutrition Physical Therapy psychological intervention you speak a lot about nutrition can you can we speak a little bit more about that especially in a country where it still looked as something that is a good to have but we still need to build a lot of evidence supporting how nutrition and these therapies can actually help treatment and patient outcomes yeah I mean you know my my my own uh intersection with nutrition is uh I would say uh much less integrative than perhaps uh what you're setting out to do um we've been focused for a while on identifying particular vulnerabilities of cancer cells and identifying how to use diet really as a drug um and usually we've been doing this in with diets in combination with drugs so it's a very different modality we try to identify we've now actually published several uh papers in which we've identified vulnerabilities of cancer cells that depend on particular micronutrients such as particular amino acids particular hormones including insulin Etc so our intersection is very different it is um very reductive very non-hallistic um and um and um and it is now undergoing clinical trials so we're in the middle of clinical trials for that um in the arena of cancer prevention um I think there's a lot that needs to be still done uh in terms of nutrition um I I'm really not an expert on that all I can tell you is that there is a well-established and strong link between obesity and cancer um India is a country in several other countries are growing increasingly obese um and uh and we we absolutely know that uh um that an integrative approach to curbing obesity which combines both medical and non-medical approaches is is helpful um and so in in the realm of cancer prevention I think there's a you know it's not going to be micronutrient deprivation it's going to be a much more holistic approach towards or a more integrated approach towards um towards cancer prevention so I think that's the an arena where you know it's going to be very likely to have a much larger impact um than the very reductive things that we do foreign that recently one has been reading a lot about nutrition as a prevention and cure cure for cancer which is plant-based food intermittent fasting and autophagy and things like that so we are as the effective and if yes then what can be done to disseminate this knowledge to bottom of pyramid because this is a low cost solution yeah so they're very different uh so intermittent fasting is very different from plant-based foods you can you can become quite obese uh eating plant-based foods I can guarantee that um but intermittent fasting is a different story [Music] um there have been actually reviewed and there have been several strong pre-clinical papers about the role of intermittent fasting and the insulin axis on um in animal models on cancer um at least two I would say pretty well regarded papers on this um these have still been entirely in animal models and the record for translating from an animal model into humans is highly checkered um so I would just be I would caution everyone uh if you hold um the healthy skepticism that we just talked about um that most drugs that work in animals don't work in humans then you should be equally skeptical that intermittent fasting that works in animals may or may not work in humans um we'll have to find out there are multiple trials in in progress about it but as I said um in general people who believe in sort of this integrative holistic approach to to Medicine my general plea to them is that if you're going to hold one standard you have to hold the same standard for uh be consistent with standards which is that if you're going to hold the standards that drugs that work in animals don't tend to work in humans you should also hold the standard that intermediate fasting that tends to work in animals may or may not work in humans we just have to see what the data shows when when the first Clinical Trials come out there's no reason to believe one and not believe the other yeah I'll take a female next please like the red and then we'll come to the first row here thank you um hi um it was very interesting to listen to you um as someone um um and my question to you is as a mother you know we live in one of the most polluted cities in the world uh where the general aqi irrespective of whether it's winter or summer is above 100 in fact it's 250 something now and the bands on construction Etc have already been lifted um I read somewhere you know who had done some research saying that um children born in this environment this kind of pollution and children whose lungs develop in and their organs develop in this kind of pollution have permanent lung damage and damage to various organs and it's also been proof that a proven that you know as per research that I read uh that you know children born here and pregnant mothers who give birth in pollution like this um also suffer in the long run as you know the life expectancy goes down by about a year and a half ranging between a year and a half to you know whatever so um is there also a connection that is possible between living in an environment like this and you know diseases such as cancer later on in life um yeah so it's something that really concerns uh a lot that's right so um so it's been explored um but it's not been explored at the depth that we need to explore it and that's partly because there isn't a longitudinal um the biggest problem is that there isn't a long that there isn't a good longitudinal database of cancer in many of the most polluted areas of the world um we need one we need an incidence we need uh we need mortality data incidence data etc etc now some of this data exists for asthma for instance among other diseases for respiratory diseases there's a lot of data now that suggests that there's an increase in respiratory diseases there is good data for growth retardation and stunting in the context of Sanitation pollution there isn't very good data on on cancer so it's an unfortunate gap or a hole in in the in the data partly because we don't have longitudinal cancer surveys to tell us tell us this it is being rectified so at the highest levels at multi lateral organizations have now launched um as the demographics of the world change and as chronic diseases as opposed to acute infectious diseases become more and more prominent in countries like like India these questions have to be taken with with more and more seriously I mean the the funny story was for the longest time um you know the classification was um of diseases across the world was uh contagious versus non-contagious diseases that's like saying that the animal kingdom is cows and non-cows which is absurd because in fact now the so-called non-contagious diseases um are taking over I heard the other day um a statistic that more people in Tanzania will die of hypertension than they'll die of of you know the typical contagious diseases that we associate um with uh with lower income countries so as the demographics of illness change these longitudinal surveys become more and more important and and in fact there's been a there's a large multilateral effort to get these longitudinal Services covid really put a I would say a side swipe to that for a while um because of the excess mortality associated with kovic but we are coming back now to as we come back to a little bit more of an equilibrium we have to re-explore the idea of what uh what what the longitudinal service so I wouldn't be to be honest I I wouldn't be surprised if some cancers there was a link um but I it's just too early to tell there's also more question I'll take a few more but a quick intervention of my own research in India that we we have you know some of the best doctors in the world yeah but somehow research medical researchers we don't get a lot coming out of India why is there a is there a way we can solve that well number one is incentivize it uh make it uh make it uh make it easier to do make it easier to practice incentivize it at every level have you know government support for it have Federal support for it um and um and make it you know make it a real make it make it um uh you know the the Keratin stick ways of of doing this um you know a tiny country like the United Kingdom uh produces some of the the world's most valuable research uh not only epidemiological but also basic science and so forth um uh but it really does so because you know it's been it's had a long ecosystem and it you don't build these ecosystems in overnight you need a a real concerted effort to build these ecosystems in some way ways I think ironically you know the the the Techno hubs of of India Bangalore being one of them which is why we started in Bangalore Bangalore being one of them um has really enabled a certain kind of ecosystem of research um the fact that the Indian Institutes of science is there the um the Institute of genetics is there etc etc but it really requires I mean the U.S spends um you know on the order of 50 billion dollars on the NIH and another 50 odd billion dollars if you combine the Department of Defense and other uh you know various other organizations so a total of about 100 billion dollars and even so um everyone in the United States thinks that both fundamental and basic and clinical research is severely underfunded um I don't know what the numbers are for India I think it's the order of one or two or three billion odd dollars uh equivalent so um for a country of its size um we are way under the the curve of even um of even being close to um what the United States for instance wants or the United Kingdom a much smaller country yes yeah yes please introduce yourself and then I'll take one back yeah yeah I'm uh Anup Mishra a couple of disclosures before I ask my question number one I am an allopathic doctor I'm not a prominent of indigenous system of medicine and number two I am not on College uh my question is that there are some good points in indigenous system medicine one of them of course in general is a yoga but the other one which has been known quite some time was treatment of leukemias and one of the the elements which I met from that was arsenic and arsenic trioxide is the established treatment for acute perpromyeliocetic leukemia struck and you know surprisingly people don't give Credence to indigenous system medicine for that because it's known for 20 25 years at least when I was in all new student medical Sciences several patients of AML came went to ayurvedic people first and then came to us so why can't we do more research yeah and there's huge number of possibilities there so what are your thoughts about it well I mean if you're talking about I mean AML is my sort of subject so uh uh acute Pro myocytic leukemia for which arsenic trioxide works is a tiny tiny tiny fraction of all leukemias um so to make a generalization about all leukemias in fact arsenic dioxide has absolutely no effect in fact it's poisonous to the human body and all these other leukemias and is generally poisonous for other you know and has no effect or can be poisonous for other cancers if given at the wrong dose um so it just happens to be that that particular relatively rare variant of leukemia happens to have a genetic reason that it's sensitive to our Center oxide that's not to deny the fact that you know there are lots and lots of um potential uh discoveries to be made I'll come back to the same question of Standards which is that um the the standards of proof for a medicine to work or not work are have been established since the 1800s and they're quite simple they tend to you know um whether you call them whether you there's a there's a progression as it were from pre-clinical studies to clinical studies to phase one phase two and phase three studies um the um my generously to anyone who believes in any form of medicine whatever it might be is that um is that the is that that the standards be the same that we don't compromise on the standards as long as we do that I think we can explore lots and lots of different kinds of medicine and lots and lots of different kinds of interventions but we can't shift the standards around you can't say oh gosh you know um we you you'll never find an effect because the the way you're looking at it is is the wrong way because you know we have our own way of looking at uh these medical effects whenever that's happened it's caused a slippery slope in the conversation now that said this is not this is not to you know I often say that virtually all of our pharmacopoeia in medicine um including in in oncology is derived from originally from Plants it's only lately that we've been starting to make medicines that are not plant-based on plant derived that said there was an Institute that the NIH created which which whose task it was to discover medicines along the same standards using phase one phase two and phase three data from the uh from the from the natural world so from the uh from what you might call like I don't like to use this word but from the non-allopathic world the total number of drugs so they they existed as in student they've now been absorbed into another Institute but the total number of drugs that came out of that for the treatment I'm not talking about prevention prevents a different story for the treatment of cancer the total number of drugs that came out of the effort was zero they may have been looking in the wrong place they may have been doing the wrong kind of studies but they used the standards that are used to create you know or make any drugs so with all those caveats the total number of drugs that came out of that effort for treatment of diseases was a big zero there have been efforts to reinvigorate such an Institute but given that track record it's going to be hard to do that in the United States if someone's willing to fund such an effort outside I think it would be welcome but uh but thus far the the effort in the United States came up with nothing take two more questions please there's a lady in the back there I saw yes please go ahead get a mic to her please and if you can introduce yourself and I think we can keep them as short as possible and yeah it will be very short time Poonam dabas I'm basically a journalist and my question is on bio Warfare you know with so much of research and studies being done into this field there are always Rogue elements and there are lots of theories which are floating and I would like you to comment on that that the kovid itself was the kind of a bio Warfare we haven't got much information either from the who or from China which are both closed doors so would you like to comment on that yeah you know I'm being I mean endlessly um to be honest as I said it's it I'm not a covet expert I do follow the literature I I when when I when I go into some particular aspect of government I really think deeply about it I look up material deeply on it um I um if you ask me sort of what I know in terms of what I can defend based on what I know um uh in terms of the scientific literature I think the idea that it was a pure Act of Bio Warfare seems to be unlikely to me based on on what I know from science um I think the jury is out there still um whether and it's a vigorous debate going on in the United States and elsewhere that this that it was an accidental lab leak um I think that is so bio Warfare is a different story the jury is out there about an accidental lab leak the who is you very well know as a journalist um sent a team an initial team to Han to investigate whether this was a potential lab leak that team concluded that it was not a lab leak that there wasn't enough evidence and the matter seemed to be closed until the report of that team was finally released and found to be quite lacking um they had not done large parts of what seemed to be relatively obvious tracking and tracing uh etc etc the big uh red flag for the biological community at least was that there happens to be one Institute of back research um in the entire country of advanced bad research it happens to be in the same city that kovitz seems to originated from um and so that was the origin of the lab leak Theory um there have been genetic sequences that have been Advanced and if so if someone's interested I'm not the expert on this I would follow both sides of this debate uh Alina Chan uh biological researcher at the broad Institute was among the first to really raise the question of whether this was a lab leak or not her work has been um you know has been contradicted by a work of others very respected virologists who've said that that lab League theories does not hold this is a back and forth that's going going on I should say that I don't know Alina personally but I have been following all her work and all the initial Publications that emerged from that work the sad story about all of this is that she has been the target of really horrible trolling um on social media and he's been really targeted by social and non-social media for bringing up the even bring up the question um so I don't know the answer um uh I don't claim to know the answer I do know that this whole question is being Revisited very actively that probably is probably you know on the order of one to two papers on one side of the debate and on the other side of the debate every month published in highly respected journals that make the argument that this was a lab leak or this was not a lab leak I think that no one knows for sure um and I don't know whether it's it remains politically feasible or not um to re-explore the question I'm going to say one last comment which is um the only thing that one gains um from this debate uh there are two things that one gains from this debate one thing is that um if there's even a suspicion of a lab leak it just means that um it just means that we need to have better systems of of uh of laboratory protection and that's a given you know that's a given in the sense that that's a win-win situation it's not like someone's going to say let's relax the rules around you know dumping things down the down your down the sink um if anything it means that we have to be more Vigilant that's one that's a good that comes out of it and secondly um there has been a lot of political pressure on China to be more transparent in its uh in whatever it does in its in its research I think that's the second good thing that's come out of out of that so whether it's a library Theory or not time will it will determine um I can't tell because it seems to me that there's sort of one push and one pull in either direction every month and it seems to be that it seems to be ultimately no direct line of evidence uh conclusive evidence in either direction but but short answer is the who equipped and you know to do this to actually I mean obviously the political pressure aside and get if they get the access can they actually Implement these standards that you think are they a qualified and you know good enough to do it um so so the who um could have been good enough to do it um I did read the original report I thought it was lacking um um so um you know unfortunately you get only one chance um at settling the issue and that chance was somewhat squandered so um that's where the matter will have to rest at least for now until there is a global uh pressure to reopen all the boxes and reopen all the files much of which may have been destroyed yeah the question here please I'm an endocrinologist in Delhi uh you know as endocrinologist we've seen a huge change in disease profile I've been practicing almost 40 years and there's a there's a huge change in the way diabetes used to present you spoke about obesity so many the disease profile has completely changed in many ways much more Western disease profile than what we were taught as Indian music profiles the same changes have taken place somewhat in the cancer profile in India when we were students then colon cancer didn't happen in India prostate cancer was not common in India we know all those things have changed and some of them we in our field we always say it's your lifestyle that's doing it you're eating the wrong stuff you're not exercising enough and there are other factors like maybe pollution as the lady mentioned do you have a sense or is it just that we are living longer well so I think it's multifactorial I've talked about this extensively in multiple interviews and talk about it in the first book as well um so I think um certainly extension lifespan is has something to do with it but I think it's not the only thing that has that has to do with it so as you as you as you can tell it's not just the um it's not um the change in in the number of cancers it is a change in the um as you as you might call it the Venn diagram or the uh diagram sorry the pie chart of the kind of cancers the age at which the cancers are presenting and and so forth um in India we're seeing a for instance I'll just give you one example a lot of um young patients with multiple myeloma um which is and um relatively uh people who've relatively experienced in the field um um have raised the question whether there is any a different variant and maybe related to some endemic viral infection and it's a theory that it's plausible it's a plausible Theory because it's a that's a cancer which has to do with B cells which are the First Responders to microbes and so forth so there's a changing epidemiology in in India um uh lung cancer we we know the obvious culprit there is of course changes in smoking habits etc etc lung cancer was a virtually unheard of disease um you know 50 60 years ago 70 years ago lung cancer in women was absolutely unheard of in the 1900s and then there was an epidemic in the United States as women started smoking or were enticed to smoke um colorectal cancer is another great example where I think there's a strong link um you know when um Dennis Burkett went to um went to Africa again some of this is anecdotal evidence he saw no evidence so ever of colorectal cancer and there the suspicion is it's related to to diet endometrial cancer has become again the epidemiology of endometrial cancers changed ovarian cancer both related to obesity so the the biggest driver clearly is the increase in lifespan but if you look with a with a deeper microscope as it were a demographic microscope there are broader changes that are very clearly evident that have to do with changes in in various things okay I think we're running out of time lots more questions here but I'm sorry I'll have to I have to cut short and we because we've taken a lot of time of Dr Mukherjee I'd like to end with the rapid fire as well okay um yeah and I told you it was a firing squad better the bullet reaches you you'll have you know you'll have come up with some detail that'll block it so I'm sure um it's going to be a little bit you know from left field but still play bear with me you know you said in the book you don't believe in rebirth um but do you believe in destiny uh you mean you mean predetermined Destiny yes no do you believe in do you believe that there's life on other planets yes um your favorite scientist Albert Einstein why uh general theory of relativity okay now I'm going to try to get you to play a game okay it's called use reduce stop okay so I'm not asking for scientific explanation Lodge none of that I'm just imagine you're talking to your dearest loved one somebody who you know you just your family whoever and I'm going to tell you a substance and would you tell me to use it reduce using it or stop using it okay okay and this is the context of cancer because we don't know what really is carcinogenic now what isn't so the easy one tobacco you'd say stop stop microwaves uh use plastic packaged drinking water uh don't know okay um plastic packaged food any plastic package food I don't know but if your loved one is eating from a plastic package food you would not comment so um aside the answer is I don't know um I can tell you what I do in my own practice yes which is that I use but I don't heat you don't heat okay um Dairy use um artificial food colors uh don't use artificial sweeteners don't use but not for cancer reasons I don't use it for reasons that have to do with Endocrinology more than anything else 5G 5G as in cell phones yes use use okay cell phone towers cell phones yes you use okay Wi-Fi routers use hair dyes stop a lot of reaction I got the h Profile right now from that response um silver cling foil so the what silver cling foil a tea actin foil you mean tin foil as I use use okay well this is uh this has been great so thank you so much thank you for your time thank you for being here this is very awesome [Applause] thank you Dr Mukherjee for session enriching conversation thank you Anand and devyani for stirring it so well uh I'd like to invite Mr Rakesh Chopra chairman of Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Center uh to present a little book of flowers to Dr Mukherjee security [Applause] I'd now like to invite Mr Raj kamalja Chief editor the Indian Express to present a Memento from the express group do we have Raj here it's a portrait by our illustrator shivaji day [Applause] I'd like to also mention our partners here today's Ada was presented by Rajiv Gandhi Cancer Institute and Research Center it was co-presented by fostima and frr immigration and in association with the ones I'd also like to thank our Hospitality partner the Meridian please join us for some cocktails thank you anyway [Music] foreign [Music] [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: -_2SPU3GqB4 (https://youtu.be/-_2SPU3GqB4) ===

hey everyone welcome to the drive podcast I'm your host Peter attia hey Sid so great to to see you again it's been a long time since we've seen each other in person the last time we sat down for one of these of course it was in person and we didn't have video now we've got video but we're you know in a different time zone um congratulations on the success of your most recent book um for folks listening or viewing give us a sense of kind of where this book fits into the prior work we talked a great length about one of your books the Emperor of all maladies but there was a book that followed that and then of course there's this so maybe put this in the context of those books well so um it's an interesting so you know this is part of a Trilogy and possibly a quartet that I'm I'm working on um broadly called the life series and the attempts of these books is to try to explain and understand how we understand life and how we're manipulating life uh living things obviously particularly humans um and so in an odd way um the the place to begin to some extent the trilogy right now so the first book The Emperor all Melody is the second the Gene and now the song of the cell um would be to probably start with the gene now the gene being the the the least unit or the smallest unit of information um uh and then realize as you end the gene that that genes which are encoded in in DNA the molecule DNA are lifeless they don't have any autonomous life a gene is just a molecule it's a chemical and it's the it's the cell that brings it to life and without the cell there would be nothing all of that code would be useless I liken this to the the the human genome um or any genome to a score of Music um but a score is lifeless there's no music in a score it's just uh it's the code you need a musician to bring it to life and the cell is that musician and hence the word hence the title of the book The Song of the cell um the cell brings it to life um so the second book to some extent is the cell um and then the third book bizarrely enough is the first book uh it's sort of like Star Wars the prequel to the sequel to the prequel um where you learn about what happens when cells become average so that would be one way to read the book uh read the series of books start with the gene um move on to the second unit which is the cell and finally end up with the sort of dysfunctional Labyrinth cell and what happens to it when it's genes genes go Haywire a completely different way would be to read them as they appeared um and the reason behind that is that they uh progressively um go downwards I mean the first book was of course a history of cancer and cancer therapy they progressively go downwards and delve deeper and deeper into mysteries of that history you know missing pieces what did we not understand about cancer uh obviously genes and genetics um what we did we not understand about um cancer in terms of its cell biology when the cancer genome Atlas was for instance completed and what do we understand now um so um so this they can also be read chronologically from the first to the third which you would get a different kind of story and that's what's interesting about it you can read it by the way it's possible that my questions statement here is um a bit of uh tainted by a bit of recency bias because I read them in order and of course I've just finished reading the cell because you know we decided on a very last minute basis we were going to try to do this podcast last last minute for the way my podcast Works which is months of preparation so you know I was sort of you know reading the book in the period of the last week and a half which I enjoyed immensely but here's the thing I felt more surprised and in awe of the characters in this book than the previous books and that might sound crazy because you'd think God the you know decoding the human genome what a Herculean feat but in many ways the characters of this story blew my mind even more because of the time and the era in which they had to do their science there were fewer tools at their disposal is that does that statement surprise you or how does that resonate with you well so it it's not surprising um it's because um the characters in this book um are enunciating things that are I think very fundamental now with if you if you take for instance a comparison if you were to do a historical comparison with the history of genetics so you know you would start potentially in the in the scientific word you would start with Mendel um and you know Gregor Mendel of course being the the the Pioneer here and then there's an enormous period of Silence uh that follows Mendo almost 40 years in which basically nothing happens um and then you know his work is picked up by other people um ultimately picked up by folks like Thomas Morgan and others um but for a long period of time nothing happens and nothing's relevant um here what you see in this book is very different because you see a sort of continuation um of development so once the microscope is invented in the 17th century um you see from the 17th century a kind of gradual blossoming um of of the science um ultimately ending up with you know someone like Rudolph worked out um who who can make really really audacious statements that you know are missing in the history of genetics until much later um the audacious statement that workout makes is every um every function that we carry out uh regardless of its origin and regardless of what that function is is a consequence of cellular physiology we ourselves and everything that we do is cellular is a consequence of something happening in some cells this conversation is a consequence of something happening in some cell so that's one piece that's statement one and then you get the other Converse statement which is equally audacious in which he says that every um every illness is um the consequence of some cell behaving incorrectly um and these statements are made in the late 19th century what sort of mid to late 19th century then in fact almost contemporaneous with uh with Mendel so you have an enormous sets of leaps in cell biology um which is why this this book might feel sort of you know that these characters are are doing things while sort of you know genetics is still plotting its way trying to understand sort of Mendel's first very important paper and this a remarkable 40 Years of Silence whereas in cell biology there isn't that 40 Years of silence and I think also just maybe we take it for granted sometimes today but the Ingenuity that was necessary to even build the tool to permit the visualization I mean we just lost over the fact that in the 17th century we're putting together microscopes but you you actually describe in some detail what the process is like to grind the glass to create the lens to even have the window into this otherwise microscopic and invisible to our eye uh piece of physiology well it's an it's it's an incredible I tried to make one uh myself uh I tried to make uh one of Lewin Hook's uh microscopes um and I can tell you you know it was not um an easy cost it was a it was a disaster um and he made 500 of them um these are single lens microscopes and they're about uh you know this big it's about the size of I would say a half a sheet of paper um and the lens is literally the smaller than the size of your eyeball um and so you have this a sense in which you have an enormous amount of Labor of Love put into making this thing that's mounted with tiny screws and tiny little apertures so that when you look through your eye through the lens to in a droplet of water um you can actually see these you know microscopic forms so so there's a there's an enormous sense of wonder about how people even began to um to see these and how um how they found them and and what what the consequences of that of that finding were and are people who listen to my podcast are probably used to an idea that I talk about um and you have come across this now said because you were kind enough to be one of the people who read my book but I talk about this transition from medicine 1.0 to Medicine 2.0 and then of course where I hope we're going is the transition from 2.0 to 3.0 and I typically talk about medicine 1.0 to 2.0 as two big events happened and um they weren't you know momentary events they were transitions or processed one was of course the way we changed about the way we changed the way we thought right so it was the Scientific Revolution so once we introduced the scientific method late 15th century we had a new way of thinking about observation and hypothesis and all of a sudden the idea of bad humors and all that stuff sort of went away but really the big moment became germ Theory once we understood microbial agents and that we had a way to treat them we really leapfrogged into the era of modern medicine and if you look at the mortality rates as a result of that it's outstanding I mean there has been no bigger reduction in human mortality than the reduction of death that comes from infectious diseases what I had never really thought of until I read your book was that couldn't have happened without this deep understanding of the cell I mean it's it's obvious when I say it that way but in effect this book describes how medicine went from effectively witchcraft into where we are today and and of course you're gonna we're gonna talk about this in more detail by the way but but I mean does that make sense to you oh absolutely makes sense to me in the sense that it makes sense because the um the the you know the introduction of of uh of being able to ultimately see germs um and connect germ Theory with uh with human disease um as you say it took medicine from witchcraft to the modern era um you know think of any procedure childbirth um uh any surgical procedure anything that we do and think of the effect of antibiotics on that procedure and think of how important it is that that these antibiotics are now available and and the life saved I mean just childbirth Alone um uh the the capacity of saving lives to antibiotics has been enormous and has just really been transformative in terms of you know again as you say moving medicine from from Witchcraft and and and that's because what's astonishing in in in this in the piece that I write about microbial uh biology and the discovery of microbes Peter is that microbes was were imagined in the abstract uh long before they were seen so um what's interesting is you know people like Lister the great surgeon who began to sterilize his instruments um folks like um you know and I have a small biography of them in the book uh folks like Samuel Weiss um almost ignored by medical history now but the seminal wise discovered that that you know the people that that doctors were transmitting microbes tell the story you know I have it in my book you have it in your book I I'm really glad that more and more people are writing about him because it always breaks my heart when someone dies without their do and some of us is the example of that and it's it's a heartbreaking story but it's a remarkable example of this transition so Samuel Weiss was a junior obstetrician in Vienna um it's important that he was so Junior and he made a very uh important uh and Incredibly important Discovery um so Samuel Weiss was delivering children and there were two maternity Awards what one in word twos um and this is why it's important in medicine I came to listen to your patients you know the famous adage in medicine is the most important question that you ever ask in medicine when you're trying to diagnose a patient is to ask the patient what do you think the problem is um and it's the one we forget the most right doctors never ask that question but usually the patient will tell you the problem is they'll say you know I think I have an infection in my lungs or you know I think I'm you know depressed because of X or Y reasons um because I lost my father so so IL wise learned to ask people uh of us of a bizarre aberration that was going on which is that in world one the the infant the maternal mortality rates from childbirth were uh astronomically High whereas in word two same Sim similarly same people same women coming in were much much lower and he asks a very simple and he knew this because he the you know at least The Story Goes whether it's apocryphal or Not The Story Goes that um that in world one um people you know mothers would beg to to be admitted into into the the safer World while they would beg not to be admitted to the where you know they would have a 30 mortality rate or a 20 mortality rate one out of five women this is an incredible number if you think about it so some of us began to answer ask the question why and he looked at all sorts of variables um he was sort of a classical epidemiologist so he looked at all sorts of variables and the variable that he found was that in in the first word where there was a high mortality rate in in childbirth the um it was run by doctors and these doctors he figured out were running between autopsy rooms so doing autopsies on probably the very patients that they had killed um and then running and then without cleaning their hands um delivering babies essentially examining patients delivering babies Etc were two on the other hand was run by nurses nurses were not doing autopsies not touching any decaying or dead material and there was no mortality so sample wise made the hypothesis again remember this is the junior obstetrician in Vienna made this hypothesis that what doctors were doing is they were transferring some and this is these are his words some material substance from the decaying decomposing dead bodies that they had autopsy into the bodies of the women that they were examining internally and thereby transmitting that material substance and that material substance was was the source of the putrefaction or the infection that these women were getting and he insisted that the doctors washed their hands with a diluted sort of a a diluted version of bleach and he saw that suddenly now the mortality rate plummeted and so he made this argument now remember he didn't have a microscope he didn't have this is all in the abstract but he made this argument that this material substance was responsible for this what we what was then called child red fever or maternal uh infections and the transfer of the material substance could be removed by washing hands by hand washing and so he in the abstract sense he had basically founded germ Theory yeah I mean completely prescient yeah an incredible aggression and the idea of a material substance that's what's important about it um right it wasn't just bad air in a vague it was on bad air it was not you know uh bad humors it was not it was a material substance and of course if you had if he had the capacity to look down the microscope he would have found out that that material substance was in fact uh nothing else but uh but uh web germs and the sad thing we you know the the the the sort of the the epilogue to the story is the guy dies in an insane asylum basically having been ridiculed he's ridiculed he the doctors don't want to the last thing that the doctors want to do is to admit that they've been you know um uh infecting other women so he's Sam otherwise is ridiculed and he's sent off to an insane asylum and ultimately he dies um in in impoverished and and never Vindicated yeah it's um again medicine is full of these stories but but yes this is this is what it was about the book that really captivated me was this thing that I've taken for granted so so much you know of my existence in in medicine is what really allowed this this Leapfrog and frankly far more so than the genetic Revolution I mean we could sit and talk about has the genetic Revolution delivered on its promise I mean in some ways yes in some ways no we thought of course in whatever it was 22 years ago when the human genome was coded that was basically going to be an equal LeapFrog forward it turned out not to be we'll come back to talk about some genetic stuff but I want to go back to a question that you pose in the book that I had never contemplated and I have not been able to stop thinking about it and I love it which is foreign what's the evolutionary drive for multicellular life so like let's talk through kind of yeah we go from these single cell organisms that have all of their own Evolution built into them and then look at the complexity that we are today I'd love you go through this very elegantly well I mean it's the let's pause for a second to contemplate single salad organisms so they are bacteria you know uh protozoa yeast Etc they're extraordinarily successful you can't imagine how successful they are they live in virtually every environment that you can think of you know they live in boiling water they live in thermal vents they live in inside volcanoes they live I mean how successful is a single cell organism so you could the the bizarre question that you should ask is not why uh you should ask why we exist at all why is yes why what is the reason that you know we we have about you know several trillion cells or trillions of cells how did we why do we exist why not why aren't we all bacteria um and people have been trying to answer the question and the initial idea in the 80s was that there was a massive leak evolutionary leap from single-celled organisms to multicellular organisms but what's surprising is that if you look at evolutionary history and if you look at all the evidence from Evolution history it turns out that multicellularity evolved from single-celled organisms not once but independently multiple times and it's it's you know it used to be called a major transition it actually turns out to be a minor transition in other words there was a great evolutionary drive towards becoming multicellular and you can ask the question then well if single cell organisms are so damn successful why ever be a multicellular organism the quick answer is we don't know but all the evidence suggests that it has to do with um several possibilities the leading possibility is predation so it's much more higher it's much harder for um a predator to eat a multicellular organism for several reasons one of them is that it's bigger number two is that it has defense systems number three it is that it can move away from predators through specialized apparatus apparati um so that's one idea the other idea is is food and resources multicellular organisms can have you know can act ACCESS food and resources and there are other ideas about how multicellular organisms came to exist and essentially conquered the world as we know but that said single-celled organisms are still the Champions we are just a minor fixture uh in the world if you took by weight all the single-celled organisms in the world and their diversity uh you would be shocked at how successful they still are remind us what ratcliffe's experiments with yeast demonstrated I I that was I mean I I had never heard of that experiment before so it was uh you know I'm reading this like I'm reading a thriller novel well William Radcliffe was a professor um uh who studies this transition this evolutionary transition from single cell to multicellular organisms and he did this actually an extraordinary simple experiment and he sort of just thought about thought about it uh over Christmas uh with travisano his uh his advisor he said well what if we just take some yeast um and culture them and we um we basically allow them to grow and and so remember you start single-celled organisms and we just collect the sediment so anything that's multi-celled is obviously going to sink to the bottom of a flask we collect the sediment and then we allow that sediment to grow again in another cycle of evolution so this is sort of Darwin in a bottle um so we allow that to evolve another cycle collect a sediment allow that to evolve another cycle and buy about 30 or 40 such Cycles he found that the yeast had evolved and this is astonishing I have pictures of this in the book into these sort of snowflake like multi-fingered multicellular forms and really a new organism a multicellular yeast and what's interesting about them is that when he let them be by themselves so no more recollection no more sedimentation they continue to propagate as multicellular yeast so in other words a he had basically created a new life form um which is multicellular and what is even more interesting is that when he looked at these multicellular yeast they started to acquire specialized functions so you would imagine that one way that these multicellular yeast would reproduce is that one cell could butt off and create a new multi-fingered multicellular use that would be one way that these organisms could be produced but that's not how they reproduce the way they reproduce is that a specialized series of cells that sit in the middle of this snowflake commit a purposeful cellular depth and I repeat the word they commit a purposeful cellular suicide such that this the snowflake can break into two parts two snowflakes and grow out new fingers um so this organism has now evolutionarily speaking learned the word learned implies that it has some Consciousness but that's not true true this is just an evolutionary process it has created a specialized Furrow in its Middle where these cells basically can divide into two forms and what's more is that he's now practically has done many versions of this experiment he's done it with different organisms he's done with algae he's done with various other organisms and what he finds is that there's even more specialization so these um these new creatures that's the only thing I can call them one little channels to deliver nutrients they form pores they form secondary structures so he he's really sort of created a new kind of life and just by doing nothing I mean just by allowing it to evolve naturally and remember this is 30 40 Cycles uh which may be you know 60 80 90 days so you can imagine over the course of you know several billion years of History the extraordinary amount of diversity and specialization that could happen in evolution that leads to people like you and me having trillions of cells very committed to doing one thing or another thing or many other things you know because my kids who were my my boys are five and eight at this point they're as you can probably imagine obsessed with Dinosaurs so we're non-stop watching every imaginable thing I you know I I paleontologists are the most important people in the world at this point I can't help but wonder when I watch these Recreations of what we assume dinosaurs to have looked like I mean at least we know about their size how did Evolution allow something so large to be you know in existence so many millions of years ago and are we basically seeing a correction now in other words was was that just the pendulum swinging too far towards multicellular where you know boy you hear you have things that can really defend themselves that can really get away that can really go after prey but of course they're too sensitive to a reduction in food or something like that or is that just totally unrelated and had it not been for you know volcanic eruptions and things like that maybe we just wouldn't be here today and dinosaurs would be the sentient uh higher you know um higher order creature a little bit outside my my faith my pay grade in some ways but um but you know there's lots of theories uh I'm certainly not a paleontologist so there are lots of theories about the the extinction of dinosaurs um what we do know is that that that you know that these life forms were also very successful in their environments the problem was as many people have hypothesized um that um that they they sort of reached a maximal capacity of size um and um smaller mammals or mammal-like creatures um were much became much more adapted or adaptable to the environment but there are a thousand theories about dinosaur extinction um including uh changes in the atmosphere it changes you know meteors and various other volcanoes and events which you know you can read in in most paleontology yeah I just I just wonder if there's something about their size that became their downfall Beyond you know the obvious external factors and it just made me think of that when I was reading that segment about yeah there's a beautiful essay if I remember correctly by Stephen Gould um where he talks about a natural biophysical limitation on size and that's because the volume to surface area of any creature uh reaches a place in uh where the volume to surface area becomes no longer sustainable because the the the the surface area of a Preacher um does is no longer able to deliver the oxygen and the nutrients required for aerobic living yeah um I'd encourage people to read it um I don't remember the name of the essay but it will find it it has to do with the rhinoceros and what the size limits of creatures uh can or cannot be interesting so let's go back to Something in in the book where you talk about the four types of cell therapy um when you spell it out it sort of makes sense but I'd never considered this before um I think it's I think it's I think it's an illustrative framework for people to think about the era of medicine that we live in was so what are these four areas of cellular therapy you know I tried to create a typology of uh the four types of of uh ways in which we could use cells as medicines um the first is the simplest one of all which is to use a drug or a substance to change the behavior of a cell so the simplest example would be an antibiotic you're using a drug to kill a microbial cell while you're sparing normal human cells so that's one the the second one is um the use of um the transfer of cells from one body to another body without any modification the simplest example of that would be blood transfusion so you're transferring red blood cells piglets and other cells from one body to another body for therapeutic effect but you're not essentially changing the cell itself the third is the use of a cell either transferred or by itself in a dish in a bioreactor in a chamber to synthesize something so I remember I said that that DNA is inner it's a lifeless molecule if you put it inside a cell in the right context the right cell in the right context the cell will start making proteins out of DNA and those proteins could be very useful so insulin for instance you can only make insulin in cells um or you can that's how insulin is generally made um so antibodies are made by cells the you know the antibody perceptin that you use in breast cancer is made by cells so that's a third use and the fourth and the finals is the one that you know is is coming up and and now becoming more and more prominent as we as we move into this new era and that is the use of a cell where you make a genetic modification in a cell and then either transplant it or or use it for a therapeutic uh reason um so for instance uh car T cells which I'm sure we'll talk about are examples of a genetically modifying T cells and putting them into a human body um I've been doing as you very well know a series of experiments on on bone marrow transplants in which we genetically modify the bone marrow uh using crispr and other techniques and then transferring them into human bodies um and and essentially creating a a genetically engineered cells now people let's finish up a little bit on that last Point people often talk about gene therapy and I always remind them that gene therapy is really Cell Therapy uh if you put the gene in the wrong cell in the wrong place at the wrong time you get nothing you get the you get the disaster um so gene therapy is really a mechanism to put a gene inside a cell and that would be the fourth the typology as it were and then the book goes through elements of these four typologies uh examples and elements of these four typologies as medicines well let's touch on a few of them I you know because you and I don't have the ability to sit here for the next three days which is what it would take to do each of these their their appropriate service there are a handful that I really want to to talk about so let's talk about the story of of Jesse gelsinger because that is one of the earliest examples of you know gene therapy in a human we could talk about what went wrong but let's let's use it let's use Jesse's story just as much to explain the state of the technology at the time the vectors the vehicles the methods by which genes were transferred so um you know let's just start with kind of what disease did Jesse have why was gene therapy viewed as the the um the solution as opposed to whatever the other three methods would have offered Jesse so Jesse had a genetic disease uh he was a young kid I think 14 15 years old 16 maybe um he was a young kid um and uh you know I've interviewed his father I interviewed uh I've had a very very moving interview with his with his father um but nonetheless Jesse was a young kid he um had a a defect in an enzyme uh which uh is related to the processing of ammonia um and uh ammonia-related substances in in the body um and so um uh the idea back then um and we're now talking uh uh I think it's about 22 years ago yes about 2 000 yeah yeah two thousands um at at the University of Pennsylvania the idea was that if they could create a virus uh which would then go to Jesse's liver um and start making this the correct version of the gene um then the uh then Jesse's disease would be ameliorated so they created a virus um that they thought was going to be harmless um it was a variant of an adenovirus and then they genetically modified that adenovirus to now include the corrected version of the gene that Jesse had a problem with um and then they Infuse that virus into Jesse's body hoping that the virus would go and infect because viruses infect cells and deliver its cargo the cargo would be the corrected Gene um and thereby correct Jesse's disease um so that was the that was the idea behind behind that therapy let's explain two things before we go on with the story um we we didn't say this earlier so I think it's worth clarifying we don't really consider viruses in the same category as bacteria yeast fungi why is that what is it about viruses that do we consider them living things are they not living things on their own I mean they basically just can train contain DNA and RNA but they're sort of parasites in it they need us to replicate so that's right so viruses are not they don't meet the criteria of of living things um they are uh essentially uh uh a strand of RNA or two strands of RNA or multiple strands of RNA or DNA uh that have been packaged usually with an envelope and with some decorated with some proteins on top but they themselves by themselves they can't reproduce they can't make copies of themselves which is one of the reasons that they're not considered living the only way they can reproduce is they when they go and they go and attach themselves herbs to cells let's say to human cells or any other cells and then they use the reproduction apparatus the duplication apparatus and the reproduction apparatus and the synthetic apparatus that's present in the cell to make copies of themselves and once they've made copies of themselves they butt out of the cell um and then they go and infect more cells and make more copies of themselves and so forth so that's that's what a virus is and in Jesse gelsinger's case the idea was that this virus would essentially infect his cells and create now but it would insert because the wires were genetically modified it would insert the its genetic payload which consisted of the normal gene into into Jesse's liver cells the liver cells would now start making the protein that was defective in in Jesse's case it was Gene this is gene therapy and then by the abide in doing so it would reverse his his relatively mild but his his disease so what what happened then they used this adenovirus they injected him and it went pretty bad pretty quick yeah so um a rather terrible thing happened and again I have a very very moving testimony from his father um which is in the gene a little bit in this book but but really in the gene a a terrible thing happened so um in retrospect we think what happened is that um Jesse mounted a very very vigorous immune response a virus is a foreign object a foreign body um and you mount an immune response to it especially if you for for whatever reason have been exposed to that virus before and people now suspect we don't know for sure that first you know adenoviruses cause common colds because they you know in circulation um there's a suspicion that Jesse had been exposed to that virus uh the the the wild form of advice uh before um perhaps through a common cold or something like that and his immune system went music because it was now recognizing not one virus particle but millions of particles suddenly uh into his body his immune system went berserk and when the immune system goes berserk like that you basically have terrible consequences because your body is recognizing yourselves as far and the virus is more and the you know it goes on what I call a kind of immune Rampage um and that immune Rampage can kill you and unfortunately Jesse died from the consequences of this uh very hyperactive risk immune response raised against that virus and and died and in fact the whole field of gene therapy was frozen for almost a decade as we learned to slowly understand the cause of that death and how we could prevent it in other people and so I think in response the field said look we need to look at slightly more immune protected or privileged sites to to dip our toes back in the water and and so so tell folks a little bit about what's a safer place to maybe consider gene therapy as as the field moves closer to that well there are many things that have happened it's not just safe places I'll give you some examples again I'll try to create a typology for you um so one thing you can do is you can uh there are safe harbors in the body by say fibers I mean places that the immune system doesn't usually reach easily um so it just by chance that retina turns out to be one of them uh there's not a lot of immune cell infiltration into the retina so you have a chance to use gene therapy and in fact there are now several Gene therapies that have been approved um that allow you to insert um or inject viruses so that you can get um some corrected Gene that's missing or abnormal in in the retina so that's one place there's some other places in the body it turns out by coincident the testes is another place although we've not used that for gene therapy so that's one thing you could do the other thing you can do is you can actually there are new drugs that can dampen down down or tack down the immune response so you can think of the immune response as a dial what you can do is you can dial the immune response down so that the immune response doesn't respond so briskly uh to the gene therapy you can hide the virus so you can make a virus such that your body has not seen such a virus before so you can actually use a novel kind of virus that has not been that won't raise a Brisk immune response the fourth thing you can do is you can actually give the gene therapy in small doses it's called hyperfactionation so that uh fractionation small fractions so that the immune system doesn't again go berserk seeing this massive bolus of a dose of virus so those are some of the strategies and they've been very successful so that now um you know the the number of deaths from this hyperactive immune response still remain um but they're much much much more controlled than in than in Jessie jasmber's times so you alluded to an example earlier of of car T cells um but I think it's you know one of the great successes of cancer when it comes to treating uh cd19 or B cell cancers um let's let's use that as an example to explain um how gene therapy can can work in that regard well so cartesa is a very special example of gene therapy so in a car T Cell uh what happens is that you extract T cells from a human being who has cancer um you extract their normal T cells and you use gene therapy to weaponize them so that they can attack cells including cancer cells so you're essentially turning the T Cell a T cell is part of the immune system its job is to hunt out and kill uh foreign cells including cells that have been infected by viruses or foreign cells that have somehow entered the body that's their job that's the job of a T Cell it's a it's a it's a Cell It's a foreign cell detector built into your body so now you take that T cell and and weaponize it to recognize the cancer cells as foreign and then you re-inject them you grow them in a Petri dish in the laboratory and you re-inject them into the body um and you know our laboratory has done a lot of this work we are now um uh doing this in in India um the the costs of of doing this are astronomical in the United States um almost 500 000 to a million dollars uh per person we're trying to reduce that cost dramatically 24 perhaps even 50 fold in India using new technologies Etc we've treated about 11 12 patients already and we've just released the data it looks very very very good um and so they're usually used in blood cancers like lymphoma leukemia and myeloma they've not been so successful in solid tumors for reasons that we don't fully understand that we're still trying to understand but that's what a car T cell is it's a weaponized T cell that goes and kills cells in your cancer cells in your body said what what is the difference why why is there a 20 to 50 fold reduction in cost doing this in India as opposed to the United States because this is of course one of the jugular issues with oncology is marginal treatments not that I'm saying car T cell is marginal it's actually one of the few beacons of success but cancer is full of marginal treatments you know extend median Survival by two months at a cost of a hundred thousand dollars how much of that is just a structural American problem versus um sort of uh you know people that are able to go outside of the existing channels of IP uh some of it is a structural American problem and some of it is not so um obviously the structural American problem is that um for reasons that we're we are trying to still investigate uh 90 of drugs including drugs in the cancer space fail and pharmaceutical companies make the argument that they are trying to recoup the r d costs the research and development costs of those Fair drugs with the ones that are successful now that's a complicated and I would say somewhat specious argument because you could ask you could say to them well why do these drugs fail in the first place is it because drugs always fail is it because you didn't understand something about the human body that you uh therefore took this drug all the way to spend Millions perhaps even billions of dollars on the drug um so that's one reason um the second reason is so so that would be the standard argument the second reason is that car keys are intrinsically expensive to make um their success rates are incredible so these are not just one month two months survival my book begins with the story of Emily Whitehead she was seven when she was treated with cartoon therapy she's now 17 or 16 applying to college completely cured so you have a situation in which these are these are miraculous drugs um you you know we've seen people who've been had terrible leukemia essentially eradicated leukemia forever um and become cured the problem is that they're intrinsically hard to make to weaponize the T cells you need to make a virus that virus is expensive to make it's labor intensive the quality control that's required is much much greater than you know making aspirin or making any other tablet so um and then of course growing the T cells you have to grow them in an incredibly sterile environment um you know where you have to basically put on a hazmat suit to go in um it's called a GMP facility but it's a highly highly sterile environment it has to be monitored it has to be checked for you know that a single bacteria or a fungal infection in that flask of a T Cell will now basically take that entire batch away you you can't give that give those back so there are some intrinsic expenses um now you ask the question why how can you reduce the cost well we reduce the cost by several ways one is that we um basically we've learned to make the virus much in a much cheaper way we've reduced the cost of uh you know the the patent burden um by essentially I I I think by really making successful products and not spending millions of dollars on unsuccessful products so we don't have to recoup all that r d cost um we've changed the machinery um we've changed the way the cells are harvested and finally of course hospital treatment and therapy in India is much cheaper to start off with so that you know adding them all together um comes to you know almost a 10 40 to 24 reduction in God so let's now use another example of gene therapy which is maybe the harder of the problems which is you have a person more like Jesse where they have a germline mutation that results in a pathology yep and the goal is as an adult you know let's pick sickle cell anemia as an example um in some way sickle cell is so amazing that one single amino acid difference can have such catastrophic consequences on the life of a person but you want to now just change that I mean it's a single amino acid it's very you know we know exactly what genes drive that how does one go about doing that and where are we in the um in the realm of approaching success there um so um fantastic new results in sickle cell anemia um published in very major journals and will continue to get published so ancient disease as you know single amino acid mutation if you inherit two copies then you get sickle cell anemia terrible disease your blood cells in low offensive environments form sickles you get you know they basically clog up it's like Plumbing clogging up um and you get essentially what you might consider sort of micro Strokes all over your small uh the small blood vessels in your body terrible pain um associated with this um so the answer would be in gene therapy you know what if we could change the uh the the mutated Gene so there are two or three approaches that have been so far tried one is um using new technologies uh Gene editing Technologies to basically change both copies of the gene to now make them into normal so take out your bone marrow which is where blood is made um change the gene from the abnormal Gene to the normal sickle normal hemoglobin Gene um and then reinfuse that back into the into the patient so that's a gene correction strategy there's another strategy which is very attractive and and fascinating um and I'll just briefly mention it so it turns out that the fetus the human fetus um has a special kind of hemoglobin which is different from adult hemoglobin and the reason it's different is that the fetus has to extract oxygen from Mom's blood and Mom's blood um when by the time it reaches the fetus has already been depleted of oxygen because it's gone through her body so this is called fetal hemoglobin um and so um basically the fetus has a special form of hemoglobin the oxygen carrier in blood that can even extract oxygen out of mom's blood um and so another approach to sickle cell anemia is to forget about the sickle Gene problem and basically in an adult somehow reactivate or Express or make a field hemoglobin um in that case you don't need to correct the gene the G you leave the gene as it is you just make fetal hemoglobin which is very very Avid as an oxygen uh oxygen delivery machine and the cells don't sickle anymore because they don't have this this oxygen problem and that too has been successful there have been several trials now showing that if you activate fetal hemoglobin uh you can do that so just to summarize then you can either do gene therapy to um Express the corrected version of the sickling Gene that would be the gene is called beta Global uh that has been performed the second approach is to use Gene editing technology to change the the gene back to its normal form the third approach is to reactivate fetal hemoglobin um in adults to essentially correct the the hemoglobin defect and all three are being all three of them are in trials and all three have shown various measures of success my my impression is that during our lifetime we'll see a cure a permanent cure for sickle cell anemia so so this kind of dovetails nicely into I think a term that most people have heard of but I think that the details of this are pretty important and this is the idea of of crispr now I haven't had Jennifer Dowden on the podcast yet I would love to at some point so we don't need to necessarily go into the great depths of of crispr but I think some history is probably relevant especially as it pertains to the topic of our discussion which is cells bacteria and viruses or bacteria as the cells and how they interact with viruses a way to protect themselves but I now want to kind of use the story of crispr to talk about another tool by which one can can you know impart this type of cell therapy so you know the world of genetics was turned upside down in a very important way um by the discoveries of Jennifer doudna Emmanuel's property and several others I should mention ten Zhang and George Church among others and there's a history of this which is in the book um for a long time there was the question of whether the human genome is a library imagine the human genome as a massive Library um if it was printed in normal text it would contain 80 000 books a massive encyclopedia stretching across a massive Library and imagine that you wanted to make a change in one word in that Library you want to take book 61 on shelf 47 and make a change from verbal to herbal uh in that Library this was a dream of scientists for a long time and no one could do it and then Jennifer doudna shot Frontier and then assisted by Feng Jiang and other people figured out that there was a bacterial system evolved millions of years ago that could make that precise change in one word in that entire Library um either deleting that word in other words erasing it simplest change or potentially changing the word to another d word um that's it's an incredible genetic Revolution so as we move forward into this new universe we have the capacity to change the human genome in a deliberative and um I would say a a processed manner um so just take the example of sickle cell anemia that we gave before we can change that Sickle Cell Anemia Gene to a normal Gene by using this technology we can change the a mutant or abnormal cystic fibrosis Gene to a normal Gene the normal version or the wild type version using this technology so it's obviously extraordinarily important um and there are many many applications of this technology and it's exciting because we can do things that we couldn't do before involving changing genes to new genes changing genes to their wild type variants or their more common variants and so forth so um we now have have the capacity to do this we can do this with embryonic cells we can do this with embryonic stem cells we can do this with bone marrow cells we can do this with T cells car T cells the the it's a revolution and all I can emphasize is the depth and breadth of this revolution because it's enormous so two two follow-up questions the first is explain using the library analogy how this system differs from the approach that was used 20 years ago in the case of Jesse gelsinger that we described where an adenovirus was used I mean what's the difference in scale and elegance between what you just described which is in the 80 000 books you can go to one page one word and make the change versus that other approach yes so um so again imagine the human genome as a massive Library 80 000 books um printed on a page um and so the old technology the technology that was used with guest Jesse gassinger is the technology in which we uh by analogy I'm using metaphors and that and and analogies here we would insert a new page into that 80 000 page Library um so you would go into the library 80 000 books around you and you would take a page and insert a new page into that Library a foreign page the library the librarian could come in this case that immune response the T cell or the B cell immune response and come and say wait a second that's gonna it doesn't belong that's not a page that belongs and that's what happened with Jesse dozinger and other people the librarian would come and say librarian being the human body would come and say wait a second you're inserting new pages into a library that's no good um and would prevent that and it seems to me that you didn't even it was much harder to know where to put that page I mean if you knew a priority I really want that P to be between page 87 and 88 you might accidentally insert it somewhere else right exactly and the librarian would say well why are you putting it into you know Jennifer Egan's book on the Goon Squad um because it doesn't belong there you you just inserted that page new page the new gene into a place where it doesn't belong and he or she would say I I don't I don't buy this I'm not I I'm not going to let you do that that that that's absurd you're reading along with you know Chekhov or Eagan or whoever and all of a sudden you find a new page that's been taped in the virus that's carried in the new Gene the new virus um and you say well wait a second that that doesn't belong there and that was where the technology sat for years and years and years then um Jennifer doudna short Frontier and others discovered a method in which you would do just quite the opposite you would go into a page and say listen I have the right page in the right volume of the right book and I'm going to change one word the first kind of word that they could change was just deleting a word um and this was using a viral system called crispr and you could just erase a word and then more and more research showed that you could change the word and as I said you could change the word verbal to herbal uh by chaining a single letter and for the most part leave the library intact and if you were a very Vigilant library and you would say that's okay you haven't put in an extra page in you know uh Charles Dickens book you've actually gone to the right book and change the right word in the right space in the right time from one to another and that's the subtlety of what crispr allows us to do it allows us to make extraordinarily precise changes in extraordinary precise ways in a massive Library which would not be possible otherwise so you alluded to this at the outset of your description which was um you could make changes to an embryo right you could take an embryo and you could make a genetic change which now has pretty significant consequences because it is now a germline change this is different than you know if you made a change in a non-germline Cell way down the line and I guess as things would have it the first documented example of this created quite a controversy um so maybe briefly tell the story of JK and the the ccr5 Gene and um and why that and I guess more importantly is what are the implications of that um pretty unethical episode so um again I would encourage people to read the book The Song of the cell um to get all the details about it but um a Chinese scientist uh Jakey um made a somewhat bizarre decision um and I'll talk about why this is it or was bizarre um there is a gene in the human genome that um makes cells resistance to HIV infection um there are many genes but that's this is one of them the the Chinese scientists in this case uh decided hey John can decide that he was going to make a change in human embryos with Gene editing technology the technology that I just described which would make the child of a parent couple in which the man was HIV positive the woman was HIV negative and imp make that change in the embryo and implant those altered embryos into the mom so that they would be HIV resistant because of this change um the problem so sounds great on paper the problem is that their risk the risk of these children to acquire HIV because they were produced by IVF is basically zero they don't they cannot get HIV the sperm doesn't carry HIV um so if you produce a child by by this method you basically have a zero risk of HIV infection and so this is what it wasn't medically necessary right that's it wasn't medically necessary um let me take a step back um Peter the book makes a I make a very big distinction between disease and desire um disease is fundamentally linked to suffering um when we talk about disease we talk about human suffering when we talk about desire we talk about the capacity the idea or the aspiration to ameliorate suffering even when there's no suffering involved as far as we can tell now in this case there was no disease the children had no risk of disease they couldn't have any visceral disease the desire was an entirely scientific desire to create a genetically modified embryo so in this case in particular the desire was that they would create a modified embryo and that his angry would be the first in human history to create a human embryo with genetically on altered stem cells cells so uh he went ahead with this project and he created to uh girls we don't know their real names they're their names have been called they've been called Lulu and Nana um and what he obtained was not exactly what he hoped to obtain which is not that precise Erasure of verbal to herbal in a single book in the entire uh library of 80 000 books what he obtained was um a much cruder version of that um and scientists across the world were concerned about you know did he abstain informed consent was there appropriate uh use of you know did the parents even understand the language that we're using now remember because of this was an IVF procedure the risk of these children getting HIV was Zero so again we come to the question of disease versus desire they had no disease the only desire was to create someone who is potentially resistant to HIV infection so we have this situation which is very unusual where desire the desire to change human embryos the desire to push the frontiers of science overwhelms the disease where there is no disease and so the scientific world became extraordinary incensed uh about the idea that you know this scientist had had really crossed the boundary between disease and desire now if this had been some disease that the children had inherited cystic fibrosis sickle cell disease Huntington's disease some terrible thing that they would encounter in their lifetime the scientific Community would have been much more sanguine about it but these children these two twins that were born had a zero risk zero risk of acquiring HIV from their fathers because the sperm had been watched sperm don't get infected with HIV so there they they were basically um they had they had no risk of the disease so what was left was desire the desire to be first the desire to be create new human human embryos and that's what was very incentive you know that's what incense the scientists and the community of scientists you know there's probably no greater example of the relationship between science and philosophy um you know people might want a little bit of a reminder about what a doctorate degree is formally called right a doctor of philosophy and so when you think about this question it it becomes kind of difficult right and I and I think um in in Walter isaacson's biography um of Jennifer doudna I you know I think this topic is explored in your book this topic is explored um where does one draw the line right so you know Huntington's disease is a great example in the sense that you have a genetic you have an acquired genetic mutation that is a hundred percent penetrable in a devastating disease that shortens life and leads to immense suffering would we find many philosophers of science who would say that it is wrong to alter the embryos of uh adults who have Huntington's disease or carry that trait that Gene to prevent it from going to their offspring which by the way if you play the thought experiment out would eliminate Huntington's disease altogether because these are germline mutations like how does how does the scientific and philosophical Community merge over questions of that nature and then of course just to tell you eventually do we move that further to APO E4 LPA other thing other other genes that are not as penetrant right so ap4 is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease or early Alzheimer's disease just to give you an example of how devastating it can be um for particular people who have combinations of AP board and other other genetic mutations that increase their risk for early Alzheimer's disease but um I think the scientific Community would say for Huntington's disease the side of the community would say listen this is a devastating disease with a huge pensions by benefits we mean if you inherit inherit the gene the chances that you'll have the disease is very high sometimes that's not the case right so you might inherit a mutation in some Gene whatever it might be but you might not get the disease bracko one is a good example you're right you might inherit one gene but you never may have you may Escape having breast cancer in your lifetime um Huntington's disease is a very high penetrance so in other words if you inherit the mutation the likelihood that you'll have a disease is very high um I think the biomedical Community would say that for diseases like Huntington's disease it's probably worthwhile um doing an intervention of whatever that attraction might be but the biomedical Community would say that for in this case in HIV yeah this was obvious it's it's it's not work it's not warranted and the place oh sorry go ahead and and I think that that the biomedical Community would say it's not necessary it's not part of the it's it's not part of the Continuum of disease versus desire it's it it it it it moves towards desire without moving towards disease I think the other examples of things on the clearly desire Spectrum are pretty obvious right like enhancing intelligence or physical traits like strength size Etc of all of these areas the one I find most interesting is around Mental Health right which is we understand for example autism and schizophrenia have an enormous genetic component um on the surface it might seem like hey wouldn't it be great if fewer people were born with Autism and or schizophrenia but it's really nowhere near that simple is it and there's a Pandora's Box upon which we have no idea what we could lose as a society if we were to sort of sterilize quote unquote some of these conditions um you've obviously touched on this and I want to come back to sort of mental health because in some ways where we're going to go next in this discussion I think is to the last cellular uh territory right the the the cells of the brain to me that's kind of like the most complicated cells of the body in a sense and of course this is one area where it's very difficult to appreciate a phenotype under a microscope or in a scanner um and so I think part of it has to do with the complexity of these genes but but how do you think about what might be inevitably questions that Society faces around the use of this type of precision Gene editing when it comes to genetic conditions of the of the brain well the brain is the most complex of all organs and um it's important to understand that complexity um what we know about diseases like autism and schizophrenia is that they are broadly speaking [Music] um two kinds of genes in the entire Spectrum of genetics that have to do with mental diseases one kind of gene is what I call a shabji meaning it pushes you really hard so think about height forget about autism for a second think about height height is a genetic has a strong genetic component tall parents tend to produce tall children short parents tend to produce shorter children so we know there's a general component to it now there are genes in the spectrum of controlling Heights that are very powerful shab genes they shove you in One Direction or the other so one example is Marfan syndrome Marfan syndrome is a genetic disorder a single Gene one gene if you inherit copies of that Gene you will likely be extremely tall and you might have other medical and other complications but you will be tall for sure um there's a story that Abraham Lincoln may have inherited my fans uh the marfanji okay so that's a shaft Gene um those are relatively rare in the human population of very tall people the more common uh variant is what I call uh not genes nudge versus Sharp nudge genes move you little by little by little by little by little towards increasing Heights and there may be hundreds they may be tens of hundreds of genes that may increase your height little by little by little by little by little until you get five feet ten inches five feet nine inches five feet 11 inches six feet etc etc it's on one gene but hundreds if not tens of hundreds now transfer that same idea to Mental Health okay there are certainly genes in the human genome that change your neuron physiology the physiology of your nerves that are shoved genes in other words if you inherit them just like Marfan syndrome you are likely to get much more likely to have mental illness in whatever form it is uh they're relatively rare and they are inherited in families there's a great book um on this um written recently about a family that has multiple kids with schizophrenia Etc [Music] um I think it's called Fallen River Road um correctly okay but most mental illness just by analogy with height is not the consequence of this shove phenomenon but our consequences of what I would call Death By A Thousand Cuts small nudges that would push you towards depression schizophrenia autism Etc and in fact we haven't even found those genes yet even though we know they exist in some cases we haven't found those genes yet so the the capacity to change those genes is very limited because you know the examples that I gave you or Jane editing Gene alteration technology are limited to one gene two genes three genes but it's very very hard to find a way to change those genes hundreds potentially tens of hundreds of genes in the mental health Spectrum so it's not as if we can all of a sudden wake up one morning and say I'm going to change your mental health or change the mental health of your embryo based on the understanding of our shop genes because it just won't happen so let's now dig into this complexity issue around the brain um you know it's uh I I've tried to explain this to people and I've never been able to do a great job of it you do a great job of it in the book describing it's a mystery right and you came up with a way to describe it that I thought was fantastic which was and I want to make sure I'm getting this right so correct me if I'm wrong you said there were two types of problems in science there are the i in the sandstorm problems versus the sand in the eye problems and as the cellular biologists and neurobiologists were getting deeper and deeper into the brain and it really seemed like they had figured out this thing these axons the the movement of electricity these Action potentials they were figuring this out but they had a little piece of sand in their eye uh what was that piece of sand and and again feel free to expand on in this if I haven't if I haven't provided an eloquent enough setup but it was it was a beautiful description um it's um um it's it's a fanciful description and it's uh it's an important distinction um and it's a philosophical instinction um the i in the sandstorm problem is a problem in which you encounter something in medical Sciences where the information just doesn't fit um it's it's being in a sense form and I give the example when we made the transition in physics between Newtonian physics and quantum mechanics and einsteinian understanding so in other words you reach the place and all of a sudden everything didn't fit the the bending of Lights the presence of uh relativity Etc Nothing fits so you needed a completely new Theory uh a new paradigm Adobe shift in Paradigm paradigmatic thinking that's the eye in the Sandstone problem so in other words there's sandstorms everywhere and you can't make sense of the real world um that's one kind of problem and I'm interested in those problems this the the sand and the eye problem as I call it is is a different kind of problem the sandstorm in the eye problem is when everything fits except one fact and it's very important to understand that both of those are really really interesting because the sand in the eye problem says that our theory is almost right but it's not right because there's something a fact that won't fit and the particular example I use is is neuronal transmission so so when people discovered neurons in the brain they figured out basically by looks looking at an anatomy that neurons in the brain weren't that there was a space between them that nerves weren't just wires if you were an electrician filling out an electrical uh situation in an apartment right you what you wouldn't do is put spaces between the wires so that all of a sudden this that space would become a communication between wires you just hook the whole apartment up but when people like ramonica Hall and other scientists figured out how to solve this problem they understood that all of a sudden that that nerves have spaces in between them in fact they had a name for these spaces it's called a synap a synapse and that is an eye in the sand problem because you say to yourself wait a second if the nervous system is just electrical wire is strung together why would you place a space between two electrical wires and the solution to that problem turns out to be extraordinarily important for Neuroscience because what happens between nerves is that an electrical conduction moves between from one end of a nerve to the other and then and here's the kicker it changes from an electrical conduction to a chemical signal between one nerve to another and that chemical signal re-sparks or Sparks and the an electrical conduction so you're going chemical electrical chemical electrical chemical electrical and you could say what mad person would ever devise um or what evolutionary process would ever devise a system like this and the answer is the reason is very important because what you're what your nervous system is doing is in that transmission between electrical chemical electrical chemical electrical chemical what your nervous system is doing is it's putting weights so that in the chemical transmission and in an electrical impulse could come down a nerve but let's say there are 10 nerves or 10 neurons nerve cells that are impinging on one nerve cell you could assign a weight as to how much this one was transmitting versus another one and by assigning those weights by assigning those calibrations you could say one is louder than the other one is softer than the other one inhibits the other and it's those combinations of inhibition loudness etc etc that allow profound things like sentience and conversation and Consciousness and so forth the analogy that's very important is this is exactly or similarly to how and I said it's an analogy this is exactly your similarity to how neural networks work there are there are ways put on how one layer of communication communicates with the second layer of communication in other words some are louder than others some are softer than others imagine discriminating a dog from a cat you could say that a very loud signal in that discrimination if the animal happens to bark you know that for sure that's not a cat that's a very loud signal a very soft signal could be the weight of the animal some dogs are lighter than cats a very loud signal could be the way that you know the snout of an animal is fixed with the head of the animal dogs have a particular snout head combination cats have a particular standard combination so by adjusting the weights of these combinations we think by analogy that this is how the brain can discriminate between dogs and cats um we don't know this for sure because this is an area of science that's still in process but this is a Classics example in the 1950s of the idea that why on Earth would you take an electrical signal convert it to a chemical signal and then convert it back from The Crucible the answer is because it was just an electric boot signal you know we'd be a box of wires and a box of wires without the weight between individual signals between the wires is a useless box because we don't understand or we cannot understand how to construct a Learning Network between these a box of wires whereas we can understand how we can construct a Learning Network between electrical and chemical stimulation because we can modulate the strength of that chemical simulation such that we can really actually learn a process does that make sense it really does I mean another way that I like to explain it is using music right which is the electrical signals that travel down the axon are digital and maybe because I'm an engineer I do tend to think in terms of digital versus analog processes but if you explain that look digital means it's either completely on or completely off there is no modulation and imagine an orchestra that every instrument could only play at one maximum decibel level or not at all you couldn't have any modulation of sound it would be a very awful sounding music but if now each of those instruments can go up and down in Crescendo and decrescendo and modulate you now basically have kind of the analog adjustment of music that's that's how we make songs and I think right that's probably a cruder analogy but I think it kind of also gets at this point which is I mean again it comes back to how did Evolution figure this out how much trial and error went into producing something so remarkable so brilliant right I mean like you again you wouldn't think to engineer this system necessarily well I mean I think the the the reason Evolution figured it out is is again learning um uh a purely electrical system uh which is sort of like saying you're playing some music but you don't have any modulation yeah um you know you're you're listening to a score and the score has no modulation right so you play everything at the same volume at the same tempo at the same time that's on music yeah that's not the song of the cell what evolution figured out and by figured out I don't want to put a anthropomorphic idea on it but what our evolution converged on is the idea that music has Tempo it has space some pieces are software some pieces are louder and by altering this loudness softness as we move along in our neurons that we can produce not just a mechanical um output of the score but but real music and and and your musical analysis is very interesting because that's what we're producing we're producing not a mechanical output of the score we're producing a learned output a mature output of the score and that mature output has to do very much with you know modulation some parts are louder some parts are softer some parts speed up in Rhythm some parts slow down in rhythm and that is ultimately the music of the cell but also the music of the brain so there's many systems we haven't spoken about but there's one we would be remiss not to speak about because it's near and dear to both of our hearts so you um when you went to Oxford to do your PhD as a Rhodes Scholar you ended up in a lab where you learned Immunology which of course would come to serve you very well as in oncologist and a hematologist today I want to talk about a couple of things there first is you spoke of course of your Mentor Enzo in the lab help us understand what it is that was sort of bestowed on you from an education perspective from a learning perspective as a doctoral student that we don't really get in medical school I mean you you know you would go on to Harvard Medical School you'd get a great medical education but I think anybody who spent time in a lab will understand that there's just certain things that can't be taught in a classroom you have to learn things by being in a lab if that's the language you want to be able to speak what are your what are your Recollections of that that period of time especially in the beginning when presumably the learning curve was very Steep and you're drinking from a fire hose and you don't know much of what's going on but you've committed to this path of becoming a scientist first a physician second it's a very different kind of thinking process um uh I like to make medicines and when I make medicines I like to make medicines that are important for for human life hopefully for saving lives I've talked about some of them um and we we've spoken prior podcasts about some of the new medicines that I've been involved in inventing um textbook knowledge in medicine is important and biology is important because it lays the groundwork and the foundations of what we know and what we understand but textbook knowledge only gets you so far because when you come into the actual laboratory you understand that there are things that are predictable there are things that are not predictable and then you get into these eyes I in the sandstorm and sand in the eye problems um which are very important um you you learn to recognize failure you learn to recognize how to troubleshoot your way out of failure um none of this is in a textbook open a textbook of biology any textbook or biochemistry biology and try to find me a section on troubleshooting you won't find one troubleshooting your way out of failure is a the most standard way that we think about medicine and biology run a clinical trial how do we select a patient so let's say you're running a phase one phase one two B clinical trial I I run I have six open trials right now how do you run a clinical trial read a textbook nothing will tell you about how you select a patient for a clinical trial how you manage a patient with uh complications from a clinical trial there is no information anywhere in that textbook about running that trial so similarly run run an experiment which will set you up for a clinical trial there is no information in that textbook about how to troubleshoot how and where and how to do that science that allows you to make it into human medicine um what if for instance you suddenly find that um the medicine that you that you're working with are you trying to create um isn't pure that there's a contamination um how do you how do you remove that contamination there is no method you can't find a textbook and so what you do is you ask your peers who've done this before you and you say what did you do and that's not in a textbook that's not in any book that's not in the book that's ever been written and so I want you to write about that I wanted to write about that process of learning by doing learning by being learning by experiencing and that's why that whole chapter exists in the book there is a kind of learning that we do by doing that would be by being that we acquire by acquiring that is not it cannot be found in any book or textbook in the medical sciences and there's no way around it you know there are a couple of really personal things I want to I want to ask you about some of them for selfish reasons I want to start with writing um for all the times we've had meals together I don't know how this hasn't occurred to me to ask you but how and when did this and I and when I call it a gift I don't want to undermine it Sid because I don't want to suggest it doesn't require an obscene amount of hard work but the reality of it is if I spent the rest of my life writing I would still write like a child compared to an adult in the way that you write so at what point in your high school undergraduate Etc did you realize that you had a brilliant way to write and I and I will say this I think you are hands down the best medical writer I mean best writer who happens to write about anything that has to do with science and medicine I mean it's really it's outstanding Sid well thanks for the compliments uh you know writing is not an easy process for me um but it's also a a somewhat weird process for me and by weird I mean I I throw in everything um in the next book that I write maybe this conversation that we're having or some aspect of this conversation some question that you asked in this conversation will find its way into the book so um I I I I I have this policy in which I don't make any uh that there's nothing that's outside my box it's all part of the Box all part of the whole story so um again I I find that that that writing is a way for me to think a way for me to work through my thoughts um and the analogies and the metaphors and the the metaphorical parts of my writing are really not in service of writing they're in service of making me think they're in terms of making me understand why a certain phenomenon is related to another phenomenon I draw from history I draw from mythology from Philosophy from our conversations from interviews and everything goes into into a book um and it's in some ways I feel as if I had to invent the genre because you know it was so siled medical writing was about medicine it wasn't personal it wasn't I mean there was sharp distinctions between memoir and case histories there were sharp distinctions between you know uh deep history and an interview or journalistic writing and I said to myself you know these distinctions are arbitrary they are they only exist to serve a kind of secondary purpose why not erase all of them and make a new kind of writing in medicine or in in life because the the most important thing that I think people told me about medical writing was like was that when people read writing about medicine they want to enter your Cosmos you don't want to enter your world they want to know what it's like to be like you um and so I said okay uh I'll show them what is it like to be like me well it's like to be to experience intense um it absolutely intense exhilaration when a clinical trial is successful absolute depths of depression and crisis when a clinical trial fails um absolute anticipation absolute apprehension absolute admiration for people who on Whose shoulders I stand that's what it's like to be like me and and when people said to me show me your world I said okay I'll show you my word but I'll show you my word in in a way that that's like to be like me what is it like to be like me I I I am like you I have terrible days I have very good days I have exhilarating days um I make inventions I those inventions work some of them don't work um and all of it is wonderful and terrible at the same terrifying at the same time I want to bring you into that and that means I will combine Memoir journalistic writing traveling writing philosophy mythology and everything I'll throw everything in there so that you understand what it's like to be like me there are two things you talked about in the book Sid that were completely unconnected but immediately in my mind we're connected and it probably has to do with my own world um as you know said I think a lot about the end of life I think a lot about how we can delay and push off the end of life and one of the things that I think a lot about is how quickly life can vanish in a person when they fall and an older person I don't mean a 10 year old and these two things that uh you write about and again totally different parts of the book run you you talk very openly about your own depression that really kind of kicked in a year after your father's death which resulted from a fall and near the very end of the book you talk about the end of virtual's life which I didn't I was not aware of how virtue died I I was completely unaware of that that he ultimately died as a result of a fall and a broken femur and within less than six months he was dead which is unfortunately far more common than people realize I mean it is the leading cause of accidental death and the mortality is you you know said from a person over the age of 65 if a person at that age or above falls and breaks their femur depending on the study it's anywhere from 10 to 30 percent mortality at 12 months and you do a very good job of explaining the why because a lot of people when confronted with that fact simply can't understand it and I was again confronted by it just two days ago when um the the swim coach of Stanford while I was there and I of course I didn't swim at Stanford but but many of my friends did and I sort of knew him and I got to know him later after he had retired um and he fell two weeks ago broke his hip and two weeks later he's dead never really recovered from the surgery that's a very extreme example it's it's it's interesting to me but you know um what I what I couldn't believe was how you tied it back to this cell right which was here we have one of these Giants of cellular biology who Falls and dies but it's actually the result of a cellular process one cell you know it starts with the the osteoclast and the osteoblast and the Matrix of the hip and ultimately it leads to organ failure um that's not a that's not a leap that I think is easy to make it's not it's not obvious well it's it's it's obvious when you think about burkhar's own idea that the body is a citizenship yeah well said um and the citizenship Falls when one part of this essential Falls imagine a citizenship in any in in any capacity right all of a sudden your Bureau of Transportation decides to take a leave for 20 days the the trains in New York City stopped running to the train stopped running and therefore people can't go to work uh people can't go to work and the economy collapses the economy collapses and all of a sudden people who are dependent on small changes in their lifetimes wage workers collapse um and then the the entire system the net the network of systems collapses all because you know the Department of Transportation closed down for two days um that's what happens in the human body that's the liability in some ways of multicellular existence there are many advantages we talked about multicellular existence as advantages but they're also liabilities because you depend on your pancreas for insulin you don't depend on your brain your brain doesn't make insulin you depend on your brain for senses and Consciousness you depend on your muscles for movement your brain can't produce movement with our muscles and so there's a citizenship that that bodies develop and have developed with each other so that we together perform as organisms say it again another personal question how much did you weigh the pros and cons of writing about such personal matters as your own depression I mean we we do still live in a world where it's not entirely clear to me why we view depression different from hypertension um you know for example if a person says I have hyperlipidemia and I I take 10 milligrams of Lipitor a day I don't think anybody bats an eye but if somebody says I'm really struggling with depression and I take an antidepressant it just has a different valence to it for some reason I don't again I don't know why that is I really don't um but in the in the in the presence of that knowledge you still chose to talk about this [Music] um why well Peter is a very conscious Choice it was not unconscious I talked to my family about it um and I made the choice after that conversation um I agree with you I think that depression it can be um what's called an organic disorder a disordered in mood regulating neurons in your brain just like type 1 diabetes is an organic disorder a disorder in the inability of pancreatic beta cells to secret insulin um the reason is different I think is that we associate a kind of victimhood to mental disorders um and that kind of victimhood is punitive it is it it blames victims for being victims in a way that you know you don't say that oh you know you're hypertensive because you um have genetics or behaviors etc etc that are related to your hypertension but depression and mental disorders grief depression and perhaps even more complex disorders schizophrenia have a sense of blaming the victim and the victim being the person who's um the the experiencing the disorder um that victimhood I think has to do with the idea the brain is separate from the rest of the body it's a special order and yes of course it's a special organ there's no doubt about that but on the other hand it's also an organ that has physiology just like your pancreases physiology just like your heart has physiology and so what I want to get away from is this idea of special victimhood um and talk about the brain as a cellular cluster which is just a cellular in some ways just a cellular cluster like the pancreas or the heart or the liver is the cellular cluster and thereby remove this or defend or even challenge this idea of victimhood and and responsibility because most people who experience severe political depression experience it as a consequence of of course of environmental and emotional stimulation the grief of dying the grief of that situation Etc but they but but there are neuronal or nervous nerve cells and nerve cell circuits that push them in biochemical and chemical ways towards the state in which they cannot function um and I want to highlight that that absence of function if workout was alive today workah would say that absence of function or that dysfunction is not dissimilar to a person who has a failing heart um or a failing liver because that function is a dysfunction of mood regulating circuits and neurons in the brain just as type 1 diabetes is a dysfunction of of insulin regulating cells in the pancreas and that idea again is actually very important and I think radical um in in this book and in all my books I I agree with you completely I think it is entirely radical and it's I think very difficult you know I I I spoke about this with Carl deseroth um if you haven't read his book by the way it's a fantastic book as well I haven't I've read this book it's yeah it's incredible and and Carl was a classmate of mine in medical school and he was equally brilliant um then as as he is now but but he talks about this idea right which is it's this entire field of medicine I'm referring to Psychiatry for which we have not one biomarker for which we have not one radiographic finding that lends itself to a diagnosis and so in the example of that failing heart and that failing liver I mean we have a menu of things to Aid in the diagnosis in fact it's much easier to make that diagnosis today than when William Osler had to make the diagnosis 125 years ago I mean today a medical student can diagnose a failing heart and a failing liver given enough data and yet there's still this black box inside of our brains in some ways and um I I think I just you know I find it very interesting and I I can't help but Wonder where we will be in 20 years like when I when I think about oncology today and I think about what the wish for oncology is in 20 years and I think about Psychiatry today and psychiatry in 20 years I feel like there's even more potential in Psychiatry and of course I think the potential oncology is enormous well I I think I think you you've hit the nail of the head which is to say that you know biomarkers will help and our are always helpful But ultimately it's a clinical decision um when you see I always tell people you know um who haven't been in clinical medicine when you see depression you know depression you know that that this person has a dysfunction of the neural circuits that regulate mood just like a patient with type 1 diabetes has a dysfunction in the neuro in the cells that secure the insulin um and even if there are no biomarkers you know it this is what humans can see about human other humans um there's a there is a disproportionality or a uh this um a a disconnection between the level of grief that a person experiences and the level of grief that persists at the level of honoree the level of um psychomotor inability to move um that a person experiences when they're when they're clinically depressed so so I think that that there are even in the absence of biomarkers I think there there is a new age that is coming um and and a respect I think for the autonomy of patience who experience neurological and psychiatric diseases and I think as you've said before desert writes about them um very carefully and very thoughtfully there are many people Andrew Solomon has written about um about all of this and I think it's very important because you know we could find therapies for these some of them may be related to things that you and I are very interested in like alterations in diets alterations in diets plus medicines alterations in in human physiology that could reset brain circuits electrical stimulation as Helen mayberg and others have been doing and to treat the problem as if it was you know just a problem that is sort of an active phenomenon is to minimize what the problem is Sid there's so much more I um wanted to talk with you about but as not surprisingly we we've we've gone pretty deep in a few things and there are topics like the entire immune system the epigenetic phenomenon and how we get into cellular reprogramming and yamanaka factors I mean there's we got through about half of what I wanted to talk about so I think the only reasonable thing to do here is to say once the book tour is behind you once we've both got a little bit more breathing room we should sit down again and do part three where we where we talk about some of these other factors you you have a wonderful way of explaining complicated ideas um and and frankly I think perhaps the single most important thing I wanted to talk about today which was to bring all of this around the future of Science and the culture of anti-science that is that is propagating I I I I hesitate to not touch on that now but I don't think we could do it justice with a glib and short discussion and I'd I'd I'd I'd with your blessing like to postpone that as as yet another topic we can explore uh hopefully in 2023 would love to um and and good luck I love your podcasts and I have loved being on it so well thank you Sid and uh congratulations again on another Masterpiece and um I'm looking forward to uh to to helping to spread the word so that many more people uh enjoy the uh or experience the joy of reading your work thank you Sid [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 0AcrNQC93So (https://youtu.be/0AcrNQC93So) ===

well he's one of the finest Minds in medicine today Dr Siddharth Mukherjee oncologist and professor of medicine at Columbia University New York has a new book that's just been released today it's the song of the cell which looks at the very basis of our existence through the stories of real life patients Dr Mukherjee takes us through an amazing journey of how human cells were discovered and how these are being used today to revolutionize Medical Treatments for diseases like cancer his earlier book The Emperor of malady's won a Pulitzer Prize and helped millions of cancer patients and their families around the world Dr Siddharth Mukherjee joins us on NDTV now thank you so much for joining us Dr Mukherjee you've done a great service actually writing books which explain are complex medical issues to all of us particularly cancer and this book the song of the cell goes back to where it all begins how all of us are made up of cells how these were discovered and how they are being used now in new treatments to treat diseases how did the idea of writing about this come to you well you know after I finished my last book the gene um I began to think about how genes are made um are are enlivened Amino gene or a molecule of DNA is lifeless without the cell um it is just a molecule it's a chemical and my question really became what happens at the next level of complexity what is the next level of human complexity of the complexity of the body and so I really began to gravitate towards cells and cells as a potential locy of therapy as I thought about how we might imagine um the next sort of stage of Our Lives as um you know next level level of medicine as it were and that's how I came about cells and cell therapy well you've written about what were once considered radical new technologies and the ethical debates that they sparked at that time for instance the first in vitro fertilization the first stem cell transplants Etc in other words medicine and science keep evolving and what we think is radical today becomes normal tomorrow yeah I mean the great example is IVF I mean you know in vitro fertilization hundreds of thousands of babies have been born with in vitro fertilization but but it was first uh conceived people thought that um it was just uh unethical that uh you know lots of people thought that infertility is not a disease um and so therefore uh you know one white white treat something that's not a disease now the book makes a very radical distinction between disease and desire um and uh that distinction is of course very important because people thought oh gosh you know we've been living with uh without with infertility and some people don't think that it's a problem they still don't think it's a problem but for some other people it's an aching form of suffering so um you have this question of you know infertility and IVF and um when IVF was first conceived uh a lot of people um argued that it wasn't it wasn't disease and therefore should not be treated you're also passionately involved in a project here in India to make T cell therapy for Leukemia and Lymphoma accessible for everyone now there's a clinical trial which is underway on this tell us more about why this therapy is so important well it's a very radical therapy in which uh uh patients with relapsed refractive leukemia these are leukemias that are no longer responsive to standard therapy are treated with their own T cells those T cells are genetically modified in the laboratory and uh grown in the laboratory for 14 days and then returned back to the patients um it's very radical it's very in the United States it's extremely expensive it costs uh anywhere 500 to 600 thousand dollars um we wanted to make that therapy available in India I collaborated with Kiran Shaw and Kush farmer created the entire Factory yes this this is not any kind of factory this is not like a nuts and bolts Factory this is a place that has to be extremely sterile and also the diseases that we're treating are very very dangerous these patients are almost at the edge of death um and the therapy itself is toxic um so you have to start off with the understanding that you know the therapy itself can be potentially toxic and kill you but if we if it's successful we can cure about 70 80 percent of these patients who would otherwise be completely left without any options and die from the leukemia that they originally had so um we have started these trials uh we are in Midway and I have to say that I can't tell you the results yet because of course we're still in the middle of these trials but we are trying to provide the therapy for for children for kids and there's nothing uh me like watching someone who's 10 years old with a little leukemia really come alive after the therapy and as I said I mean these are not simple things to do these are very toxic therapies and there will be of course certain a certain number of toxicity is associated with these techniques per se you've also written in this book about kovid and and very simply uh you know you said that uh we have learned so much and yet we have so much left to learn so what did kovit teach you well we've learned a lot we've learned a lot about the immune system it was very unanticipated we've learned about a lot about how covet causes like severe disease um it's a very it's it was an incredible medical mystery it Still Remains somewhat of a medical history but we've learned how covet causes this very severe uh disease and it's by paralyzing some parts of the immune system while activating some other parts of the immune system um the virologist Akiko iosaki who's a famous virologist calls it immunological misfiring it's like an army that's uh firing in the wrong direction um and so we've learned a lot about Kobe in in that sense but there are many many medical Mysteries that are still to be solved about how it evades the immune system why you can have so many repeat instructions and so forth so those are Mysteries that we're still trying to solve but you know uh the creation of new of new vaccines against Google and the possibility that we can actually uh immunize ourselves against uh this deadly virus um has been a great learning experience for all of us what kind of treatments then are we looking at in the near future as far as cancer is concerned you've talked about T Cell Therapy but are you more optimistic today about the kind of treatments that are available to people um absolutely we're more optimistic we have learned we're learning how to harness the human immune system against cancer which is a very big uh step um this was not possible 10 years ago immunotherapy is now part of the standard uh a protocol against cancer my own laboratory is trying to use diets against cancer to use not just diets in prevention manner but in a therapeutic manner against cancer so we are trying very hard to understand how cancers depend on certain nutrients um and uh and and harness those we are learning how to prevent some kinds of cancers using ones that are caused by viruses using new novel vaccines and of course carti or T-cell therapy now all of these are as I said they have costs that are associated with them because uh in cancer unfortunately nothing comes for free and so um we're also learning how to harness the toxicities against uh with these therapies uh for cancer but there's a whole gamut of new therapies uh that we're all that everyone is involved in the whole community of cancer researchers is involved in and uh all of them are novel why do you think finally Dr Mukherjee that it's important to write the way that you do simplifying this you know mystical world of science and medicine for all of us some of your peers have criticized you they say you oversimplify things but others believe you're doing an important service thank you well you know I think it's important to simplify because it's impossible to read a 500 page book in which you talk about you know ctla4 or ba 4.2 and and so forth I think uh that that would become um that would become unreadable um no one would read it no one would understand it I think it's important because it gives patience and the public a kind of autonomy that is not otherwise available I mean imagine you were reading about um economics and you had no clue about supply and demand and you had no clue about the more complex aspects of Economics so um you know I I try to reach what I think is the is a kind of balance between uh simplification uh avoiding and you know I um in this book especially I've moved there is a there's a huge index and a huge um epilogue and chapter after chapter afterwards in which you can go into great depth um and I provide primary references where if you really are interested in deepening your knowledge about all of this you can go in and deepen your knowledge but I think I think the public patients especially who are afflicted by these diseases need to know what is going on and how to um to understand it so that they can then therefore be able to uh to understand what they're being treated with and how well the song of the cell is out today congratulations on that Dr Siddharth Mukherjee thank you very much for joining us on NDTV thank you thank you [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 0IDE5T4oV6M (https://youtu.be/0IDE5T4oV6M) ===

I think to some extent medicine has driven itself to the ground and I think from a medicine has come to represent not those what I would call a profoundly beneficial changes um but the but but things that are divisive things that are uh politically fraught um and there's there have been I think there's been a lot of politics at work [Music] foreign [Music] and it's you know again 15 20 years 30 years yet the disdain for Science and the design even for doctors uh seems to be uh growing and maybe covert was a was a big uh Catalyst for that but why then why why is there this well I think to some extent it's dangerous wrong word but I don't know what about you would like to use I think I think to some extent medicine has driven itself to the ground and not uh not fully um being able to convey its power and its tremendous impact on human history um I mean I'll just give you the broadest example of this um I mean it's in the book as well I mean in the 1850s or in the uh less than 100 years ago um the chances that when you had a child that you would die in childbirth or in certain areas on the order of 20 30 percent um childbirth was a deadly event the chances that you would die in uh before you were 60 years old was you know on the order of 70 80 percent um lifespans uh were 40 50 60 years you would be lucky if you were six years old um in the last less than a century even 50 odd years we've seen an extension of lifespan into well into the 80s in some countries um and we've seen the oldest humans well into their hundred and tens 115s 120s and so forth so there's been a real there's been a massive change um mostly um uh effected I think By changes in larger it's not like medical intervention has caused all of this mostly affected by larger changes in hygiene sanitation psych you know social and Behavioral Health but Health nonetheless and I think medicine has come to represent not those what I would call a profoundly beneficial changes um but the but but things that are divisive things that are uh politically fraught and there's there have been I think there's been a lot of politics at work um in the sense of sort of the anti-science movement the anti-vaxxer movement being one one edge of that the anti-science movement so I think some of it is the fault of is the fault of medicine itself um in unbean being unable to convey its value um to humans and some of it has been the politicization and the divisiveness and the um the use of medicine as a a scapegoat um for uh political divisiveness both in this country and in many countries around the world so also do you think it's kind of paradoxical that this anti-science movement has also come at a time when uh you know medical advancement has touched almost all lives and you know saved so many lives so do you see that as a kind of a well there's some Paradox about it but as I said medicines and medicine and science has done a particularly bad job in in conveying demystifying um and and and really pushing it making the public understand what it is about what it's doing what its purpose is what it's sort of what the grand project is of when it's a very poor job of it and I think that's and the result of it as I said is partly the fault of of medicine and the medical sciences and partly because of the political device that has been used as a tool is it also the Commerce of it I mean there's a sense that absolutely there's a sense that the motivation for science is becoming more and more commercial than it was would you agree with that and and um so um to some extent yes I mean the motivation of science has become commercial there's certainly an element to that which is not necessarily a bad thing I was just going to say exactly that which is that you know um the the motivation of Technology digital technology has been explicitly commercial um and in fact you could make the you could make a very strong argument that digital technology and social media are are good you know have certainly have had empowering roles in our society but I've had grotesquely uh divisive roles in our society even today um you know the main use of Facebook and Twitter seems to be to troll other people um etc etc but you don't see you don't see the same disdain for digital technology which is number one highly commercialized it's a sole purpose seems to be to make Mark Zuckerberg some extra money um or Elon Musk for that matter um it's uh you know it's uh it's divisiveness and its political divisiveness seems to be if anything um just as deep if not much worse than medicine but you don't see um you know people standing outside the office of Facebook with uh with posters or maybe you do but you certainly don't see the the the public uh backlash uh the anti-science or anti-medicine backlash that you see um part of it also is because you know we think of it perhaps accurately we think of medicine as as something that is is supposed to be benign it's supposed to be not commercial it's supposed to have um hold itself to higher ethical values and ethical standards and that's absolutely Fair it is it's a humanistic science it's the most human of all Sciences um where whereas uh maybe maybe the digital world got off easy by by starting to portray itself as a Godzilla and ending up as a Godzilla yeah but I mean I you know in your book and I think in your books I've not read all of them but I certainly have washed up into like there's a sense that I get where you but big Pharma is kind of a villain in in the book I mean big mama was a character it'd be a villain I mean to what extent do you think you know uh they've been extremely exploitative somewhat exploitative but you know is Big Pharma become the villain globally that big oil used to be at one point um I think big Pharma has become the villain I personally don't think it is the villain um I personally don't think I think some big Pharma can be a villain just like I think uh big oil can be a villain is a villain in fact to some extent I think it is a greater villain um I think um you know uh big digital Tech um can be in and is a villain I mean it really depends um we would not um have the Global Outreach of vaccination not just for covet but for all vaccines had it not been for companies yeah just to name a few you know Pfizer modern and among you know AstraZeneca among them you can't you you can't produce you know a small company a small startup cannot produce um medicines for the world you need the pharmacy if I was to wave a magic wand and make the pharmaceutical industry disappear I can guarantee it it will be a loss for human beings of course um and so on the other hand I think the flip side of that is of course that the pharmaceutical industry needs to take itself and its responsibility is pretty seriously um and uh find a middle ground which it really hasn't just now it has to some extent but it hadn't it was you know highly resistive um highly resistant um to change highly resistant to the idea of social good um and finally after multiple years of resistance has finally come to come to a place where it's trying to recognize and starting to recognize the idea that it has to make some deep changes within itself I don't think that I don't think big farmers I mean as I said if I was to wave a magic wand and make Pfizer AstraZeneca and um you know whatever you know Bristol Motor script disappear I think the world would be poorer for it um but on the other hand I also do think that the pharmaceutical Universe the needs to take itself very take its responsibilities quite seriously I'll give you one last example of this um all of you might must remember the role that cipla so I know um uh Yusuf Hamid as a as a friend I have the pleasure of knowing him as a friend remember the role siplup played in in during the AIDS pandemic at one point of time in most of uh most of Africa virtually all the AIDS medicines were coming from cipla until the um until you know world trade agreements uh really led by the pharmaceutical Lobby slapped uh you know hand slapped and handcuffed um cipla and um you know essentially made the uh the creation of of antiretrovirals monopolized the creation of materials um since then there have been you know since that moment I think many of these companies have come to realize that there are greater social goods that they need to deliver on and have started taking their role in in all of this much more seriously much more effectively and much more responsibly

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 1aMwzEH1zxU (https://youtu.be/1aMwzEH1zxU) ===

[Music] joining us here dr. mukajee on the India today Conclave remember the viewers you can ask some questions as well on social media all our sites are open for this econ claim but a pookajee I want to start with New York the city where you are your professional choice of work arguably the global Corona capital of the world more than eleven thousand deaths in New York 34 thousand across the United States what has coronavirus meant for the United States in New York this open free society that saw itself as a world superpower at the cutting edge of Health and Science has this been a wake-up call well of course it's been a wake-up call has been a wake-up call for the entire world I would say you know it is fair to say that New York is as you may well know under lockdown shut down for a while the hospitals were overwhelmed we are now seeing that the peak has now gone down for the last few days of deaths and ICU admissions so there it seems that the worst of the storm may have passed but again we're still under lockdown and and there is a very great fear that if we open too quickly then we will get a second resurgence of the virus and again another set of ICU admissions and deaths as far as a wake-up call yes of course it's been a wake-up call for the entire country we I think in America the realization that there were fundamental systems that were not working optimally broken became obvious you could you can you know you can liken it to America having a full body cat scan the whole American medical system and in fact the American economic system having a full body cat scan and that cat scan has revealed some strengths and and heroism among people but also has also reveal like cat-scans do the malignancies that were hidden the points of weakness the vulnerabilities that were hidden give you some examples of this you know one of the workers in one of the wealthiest countries in the world two things are happening simultaneously one is that for a while doctors and nurses couldn't find an n95 respirator the kind that you use to protect yourself against a virus infection if you're a doctor or nurse you couldn't find them so that shows you one peak or one edge on the other edge of American innovation they are now at least you know promising looking drug candidate and very promising looking antibody combinations cocktails that the American scientists American and ingenuity is producing and in fact this has been this has been also a wake-up call about how global and how cooperative research can be and when it is even if done properly how quickly you could respond to a pandemic I'm gonna come to that research in a moment dr. mukajee but I want to ask you this question as I said the world especially India has always looked at America as the global leader in the medical space are there any lessons therefore that India can learn from the American experience over the last month the first and most important lesson is to be prepared and preparation makes all all the difference the we are now as we analyze as we analyze the the number of days that went by before the United States had a good detection test I did a calculation yesterday you would be shocked at the calculation the first case I was reported in the United States on January 21st this was in Washington State near Seattle the first case was reported in January 21st the first proper kits for detection really available until you know the first week of March so we're talking about 40 days now the virus all viruses have a number attached to them which we call are not or not is the number of people that you can spread the virus to some viruses have an enormous number measles is you know you spread it to many many people other other viruses have a very small or not if it depends of course on the community if you're very close together they are not increases if you're very far apart they are not decreases one of the reasons to keep people under lockdown is to bring the are not below zero below one sorry now if if you just understand you know simple biology 101 as it were if that number is greater than 1 if you are infecting more than one person then the rise of infections is exponential you will infect 3 people 3 will infect 9 people 9 will infect you know 27 and so forth if you calculate if you calculate or not I did this calculation yesterday last night late in in while I was finishing up a paper if you calculate or not from that from those 40 days that we didn't have a detection kit me weren't in quarantine etc that number is 1.2 or something to the power of 17 that is that is several hundred times the entire human population from that one patient if you assume that one patient infected three patients a day and those three infected three more that's it's three to the power of 40 which is which is hundred times or maybe a thousand times don't let me remember the the entire size of the human population it's more stars than there are in our galaxy again by several hundred times so preparation is key you know it's a preparation you know yes you know but but but dr. mukajee what you are saying therefore brings me to the next question you note so brilliantly on the history of cancer and EMM in the Emperor of all maladies cancer was seen as the great enemy in a way at the time what makes Karuna is so different to cancer or any other medical challenge that mankind has been confronted with this contagion that is spreading right across the world crossing all boundaries what makes her own are so different to what we've seen of any virus also in the past well so there are two features that are particularly complicated and there may be more than that but there are two features feature number one which is probably the most important and was recognized quite late is that asymptomatic carriers can carry the virus and spirits that means that the and or or pre-symptomatic carriers in other words you may have you may feel completely fine but you may be reading the virus this is very unique this is not the case for instance for Coronas cousin called SARS it's not the case as far as we know for Coronas cousin another cousin called MERS both of which are very dangerous viruses the lethality of SARS is actually much greater than than the lethality of Corona so that's one feature and the second one is is exactly what I just talked about is that in if you don't have any protection the so called are not of the virus the number of people that you can infect if you are a real viral carrier is is very large now even within that there are some people that we're now identifying called super spreaders and we don't know why but their viral load as well as the amount of viral load the tips they're expelling into the world is actually even an exponent higher than the than the others so these two features I mean we can keep on talking more and more about Corona of it but these two features are really unique about this virus and make it very hard to contain because if you're not sick and but you're still spreading the virus you won't know where'd you put yourself into quarantine whether to isolate yourself and how many people you exposed you know the reason I'm ask you this dr. mukajee's because various theories are doing the rounds and I'm still trying to understand does the medical world really know what is the pathogenesis of this virus does it affect young or old asymptomatic or symptomatic warm countries are better equipped to confront the viral than milder temperature color is do we really know what this enemy called corona is yet so so the answer is we know a little bits of it we don't know all the information we know little bits of the information well we know some of the patterns we know that young people seem to have a milder disease but let that let it be said that there are plenty of people in their 20s and 30s who have died from corona virus so so so although young people tend to have a milder version of the disease for reasons that we really don't know some people some young people have a very very severe version of the disease we heard of a young British nurse yesterday or day before yesterday 25 26 years old who passed away you know on having been on a ventilator we know that older people are more susceptible we know that if you have a pre-existing condition including obesity diabetes immune expression cancer especially cancer patients who are receiving chemotherapy for other cancers and our immune suppressed they have a very high rate of severe illness we know a lot about the virus we know this we now know the sequence of the virus we know how many genes it makes we know what the virus looks like they're microscopic studies and we know potential places that we could will come to drugs in a second but we know potential places to attack the virus and a potential place to make a vaccine against the virus but these take time these all of these things have taken time we have done this in truly record speed faster than anything that I can remember so we know a lot about the virus we know a lot of features of the virus but there are many things that are unknown one of those unknowns of course is what you just said the drugs and the vaccine because you know one of the theories for a cure is hydroxychloroquine india's just exported it to the United States and other theory countries with BCG Manila immunization programs like India are perhaps better equipped to take on the virus how do you see do we have a theory there's much talk today of an American company which claims to have got a drug that could combat corona are we any close to having a drug or vaccine and is there any truth in hydro hydroxychloroquine or indeed BCG vaccine theories so let's take those questions one in each arm I am let me take a step back before I answer the question and it would be a long answer so just be prepared when you develop a new drug against a virus or any microbe there especially in the in the context of a pandemic it really goes through certain phases the first phase is a drug that can be developed from a previously existing human drug so this is called drug repurposing so in other words the drug is already existing in the human pharmacopoeia we repurpose it to use it in in for this for this virus those are the ones that come first and the reason is that we know that their safety profile is is likely to be the best so there are several drugs in that category but the two that stood out stand out one of them is hydroxychloroquine and as you said and the second one is a drug called REM disappeared from Gilead pharmaceuticals so let's take those two we'll come back to those two in a second so the first category as I said is is repurposed drugs drugs are already been in humans the second set of drugs that will come on are antibodies not vaccines these are antibodies that are made to specifically latch on to coronavirus we know exactly where to latch on to because the viral structure has been solved for the most part and the structure of the so called spike protein the part that attaches itself to cells has been solved and the domain the sub part where its most likely to work as not is now known this will probably be a cocktail of vaccines so if cocktail of antibodies and they're being made right now by several companies and we actually Kiran Shah of bio Khan and I are in constant conversation to try and make these available in India under a licensing agreement so you'll hear more about that in a second through sin gene biocon etc we are in almost daily conversations to license them and bring them the trouble with antibodies is that they're much harder to make it's not like making tylenol or making penicillin or hydroxychloroquine you have to produce them in these enormous tanks almost the size of a swimming pool and you have to keep them clean and decontaminated and extract out the antibodies they are very likely to work and we will see them in human trials probably in June at the earliest because they take a lot of time to make the third category is new drugs that we invent from scratch new molecules and there are several candidates there these candidates usually they attack the virus viruses capacity to make copies of itself we should take a step back and say what is a virus a virus is a piece of genetic material with the coat which goes inside cells and then parasitizes the cell's genetic apparatus to make more and more copies of itself that's what a virus is so viruses have special genes in them as well as the cells genes that they use to make copies of themselves so the third category I'm sorry I hope everyone's following with me it's fascinating go ahead the third category are new drugs that are made from scratch by screening against specific parts of of this virus copying machinery these take even longer because the first step there is to go through safety studies in humans the so called phase one or even phase zero study after you've finished some animal studies to go through some human studies to ensure that in fact these work and then phase 2 and phase 3 studies randomized studies to look at whether it is work or not the final category the fourth one is a vaccine that's take the longest time there's of course the most effective in the context of a population but they take a very long time because of several reasons they you have to get the right vaccine you have to get your target the right protein but most importantly remember you're giving the vaccine to people who have no disease so your safety profile for vaccine has to be extraordinary so that's so we usually the fastest that we can generate a vaccine is has been on the order of you know 12 16 18 months and then you have to vaccinate people that takes another 12 months let's say across the world so you're really looking at a vaccine that is about 18 20 months away we are accelerating that at Adam at a massive speed but you're really looking at a vaccine that's really about 20 months away so you're probably looking at it towards the end of 2021 I just work I there was an interesting Court of yours dr. mukajee recently saying that if there is a drug or antibody it should be produced in India just trying to understand what that means what are you trying to say do you believe that the Indian medical system will throw up the drug the vaccine well certainly it can but right now but what the effort has been to find the best candidates and licensed them so that they can be made in in in India and by licensing you essentially approach we we have a consortium that that we've created and has existed for a while and licensing essentially allows us to bring that drug candidate to India to produce it because if it's going to be an antibody though the world's capacity to produce it will be stressed because the number of people that are involved so everyone will have to pitch in as I said these are made in vats you need a lot of training to make them you need a facility that is certified to make them and so so it's not just a trivial production and certainly everyone is involved there Indian scientists there are scientists from Korea from the United States and everywhere involved the the hope is to take that the leading candidates whether it be the antibody or the or the small molecules and try to produce them in India or import them in the importing is is harder usually the prices are out of range of what Indian of what Indian citizens can even pay so the the better model is to license it and and have the license for India alone and that can be done it just takes time let me I interesting question from Naveen bhardwaj and I'm looking at the present now not looking at 12 to 18 months when hopefully as you said 20 months from now we might have a vaccine Naveen bhardwaj asked what is the best strategy for this pandemic is it targeting herd immunity while deploying a new treatment example plasma therapy to avoid fatalities or is it simply as most countries are doing now staying locked down with minimal economic activity is there well so it's so so first of all there is no one there's no one solution because it's it's a combination of solutions and it'll have to be phased in and this is why preparation is very important there's a lot of different opinions different opinions on this you know countries can only stay in lockdown for so long so why are we doing a lockdown well there are there are the point of the lockdown is that as I said if you don't do lockdown the virus spreads exponentially I gave you a number that's a shocking number forty days but no with full contact and you get some number multiplied by 10 to the power of 17 you know more than the world's population by a hundred a hundredfold so so you I should say more than the world's population by several so the point of the lockdown is to decrease that are not valued it's a decrease everything is to decrease they are not valued because right now we don't have a therapy so a lockdown is basically a decrease of beyond all right now why what do you want to do that because that way we don't overwhelm the hospital systems because the only care that we have available right now for sick patients is is supportive care we don't have a medicine and if you overwhelm the hospitals the situation becomes like Italy or like Spain where basically every hospital was totally overwhelmed by by patients by locking down or by shutting it down you you smoothen the curve of or lower the curve of the spread of the infection now there are many strategies to get out of a lockdown and is there's a lot of debate about this I have my own opinion about it the first thing that I think that has to happen is that they're the only conditions where we can get out of lock downs our number one testing so test and detect and figure out what the real numbers are of the rate of infection so that you can find out whether this is a pandemic in this community this is a pandemic everywhere is the pandemic located in certain places in Delhi or certain places in Mumbai or is it in all over so that's one number two is quarantine and isolation of people who are virally infected and that needs to be enforced and that can be done using all sorts of technology can be done with low-tech high tech however you want it but it can be done the third is masking so you can lock yourself down you know in your house but you can also lock your respiratory system down and by that I mean you can prevent the virus from coming in and you can also prevent you from spreading the virus to other people so so a nice sound distancing masking I mean it you know what the you know the Indian system has been locked down of a fierce lockdown it's also been a dr. Mookerjee masks are being made mandatory increasingly esting perhaps has not been done enough so do you think that these are this is the sort of three-pronged strategy that any country must go through is it a one size fits all strategy in that sense at least as far as these three points go it's so exactly right and and phasing and and phasing and constant testing so phasing and constant testing is part of this so as you open the lock down you need to test you need to be able to isolate in quarantine and contact trace the trace contacts and number three you need I would say as as Universal facial masking with the highest grade masks available or possible - to be able to do this leave it leaves a very important open question which is to do about children because children are asymptomatic carriers and locking down children in other words not getting them to school is essentially locking down at least one of their parents and usually the mother for working mothers this is an extremely difficult situation because you can't have childcare at home as well as be working outside so what you do so one solution that we've been thinking about is where the children whether we could invent and also enforce masking for children in schools if you have to open schools so again the the first phases of this are it's not one size fits all but the principles apply right across every country as you remove a lockdown you have to do it in phases you know masking detection and quarantine are going to be permanent parts parts of our lives the next six eight months as far as I can tell we've just got about two three minutes and I just want a few quick answers to a few questions that are coming in for you doctor one of them is is there any evidence that genetically South Asians might be less impacted by corona virus does a gene predispose people to fall prey to certain values this is obviously someone who's read your book on genes yes sir so there's a major effort there's a major effort right going on right now to sequence several thousand genomes and look for susceptibility to corona virus you know the answer is going to be probably yes but we don't know what those genes are and we don't know we have no evidence thus far to know or understand whether South Asians are more protected or less protected we just don't have the answers what's your prognosis of the future dare I say a post corona world will it be a better safer world or a we change world as Sakshi well it'll be it'll be a changed world for sure we will be better prepared hopefully for the next pandemic and we will be on the constant vigilance you know I think we reacted late to this many countries we acted late to this and and that delay as I said was an exponential delay and so we will see a changed world a changing one of those changes as I think this is a question I want to ask India invest just 1.2 percent in public health doctors in many hospitals working in sub-standard hospitals do you believe one of those changes will be a reset where Public Health has to be put above the agenda I think health and public health in general after we put on top of the agenda I mean for a country of its size and 1.2 percent is a is a is a terrible number and and there is really you know pandemic preparedness requires an enormous investment and and and you see what happens when you don't prepare you know you may be saving what you know your 1.2 billion or dollars but your if you shut your economy first for you know one day you will you will you will expend that in in in in days so right absolutely you know this is a this is a this is this is something that should deserves more investment very quickly cancel stigmatize do you see corona being stigmatized well it's been stigmatized here I mean there's you know there's been racism against Chinese Americans with nothing to do with the pandemic you know I think the idea is that it will there will be a stigma attached to people who get infected there we should obviously are one of our jobs is to prevent that but to also encourage them to be in quarantine as long as they can sir at their own spread but spread the virus final question at a personal level how have you dealt with the Karuna challenge I know that you are probably going to hospital as a health worker so you're out and about lot of health workers I know affected in New York is that something that has been personally very difficult for you to deal with well I mean again for cancer patients I mean I'm an oncologist my particular arena has been to keep them safe it is to keep people who have immune compromised safe and try to maintain the protocols and the therapies that they're normally getting even under very reduced circumstances and we're trying our best but that's been the main impact the hospitals have been you know severely colleague who's asked a question Charlie the boss wants to know dr. mukajee how much credence are you giving to the theories doing the rounds that this virus was made in a lab in China well I think that I think it's very unlikely we have made in a lab in China I think you know the virus sequence resembles as far as we know viruses that are found endemic ly in bats so I personally don't believe that I know there's a lot of conspiracy theory around it that's that you know the virus sequence doesn't suggest that to me final question this is from Salone asking will we see dr. mukajee write a book one day on meeting the corona challenger history of the virus and interpret history of the virus well so you know I'm a viral immunologist by training my lab works on viruses different viruses are not a corona expert but I work on different viruses in viral immunology I have a book which has a big section on vaccines and and viruses but I don't think I'll be writing a history of the corona virus at least at least as far as I can tell you know dr. mukajee it's been a pleasure talking to you you've given us a real sense of what the world is up against you've taken time off at a very difficult time thank you very much stay safe stay well well let me just say that you know we the main the the main thing that we want is to buy time for ourselves until we get a good drug vaccine or drug candidates so if everyone can put pitch in and buy us time there are drugs coming there is hope at this end of this tunnel there are drugs coming the vaccine will be there there will be effective medicine so just buy us time by preventing the spread of virus and deaths that is your everyone's job as a public citizen is to buy us time and listen to the way that we are were responding to the virus as a role medical community if you can buy us time we we are trying our best to make new drugs against this virus and there will be a drug and an antibody and potentially that's a great message to send a message of hope in a way there will be a drug there will be a vaccine for now simply bide time stay home stay safe dr. mukajee thank you very much it's been a pleasure having you here on the india today ii contry thanks very much [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 1k9DUDGLN60 (https://youtu.be/1k9DUDGLN60) ===

Let's start again I'm Caroline Winterer, the 
director of the Stanford Humanities Center and   it's my great honor to welcome you to the 2018 
presidential lecture in the humanities and the   arts this series brings the most distinguished 
scholars artists and critics of our time to   the Stanford campus for lectures seminars panel 
discussions and a variety of related interactions   with faculty students and the community at 
large funded by the president's office and   administered by the Stanford Humanities Center 
these programs explore the most important and   compelling ideas in the humanities and arts in 
the 21st century it's my great honor tonight to   introduce the president of Stanford University 
mark TC lavinia who will then introduce our   speaker for the evening Siddhartha Mukherjee 
after professor mukajee's talk there will be a   brief opportunity for Q&A since becoming president 
of Stanford University in 2016 marked sta lavinia   has been an advocate of the importance of the 
humanities and arts as disciplines that open our   minds and teach us how to think about the great 
questions facing humanity in the past and in the   present so we're very pleased that he could not 
only join us this evening for the presidential   lecture but that he enthusiastically agreed to 
introduce our honored speaker for the evening who   is someone like the president who embodies the 
happy intersections between a life dedicated to   science and a commitment to the humanities please 
join me in welcoming president mark TCA Lavinia   great well thank you so much Carolyn and thank 
you all for being here this evening it really   is a very special pleasure for me to introduce 
tonight's speaker dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee that's   because Sid is not only a practicing physician 
a pioneering scientists and a best-selling   author he's also a close personal friend Sid is 
a veritable Renaissance man he's an accomplished   physician scientist who's done groundbreaking 
work in the biology of blood development with a   focus on understanding malignant and pre malignant 
blood diseases he's also a master storyteller who   has made the scientific explorations around 
cancer and genetics come alive for millions   readers around the world Sid is the author 
of the Emperor of all maladies a biography   of cancer which won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize in 
general nonfiction and which was later made into   a three-part documentary by Ken Burns the book 
tells the story of cancer itself and past and   present attempts to control it and to eradicate it 
now I'm not a book reviewer but I can assure you   that if you haven't read this book it is a must 
read a real page-turner it's beautifully written   compelling a narrative completely accessible 
to non-scientists and yet as the Mike I can   attest to as a scientist both sophisticated and 
fully accurate in its scientific presentation   it really is true tour-de-force and the same is 
true of his most recent book the gene an intimate   history this book provides a sweeping history of 
our understanding of inheritance and of genetics   from Aristotle through Mendel to the present day 
it also draws on SIDS personal experiences of   psychiatric illness in his family to explore the 
influences of our genomes and the limits of those   influences on our daily lives the book has been a 
New York Times bestseller and when was one of the   Washington Post's 10 best books of 2016 now we're 
especially proud of Sid because he is one of our   own a graduate of Stanford University from here 
he went to Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar and then to   Harvard Medical School today he is a an assistant 
professor of medicine and staff cancer physician   at Columbia University Medical Center in New York 
where he continues to see patients in addition to   performing research and of course to writing about 
science it's also in New York that my wife Mary   and I when we were living there had the pleasure 
six or seven years ago of meeting Sid and his wife   Sarah Z who the renowned artist and MacArthur 
Genius award winner who will be giving the will   Zee lecture tomorrow at 6 p.m. here in this very 
room so please be here again tomorrow and we'll   see you then the four of us became good friends 
and I can assure you that there's no greater joy   than spending time with Sid and Sarah whether to 
discuss science or art or politics or just life in   general to go to a Michelangelo or a David Hockney 
exhibit or to play touch football together with   some youngsters and to survive to tell the tale 
Sid's topic tonight is notes from the edge of an   experiment or cancers anxieties please joining 
me join me in welcoming back to Stanford dr.   Siddhartha Mukherjee so I cannot tell you what 
an honor it is to be back and what a pleasure   it is to be back at Stanford and thank you for 
inviting me to this lecture I thought I would   begin with the central argument so in the late 
half of the 20th century and in the early part   of the 21st century two very striking developments 
occurred in our understanding and imagination of   cancer you might think of these two developments 
as developments in time and in space the first was   that the locust of cancer as a disease formerly 
somewhat unknown and mysterious that locust moved   from the exterior to the interior from the outside 
to the inside and from the non-self to the self in   other words we became progressively aware that 
the locus where cancer develops or the cause   of cancer cancer arises from mutations in genes 
that are fundamental to the development of human   beings human cells to the physiology of ourselves 
to the metabolism of ourselves that for most part   cancer was a disease in which the corruption or 
the distortion was fundamentally a distortion of   self in the early part of the 21st century there 
was also similarly a movement in time in which   the in which our understanding of the locus 
of cancer moved from people who have men and   women and children who have the disease who are 
carrying the disease the burden of disease to men   and women before the cab the disease emblematic 
of this movement was the word provider which is   a word that has now become part of the language of 
cancer and that word refers to the idea a previous   someone who has yet to develop cancer but is a 
survivor of that future development of cancer   it's an Orwellian word and people have a hard 
time thinking about it but it's a survivor who   has not yet developed the disease that he or she 
may develop in the future think about that for a   second but nonetheless the idea that in time 
we began to think about patients before they   became patients to survey them to ask to under 
strata understand their biology often we are at   a place where we're performing deep surveillance 
of some of these people we are annotating them   genetically and we are making them up welcoming 
them into what Barbara Ehrenreich and others   have called cancer land this movement these two 
movements in time and space in cancer carried   with them and we stand we've this carried with 
them therapeutic breakthroughs and therapeutic   benefits the capacity to treat in the adjuvant 
setting or early after the removal of a cancer   when the body is technically cancer-free using a 
targeted therapy had a massive impact for certain   forms of cancer and certainly the capacity to 
genetically annotate those at risk for cancer   using genetic tools such as the Braca one and 
rocket two genes allowed us to survey people   and women before they could develop the disease 
the capacity to locate in space the disease in   the interior of the self obviously had a majestic 
influence on our understanding of cancer and re   formulated how we think and treat cancer there 
is little doubt that this science will continue   into the future but my talk today as a humanist is 
to consider what this does to our imagination of   ourselves and to the imagination of cancer in the 
future what does it do to us as a culture when the   when the locus of disease moves from the exterior 
to the interior what does it do as we move the   locus of disease from people who are survivors to 
people who are providers and that's going to be   the the the top the the bulk of what I'm going to 
talk about I'm gonna begin with comments that were   written in 2010 in in in a review of the Emperor 
of all maladies in The New Yorker by Steven shapen   the historian and shape and wrote that a world in 
which cancer is normalized as a manageable chronic   condition would be a wonderful thing and in fact 
this is an this is in some way an underestimation   of how wonderful it would be because of course 
we would have the capacity to bring two tools   to the to the problem that we didn't have before 
but a risk factor world in which we think of all   are all of ourselves as precancerous would not he 
continued it might decrease the incidence of some   forms of malignancy while hugely increasing the 
numbers of healthy people under medical treatment   and he concluded that would be a strange victory 
indeed in which the price to be paid for the for   checking the spread of cancer through the body is 
its uncontrolled spread through the culture that   is an idea that I want to explore more deeply what 
is it - check the connect the the spread of cancer   in the body what does it do to the so called as 
shape input at the uncontrolled spread through our   culture and I was reminded in in writing this 
talk of work done in an earlier decade by the   sociologist Erving Goffman who wrote about the 
idea of a total institution a total institution   Goffman wrote is a place of work in resident with 
a great number of similarly situated people cut   off from a wider community for a considerable time 
together lead and enclosed formally administered   and I would add surveyed round of life and one of 
the things that I want to consider with you today   is whether we are at the risk of creating cancer 
as a total institution and what that does to us or   understanding of ourselves as humans and in order 
to do this I thought I would introduce two clips   from the film that I made with with Ken Burns 
I've chosen these two clips for very specific   reasons the first one we called what while the 
clip was being edited and that's the I changed the   title of the talk somewhat I'll come back to the 
accounts from the idea of experiment but the first   one when we were cutting on the floor we used 
to call welcome to cancer land or Lori Wilson's   haircut Lori Wilson is a breast cancer surgeon 
was a cancer breast cancer surgeon originally   at she trained at part of the Hopkins program 
then had had an incredibly successful she was   a professor had an incredibly successful practice 
in breast cancer surgery and actually while this   is a strange but true story while we were filming 
the Emperor of all maladies found that that she   had bilateral breast cancer and the first clip 
is from dr. Lori Wilson's welcoming into cancer   land the second is a a different kind of clip but 
of course goes back to the idea of cancer being   located in the interior this is a an interview 
with Harold Varmus and Mike Bishop and their   discovery of the the startling discovery in the 
1970s that the genes that in there mutated form   caused cancer are actually genes that are already 
present in all human cells and those genes are a   substrate that are ultimately become cancerous 
once they are mutated through a variety of   insults you obviously will already understand why 
these two clips are together one of them begins   to describe what it is like the experience the 
human experience of welcoming into cancer land   and the totality of that experience and the 
second one again real oak a ski question of   what it is like to realize that the locus of 
illness in cancer this this disease that has   was and is continuing to progressively envelop 
our culture when the locus of the disease moves   from the exterior to the interior what what what 
that moment of discovery was like so I'll show   these two clips they'll go back-to-back and I'll 
come back and continue this conversation of these   two movements and what what they have done in 
history and how they influence our understanding   of off cancer today so if I can if you can dull 
these lights and then show the clips thank you yeah funny boy mommy likes cherries it's 
been a month since Laura's diagnosis and   her 20 week regimen of chemotherapy has begun 
I'll go first yeah my husband actually is gonna   shave his head with me and so we will 
until my hair grows back we'll both be   bald together he's my rock he's been there 
for everything good y'all forget I've been   ball headed before 20 years ago yeah before 
Laura and I got together in the first winter   when I grow in her and then Lord liked 
my hair when I haven't shaved it since okay I don't buy into the limey because so much of 
cancer is not predictable it has not said on   family history or any feature and so absolutely 
it could be me hey midnight you recognize mommy   have a 19 month old so absolutely could be 
me hey you recognize mom II have a 19 month   old this virus that causes cancer has four genes 
and they find that a closely related virus that   doesn't cause cancer has three genes and that's 
a very interesting difference what's this extra   gene and then the evidence begins to mount this 
gene are carried by the virus the extra gene can   cause the cancer it was called an oncogene a 
cancer-causing gene in the virus and then we   began to think about a puzzle and the puzzle 
was why does the virus have this cancer gene   this gene we called SARC the only thing it does 
is to convert the SAU to a cancerous state so the   cancer gene seemed almost superfluous well if the 
virus doesn't actually need the gene why why does   it have it were to come from maybe they thought 
the cancer-causing gene did not originate in the   virus at all maybe it originated in the chicken to 
my astonishment when we looked in normal chicken   sounds we found something that resembled the 
Sarka cancer gene and Rous sarcoma virus there   was a riveting moment everybody expected that 
the shark gene the shark uncle gene the cancer   gene was a natural resident within the genome 
of Rous sarcoma virus but in fact the profound   discovery they made was that Rous sarcoma virus 
had actually stolen and kidnapped that gene from   the repertoire of normal genes that are normally 
stored in the genome of normal chicken self if the Sark uncle Jean had actually descended 
from a normal gene in chickens where else might   it be found we looked at ducks we looked at emus 
Ria's which the most primitive birds living and   then eventually by fiddling with the technology we 
could show that was even in humans the fact that   Sark existed in all organisms not just in viruses 
but in chickens and geese and in humans that fact   gave a very crucial tool because that meant 
that genes that are capable of causing cancer   are already existing inside animal genomes I mean 
imagine how exciting that would have been now all   of a sudden you begin to see through the darkness 
a glimpse of what the clear theory of cancer is   there are genes in your body that control normal 
cellular growth and if you disrupt these genes you   essentially begin to unleash cancer so I want to 
now trace the little bit of the history of this   idea of as I said the relocation into the body of 
of cancer when the earliest descriptions of cancer   are of course hidden away to some extent in human 
history there's even no word for it we believe   that the first description of cancer occurs in 
this Egyptian document called the Edwin Smith   papyrus where it's mass in the breast is described 
this comes from around 2500 BC and a mass in the   breast is described as dense and cold as the him 
at fruit there is no name for this disease and   more importantly the scribe who writes also says 
that there is no treatment for this disease and   it's not until the it's not until years later 
decades even centuries later that we begin to   get the word cancer and what's interesting about 
it as a metaphor is the is that the word itself   is located outside the body it's located in the 
idea of a crabber for an organism that has come   to inhabit the body in this case people thought 
that the word karkinos for Krabbe exemplified what   it would be like for a crab-like creature to have 
crawled inside the body and and and the engorged   blood vessels around the tumor were thought to be 
the legs of the crab and hence the idea of the of   the crab and karkinos came apocryphally people 
argue that Hippocrates was the first to describe   cancer is the crab but certainly it finds its way 
to through the literature and certainly finds its   way through medieval literature and becomes 
formally described as cancer or karkinos as   the idea of a resident in the body unnatural but 
living under the body like a crab would live under   the sand it's not until much later again centuries 
pass it's not again until the late half of the   1800s and the early part of the of the 1900s 
when we begin to think about cancer as the idea   of a betrayal of cells or the betrayal of self 
this is Rudolf Virchow and one of his enormous   contributions was to realize that regardless of 
where cancer originated liver brain breast and   various cancers that there was a fundamental 
abnormality that linked all of them work how   also coined an extraordinarily important idea in 
the world of cellular physiology and that was on   the cellular cellular from cells come other 
cells and if you think about that idea more   thoughtfully people before workout had imagined 
that cells were born through a process that was   unknown they could come out of the miasma without 
having a cellular precursor but if you took work   housework seriously work out tracked cells as they 
move through the lifespans of embryos if you took   that work seriously this is in normal physiology 
you'd have to say that the only way that answer   could arise was from a normal cell something must 
have happened if you logically followed that work   something must have happened to a normal human 
cell to transform it into a cancerous cell and   therefore the question was briefly raised that 
if what was that something I was it an exogenous   agent was it something that was located inside 
the body was described this transformation but   was what was the nature of the agent worker 
himself didn't know work house work was was   thought about quite deeply for a while but the 
the pathophysiology of cancer why cancer existed   what its cause was was really largely forgotten 
people argued about whether it was a viral cause   was whether it was coming from the outside however 
while this debate was raging through parts of the   scientific community the the world of cancer 
treatment was was set on fire by the idea that   whatever it was however it came however it arose 
the removal of this foreign body would be would   be the cure for cancer this would culminate in the 
halstead radical mastectomy which was a which was   really described by Halstead as a method to save 
women from their from from this malignant thing   this malignant object that had taken over their 
their bodies and in fact the only way to cure   this malignant object was not just to attack 
it locally not just to remove it locally but   to actually extirpate it as Halsted described 
it with the most radical surgery possible and   in fact there began in the 1890s into the 1910s 
in 1920s a kind of manic race in the world of   surgery to remove more and more tissue not just 
the breast but in fact the underlying lymph nodes   the muscles and leaving patients leaving women 
deeply disfigured but this was taken as par for   the course this was understood as the necessary 
implement that had to be deployed in order to   remove this this visitation that had taken over 
a person's body and ultimately extirpated and and   and remove it so that the woman would be cured 
this is a quote from Halstead in fact that that   itching is from one of Halston's papers and as 
health that says the patient was a young woman   who I was loathe to disfigure but nonetheless this 
disfigurement was considered part and parcel of   the attempt to cure cancer and it really wasn't 
until the 1970s that that we went backwards to   words work how's description of cancer as a rising 
as a as rising as a process a distortion from a   normal cell into a cancer cell a transformation 
as we soon described of a normal human cell into   a normal cancer cell and that as you saw in the in 
the clip really shook the world of cancer medicine   cancer biology in fact human biology by its very 
spine because all of a sudden the locus of disease   was moved away from something foreign something 
that could be described as far away into something   very much located in the interior in other words 
the very genes that allow us our selves to live   divided metabolize if you make mutations in those 
genes the cells now are unable to stop living stop   dividing stop metabolizing and thereby unleashing 
the malignant process this was a discovery made   widely and several people entered this of course 
we showed you a clip with with Bob Weinberg   and Harry Varmus but it's the implications 
are particularly the cultural implications   the humanistic implications of this idea that 
cancer was that kind of disease which we hadn't   encountered before where the Animus of the disease 
emerged from the self was widespread and it took   some time before we began to fully understand the 
implications for human biology in general but of   course also the implications from how we think 
about ourselves the biological implications were   just as acute in fact the the idea that the idea 
that cancer arose as the consequence of mutations   in genes already resident in the human body solved 
an age-old problem in cancer biology which is how   could you possibly explain the fact that heredity 
environment chance and viruses could all cause   cancer these were known for a long time this is 
a picture of Hilario de Juvia who's a Brazilian   ophthalmologist who noted that there was a very 
rare variant of cancer called retinoblastoma   which which ran through a Brazilian family with 
with extraordinary penetrance and the only way   he wrote this his paper it was largely neglected 
but the only way you could now make sense of that   observation was to think that genes must have 
a role or heredity must have a role in cancer   this is Percival Pott the English surgeon who 
separately noticed that environmental influences   could cause cancer Percival Pott realized that 
Chimney Sweeps in in england had a very very   high incidence of scrotal cancer and part in 
fact coined the term carcinogen something that   generates cancer and and and hypothesized that was 
something in chimney soot in chimney dust that was   responsible for cancer we knew that there was 
a role of chance in cancer many families with   familial histories people men women would develop 
cancer at different times we knew that there was   a role that chance played from a variety of 
significant bodies of evidence and of course   the for the longest time as Varmus and Bishop 
pointed out people thought that viruses could   also cause cancer but the unifying theory here 
was that in all four cases whether genes the   environment chancer viruses in all four cases 
the material that was being tampered with the   material that was changing mutating whether it be 
through a carcinogen whether he inherited it from   your parents whether it came from a virus the 
material that was changing were genes that were   already resident within cells and of course I I 
did not put this up for for for humorous reasons I   I talked about extensively in the book this the 
implication of this particular in 1970s and 1980s   results in a kind of moment in which we begin 
to question and not write would we understand   the body as as a series of vulnerabilities 
which are exposed or or or manifested when   as a collaboration for instance between the 
environment and the body somehow that that the   problem locates itself within the body they have 
as in the Peugeot cartoon we have met the enemy   and he is us or in the in the in the beautiful 
statement read at the end of the Nobel Prize for   Varmus and Bishop in which they described cancer 
as a distorted version of our normal selves in   the in the years that followed much of our science 
explored the idea of this distortion what was it   like how many genes were required transform going 
back to work how a normal cell into a cancer cell   how do cells become cancerous and the idea that 
emerged from that would would would eventually   propel our understanding of not only cancer but 
also our understanding of how to prevent and and   treat cancer in patients who had not even manifest 
the disease I'm now moving slowly into the second   half not not the location of cancer the change 
of location of cancer in space but the change of   location of cancer in time this idea came out of 
work performed in the in the 1990s and early 2000s   as we began to sequence genomes human genomes 
normal human genomes and was extended as we began   to sequence cancer genomes so here's a schematic 
of that we need to understand that that that   implies me to understand that idea so I've made a 
schematic of it I'll come back to this schematic   in the talk but this is say a patient with breast 
cancer or a man with prostate cancer and by the   1990s our ability to sequence cancer genomes can 
compare what mutations had been accumulated in   those genomes compared to normal cells began to 
accelerate so here in for instance I've created   Ematic in which if you imagine the entire human 
genome as a piece of paper a blank sheet of paper   you could certainly by the early 2000s pinpoint 
the mutations that had accumulated in some cells   cancer cells that were causal and were responsible 
for the development of malignant behavior what   was interesting is that we could now compare 
across between one human being and a second   human being and we found that the patterns were 
very intriguing in the following manner here's   a second human being who also has the same cancer 
microscopically pathologically looked the same but   in fact the spectrum of genetic mutations in the 
second human being same cancer breast cancer or   prostate cancer but the spectrum of mutations was 
different between different individual samples or   different individual specimens of cancer here's 
a third example this brought home the idea which   we had not encountered in the history of illness 
which is that every specimen of cancer was its own   specimen of cancer or that every instantiation of 
the illness with its own instance of the illness   no other disease that we know of in human history 
had this level of molecular or genetic diversity   were still struggling to understand to become 
to to comprehend and to come to terms with this   level of genetic diversity but one of the things 
that was animated by by this by the discovery   of this level of diversity is that we began to 
think about ways or mechanisms by which we could   classify people based individuals with cancer 
based on these genetic fingerprints as you will   so that if you had one particular fingerprint of 
cancer you would be treated with one therapy if   you had a second fingerprint of cancer you would 
be treated with the second kind of therapy and   in the in other words the genetic fingerprints 
would guide what therapies you would be treated   with and there were several examples in the early 
2000s going into the the the early part of this   century where this form of targeted therapy with 
a precision component targeted therapy where you   were previously annotated genetically for your 
cancer genome we began to come alive this is an   example it's actually a real map of a cancer of 
a cancer genome again if you just take all these   maps and you were to collapse them and ask the 
question how frequent are certain mutations you   would end up with a map that looks like this 
one of the great success stories in these was   the development of new medical technologies new 
medicines that would look at these cancer genomes   and then try to develop therapies that were 
directed at these particular cancer genomes   and not only where this was this true for single 
genes but it would began to be true for networks   of genes so you would actually develop networks 
of genes and use those to predict which patients   would benefit or not benefit from cancer therapy 
perhaps the best example there are many of them   now but perhaps the best example of this is the 
drug Herceptin really invented I would say in   the environment in the environs of of where we are 
sitting now this is Barbara Bradfield's but we're   at field is the first patient who was welcomed 
into cancer land by her diagnosis of metastatic   breast cancer and she is actually patient zero 
of Herceptin she was the very first patient to   be treated with Herceptin remarkably she actually 
had the best response in the entire trial in that   original phase trial of two Herceptin and she 
had as I said diffusely metastatic her2 positive   breast cancer she's still alive today so she is 
this is about 18 years after her initial therapy   with Herceptin this is actually a photograph that 
which she her husband took on before my behalf I   called her up and this is the last photograph in 
my book in the Emperor of all maladies I mean this   of course was was is data from that pivotal trial 
women with with metastatic breast cancer women   who had been discovered with breast cancer in 
other organs in other parts of their body breast   cancer in their lung their bones and other tissues 
treated without Herceptin and with Herceptin you   can very clearly see why this pivotal trial was a 
was a landmark success in the use of a new form of   therapy not classical traditional chemotherapy 
but kind of therapy this one an antibody that   would recognize the cancer cells where the 
genetic mutation had made them vulnerable to   this particular drug the important thing the real 
of course there was little doubt that this kind   of therapy the use of targeted therapy precision 
therapy was important in in women where the breast   cancer had already spread outside the outside 
the local environment of the breast but to the   great surprise of our community although some 
people said that they would have predicted it   but to the great surprise of our cancer community 
in the 2000s was a trial which asked the question   well what if we treated with Herceptin women whose 
disease had actually been removed locally and they   had no signs whatsoever of remnant disease did 
no detectable signs of remnant disease in their   bodies so everyone following what the logic of 
what I'm saying so this is the compares in late   intervention so in other words a woman who has had 
metastatic breast cancer like Barbara Bradfield's   the use of Herceptin there's no doubt that that 
the survival of these women is prolonged that's   a survival curve but what was what was really 
shocking and important in the world of cancer   was this trial which ran in parallel this is 
the use of Herceptin in a woman whose breast   cancer has been surgically removed and there is 
no evidence of disease left in her body this is to   remove or to dispel any remnant tissue any remnant 
cancer cells that were left over and were missed   by surgery or had already spread outside but we're 
living in a kind of a dormant way that was outside   the local local therapy and this was considered 
a remarkable trial because all of a sudden we had   the capacity to treat not only women with cancer 
but really we were treating women with no evidence   of cancer with the history of cancer but with no 
evidence of cancer and this led to what I consider   the experiment the experiment that began in the 
in the early 2000s and that we were still living   through the experiment is whether this strategy 
of early detection personalization and targeted   therapy or immunological therapy will allow us 
to really treat men and women with cancer often   even without the cancer being present in the 
body at least visibly present in the body so to   detect as early as possible and to deploy cancer 
therapies at a point of time where in fact we may   be surveying for cancer but not even have cancer 
itself and so we began to imagine cancer then as a   disease of what I might call mitigated risk rather 
than focusing on who has cancer how is that how to   treat that person we began to imagine that there 
was a kind of funneling of risk in cancer how do   we reduce and identify those at risk how do we 
detect the cancer early how do we identify those   that are likely to progress and then how do we 
treat with the most effective least toxic therapy   to maintain a response and any remission so the 
clock of cancer as it were began to move backwards   towards the identification of risk towards the 
identification of those who were at risk before   often before the cancer itself had appeared and 
you can imagine that these these three arenas   would funnel an individual a human being through 
a kind of funnel of risk ultimately resulting   in an in in in a kind of report card of risk that 
would be modified as people aged and people moved   through what other people as I said have described 
as cancer land so how are we idea what was the   mechanism what are the mechanisms of identifying 
people at risk I would suggest that in this world   today we're increasingly becoming comfortable 
with identifying people at risk using genetics   and using chemistry using and I'll talk a little 
bit about that the important thing of course in   both cases using genetics and using chemistry and 
I've just to emphasize the point is that often our   goal is to identify and detect men and women at 
risk cancer who don't have cancer itself at least   in the in the old description or in the visible 
form that we used to use as criteria for treatment   so let's talk a little bit these are two separate 
arenas so let's talk a little bit about this kind   of annotation of risk one annotation of risk of 
course is genetic who carries genes what into   which individuals carry genes where their risk 
is increased for a particular form of cancer are   those people are those individuals should we be 
surveying them more actively if we find incipient   cancers in those individuals should we be treating 
them or should we be asking the question what if   those incipient cancers are unlikely to grow 
because of other reasons how do we discriminate   between those likely to get cancer how do we 
discriminate between those and the individuals who   are unlikely to get cancer so our models for this 
were relatively simple we had found by the early   2000s single genetic variations single genetic 
mutations inherited so these were inherited   mutations which would increase your risk of cancer 
the classic one mean Braca one and braca two so   these are mutations there are variations you would 
inherit from your parents there were occasional   spontaneous mutations but largely inherit from 
your parents where we could detect those mutations   based on your family history and use that to 
survey men and women with bracket1 and bracket   two mutations more intensively therefore as I said 
welcoming them into this funnel-like system in   which their risk would be annotated and we would 
survey them for the development of cancer but we   also knew that if you just take a disease like 
breast cancer about 70% of women who have risk   based on their family history so we know there's 
a familial component to their cancer 70% of those   women did not end up having it probably the number 
is even higher do not have bracket 1 and bracket 2   mutations so what was this mysterious other 70% 
where there was an inherited risk where there   was heritable risk because they could see the 
disease moving through families and we began to   use the somewhat paralyzing description of these 
at the syndrome as bracketry they were not bracket   one in bracket two we did not know what they were 
what what the genetic risk was and so we began to   use but it was a very unsatisfying description 
because we would tell patients we clearly know   that there's a heritable risk we know there's a 
genetic risk we cannot tell you and were still   we cannot tell your daughter's if they have the 
risk or they don't have the risk or your sons if   they have the risk and they don't have the risk 
although we know that it's running through your   family so this is the typical kind of bracket 
pet pedigree the bracket one bracket to pedigree   where you can see this simple risk but but but 
rocketry this more diffuse heritable risk seemed   like something much more complex like the genetics 
of things like human height where you know there's   a heritable component we knew if we've known 
forever tall people at all parents tend to   produce taller children shorter parents tend to 
produce shorter should and we knew for a long   time there's a strong heritability but in in for 
a single individual we had no idea what genes were   responsible and we had no idea how to annotate 
those genes what has happened in the last ten   years is that this complex the complexity of this 
kind of risk is now being broken apart mostly by   computational Sciences and mostly by a combination 
of simple algorithms extraordinarily complex for   humans but simple computational algorithms which 
are additive versus more deep learning strategies   which go into the genome or can go into the genome 
and understand complex genetics I'll give you one   example of this from height and then give you a 
more I think more clinically relevant example from   from cancer this is a study that was recently 
performed which tries to use deep learning to   predict human height and essentially it has if 
you can imagine it's very simplistic description   but essentially takes on one hand hundreds of 
thousands of individual genomes again somewhat   description hundreds-of-thousands simplicity 
of individual genomes each of which where we   know the height of the individual and it asks 
a computational algorithm in this case a deep   learning like algorithm to go into that database 
and try to attach connection strengths to each   of the genetic variations in these hundreds of 
thousands of individuals and ask can you predict   height based on this can you learn to predict 
type and this is a curve that shows the data on   one hand on the x-axis is the predicted height 
on the y-axis is the actual right and what you   realize to me actually perhaps chillingly that 
in fact the algorithm does very well so if you   have an individual sitting right here over 
here their predicted height is about half a   centimeter away from the actual height I am sure 
I don't need to convince this audience why this   is both chilling and and and and surprising in 
other words you could if this algorithm worked   now on a larger scale you could predict your child 
or your unborn child's height future height based   on genetic information alone and of course that 
has massive implications not only for height but   for a variety of other traits features diseases 
etc what's interesting about this is that about   3,000 to 5,000 genetic variations were involved 
probably even more and in fact the more you do   the more deeper the deeper you dive in this 
situation simplistically speaking that the   more information the more accurate you can get 
and the more data there is the more accurate you   can get this is the second case that I talked 
about this is cardiovascular disease but what's   interesting in the in the chart below is breast 
cancer and what you can see again this unlike the   first case does not require deep learning this 
has been called a polygenic risk score you can   understand why now polygenic because multiple 
genes are involved risk score because you're   predicting risk the the genetic architecture 
remains extremely complicated but focus for   a second on on on these two arrows the the the 
one above is for breast cancer the one below is   severe obesity with with algorithms like this in 
this case the odds ratio which is a way of saying   the heightening of risk for for the particular 
trait is about five four point four three in   the case of severe obesity at the top point two 
five percent of the distribution the odds ratio   is almost Sevenfold so so you can understand you 
can begin to understand how we are creating a way   of genetically annotating risk before risk occurs 
itself and that of course is contributed to this   idea of pre virus shipped in other words all of 
us right now could begin to be annotated in in   in risk and could begin to imagine ourselves as 
low sigh of diseases waiting to happen obesity   waiting to happen cardiovascular disease waiting 
to happen breast cancer waiting to happen while   this genetic based assessment of risk is ongoing 
we're also simultaneously learning to assess risk   through chemical means really through DNA and 
through visual means this is what work actually   done at Stanford but I wanted to illustrate it 
with a close friend of mine who will Kirksey   who sadly died last month of metastatic melanoma 
this is a picture of will Kirksey at long before   he developed the melanoma his mother went back and 
found these pictures from this is in case this is   a at a wedding and sure enough there is a lesion 
that is present in fact there are two lesions that   are present one just under his ear and one just 
on the side of his cheek both were malignant in   fact one was the metastasis of the other and this 
would ultimately spread and sadly kill will kersky   work done recently at Stanford allows us to be to 
diagnose and discriminate between these benign and   malignant lesions at first presentation based on 
algorithms so an algorithm visualizes and asks and   and learns much like an algorithm had visualized 
and learned how to diagnose genetic risk in this   case it's it's using a visual cue to distinguish 
between melanomas that are malignant versus other   skin lesions that are benign and by the way I've 
seen as you can imagine plenty of melanoma in my   life I could not tell you why on earth this 
lesion was learned by the computer too big to   be classified as malignant looks very benign to me 
where is this lesion up on top this corner lesion   over here was classified as benign they actually 
turn out to be correctly classified but in fact   was learned by the by the algorithm and I was 
reminded when I was speaking to a dermatologist   about this study this came out of Stanford as 
I said I was reminded when I when I was booked   to dermatologist is that when she is training 
a new dermatologist the new young dermatology   the dura mater pathologist starts with a case 
study of zero and goes to a case study of one   at the first time she sees or he sees a melanoma 
the computer the algorithm starts with the case   study of 500,000 and when you put the new one goes 
to a case study of 500,000 and one and so forth   so the idea that came out of this study which we 
discussed at this meeting with the dermatologist   actually wrote about is an idea which is again 
simultaneously surprising and chilling what if   you agreed to what if you voluntarily agreed to 
send a photograph of someone like will Kirksey   before they were aware of their disease on social 
media on facebook what if the algorithm could scan   through and pick out people who were likely 
or unlikely to develop malignant disease is   that a word that we want to live in in which we 
submit ourselves to this kind of surveillance   if that sounds fantastical to you here is another 
invention coming out of Stanford itself this is a   fantastical idea of using a a perpetually scanning 
bathtub that would look using ultrasound to see   if you had changed in in pancreatic Anatomy in 
ovarian Anatomy things that are occurred in the   world of cancer and again you would voluntarily 
enter this kind of surveillance of as a mechanism   to detect this disease in its earliest form we 
don't we have no evidence that this will work   and I've repeatedly pointed out that we read what 
we do know is that there patients who will have   these lesions who may not end up having cancer 
for a variety of reasons we know this from a   huge literature where surveillance has been used 
but these are more and more sophisticated versions   of surveillance and you can imagine that the body 
under surveillance is a body where you will detect   not only incidental cancers but real cancers in 
the case of will Kirksey in fact we went back and   looked at that and sure enough the algorithm 
had classify would have classified that as a   malignant tumor and the final piece of this kind 
of surveillance is a project that actually we are   involved in but but it has many many components 
but that is to look within blood itself for the   bits of DNA shed by cancer cells long before 
cancer becomes visible this project one of the   companies is actually located down the street 
from you called Grail the name itself should   suggest the should suggest to us the the ambition 
of being able to detect like the Holy Grail the   earliest science of cancer before cancer appears 
this one is an NIH funded project out of Hopkins   called cancer seek SEK is a clever way of also 
spelling seq sequencing which is a mechanism to   look for the earliest signs of cancer in your in 
your blood before the cancer actually develops and   they are very impressive early data which shows 
that for instance in patients who have ovarian   cancer this is just mostly retrospective data 
but in patients who have ovarian cancer their   capacity to detect this cancer using a blood test 
goes to a hundred percent so in other words every   woman who had ovarian cancer was found to have 
an abnormal signal off within the blood without   looking for anything any pathology in the ovary 
in liver cancers approaches a hundred percent in   breast cancer less so and we don't know why what 
we also don't know of course is what to do with   these men and women who've been screened and 
found to have cancerous predisposition either   through genetic means or through chemical or DNA 
based means what should be the who they be treated   should we go back to the experiment where we had 
deployed like with Barbara Bradfield's targeted   precision therapies based on their genetic 
predispositions once you're under surveillance   what happens to you do some of these cancers never 
grow because of seed and soil reasons do some of   these cancers never take root because the body 
rejects them immunologically but they're still   detectable by DNA these are questions that are 
central to what's going on and so our idea of how   to imagine cancer has is is is under flux it is 
itself - - - sadly pull the old metaphor the idea   itself is metastasizing we chair changing the way 
we imagine our imagination of cancer and that has   consequences because we are now repeatedly finding 
ourselves as human beings under surveillance so if   you think again of cancer in society as a disease 
of mitigated risk the questions have now turned to   questions like who is likely to progress once 
you've identified these individuals as people   who are have or will have cancer in their bodies 
I'll spend the last few slides talking about as   cancer talking about therapies as cancer has moved 
that pointed out from the exterior to the interior   we're increasingly also using the the interior 
as therapy against cancer virtually all of you've   heard about immunological therapy for cancer this 
is one of the startling developments of really the   last decade or so and the idea that we are trying 
to understand not cancer in isolation but cancer   in its presence within an immune system to the 
capacity to raise the immune system and and deploy   that immune system that had been inactivated 
by cancer against the cancer itself this idea   has come out of really decade decades-long work 
but reinforces the the metaphor that the disease   is inside the body and potentially the cure is 
also inside the body this is the pivotal trial   data from the pivotal trial that showed the 
effectiveness of immunotherapy in lung cancer   and I had made a personal sort of theoretical bet 
that during my lifetime we would not see a therapy   that would be successful for lung cancer and I was 
wrong this in fact is a successful therapy for a   admittedly a smallish fraction of patients with 
lung cancer but certainly an effective therapy   for lung cancer and melanoma being the first to so 
I therefore want to return to the questions that   I had asked in the beginning of the talk which 
the questions remain remembering Lori Wilson's   welcoming into this world remembering the fact 
that now that welcome is rapidly expanding its   horizons we have two mechanisms that we are 
using to double triple quadruple the entry   of people without cancer into cancer and we 
think and there is powerful evidence to believe   that some of these people actually will have 
therapeutic benefit from the various therapies   that were in in hair inventing in concomitant 
ly as these patients enter cancer land but of   course the idea of being under surveillance and 
resource the idea of being described as a person   at risk and being described as a provider of of 
cancer itself has has caused already fundamental   changes in how we imagine ourselves fundamental 
changes in how we imagine our vulnerabilities   and fundamental changes in what the institution of 
cancer represents for human beings and of course   this is why I was reminded of work by Goffman 
and all of a sudden began to understand sitting   in my clinic in New York I began to understand 
how much of the totality how much of danger we   have in inventing and deploying the totality 
of institution of cancer for individuals who   are actually cancer free or maybe just prone to 
cancer because of genetic risk so I'll end again   with repeating the the the concerns about about 
a culture where we are expanding or dilating the   totality of institution of cancer and and wonder 
with you whether this is a a cultural risk or   a behavioral risk that's worth checking would we 
want to live in a society where our own bodies are   under surveillance even if it's for therapeutic 
benefit would you want to inhabit that place would   you want are we ready to open in this experiment 
of using powerful therapies potentially curative   therapies in men and women who have the earliest 
signs of cancer what would what would we do how   would we run that experiment and finally what 
it does to the the idea of does it similarly   situated to use Erving Goffman's word cut off from 
a wider community of those who are not providers   for a considerable time forced them to lead an 
enclosed formally surveyed administered round   of life and once again they're for remembering 
Steven shape ins idea that came back to me really   a decade after he had almost a decade after 
he had reviewed the reviewed my book and I'll   read that to end now with the now with a renewed 
understanding I hope with of what it might be to   live in this culture of surveillance where the 
body is perpetually a site or a locus of future   cancer world in which cancer is normalized as a 
manageable chronic condition would be a wonderful   thing but a risk factor world in which we all 
think of ourselves as precancerous would not   shaping argues it might increase if I decrease 
the incidence of some forms of malignancy while   hugely increasing the numbers of healthy people 
under medical treatment the question is open   whether it would be a strange victory in which 
the price to be paid for checking the spread   of cancer through the body is a uncontrolled 
spread through the culture thank you very much   I'll be delighted to answer any questions yes a 
couple yeah on this these two corners there's a   mic coming towards you I'm gonna have a sip of 
my tea thank you so much is this wonderful and   terrifying at the same time you showed a slide 
in which you were talking about blood testing   of various types of cancer and that there was 
100% accuracy after the fact yes with ovarian   cancer is there a simultaneous testing of well 
people so that you can get a sense of what the   percentages of well people who also have those 
traits so that is the entire point of the test   the entire point of the test is to deploy them on 
people who are well so that these cancers which   are particularly the ones that are cut ovarian 
pancreas and others would be detected before   they could be detected visibly by any other means 
this as I said is the dilation of the world of   cancer it the the purpose of this test is to the 
ultimate purpose of this test is not to diagnose   women who already been diagnosed with cancer or 
men who already been diagnosed with cancer but to   find those women and men whose cancer has not 
been diagnosed and asked the question can you   diagnose them before it's visible by any means 
I understood that I meant well people who remain   well yes absolutely so this is in other words 
in the fantasy of this test it would be well   people who remain well and would be continuously 
surveyed if that's what you're asking until they   presumably began to develop signs of one of the 
various cancers they would be continuously survey by the way we mean ah and I understand why 
it's terrifying you also must understand how   exhilarating it would be to detect an ovarian 
cancer before it spread how exhilarating it   would be to detect a melanoma before it became 
metastatic I mean this is this is what we what   we had dreamed about in the world of cancer and 
cancer prevention this was the dream it's just   that when the dream is coming closer and closer 
it seems that we are not very comfortable with   important aspects of it but let me not minimize 
how exhilarating it would be yes sorry thank   you for the talk I'm trying to figure out which 
side of it you come down on because it raised the prospect of us all being in this no pre 
viable world but at the same time you seem   very enthusiastic about some of the studies that 
are being done in their ability to predict and   secondly is there any doubt that we would 
all get progressively more comfortable with   the idea of being in this provider world I mean 
after all we get used to things like statins and   many other preventive medicines so is there any 
doubt of where we are all eventually going to   end up well I have doubts I'm conflicted about 
it I have doubts I have doubt perceiving myself   as a provider I think it changes the I think 
it fundamentally changes at a humanistic this   is a this is a this is a this is a humanities 
lecture and this is why I chose this topic it   fundamentally changes my imagination conception 
of myself it fundamentally changes my imagination   conception of those around me my friends my family 
because I'm now thinking about themselves not as   not only as in their sovereignty but I'm thinking 
of themselves them as low sigh of risk I think it   would be impossible to argue that that does 
not change who we are we can certainly get   comfortable with it but with that comfort comes a 
fundamental change in who we think of ourselves as   human beings so I'm conflicted if going back to 
your first course I'm very conflicted about it I   would as I said I'm an oncologist I treat cancer I 
write about cancer I think about cancer all cancer   all the time but and I understand as I said 
to the the first person who asked the question   there is let me not minimize the exhilaration 
of being able to detect a metastatic melanoma   before it metastasized but on the other hand I do 
have conflicts about entering provider world they   will do one more so that in networking yes sorry 
because they're now coming out of the Woodworks hi   yeah I have a question about other diseases yeah 
you talk about cancer but it seems like there's   a lot of diseases for which provider ship might 
become an increasing reality if cancer is unique   what sets it apart and if it isn't what do you 
think will become like cancer and that there are   massive numbers of providers so special I don't 
think cancer is unique it's only unique because   it's such a powerful genetic disease the genetics 
is so powerful last night we actually had a very   important conversation around the table around 
Alzheimer's disease or other neurodegenerative   diseases where you can actually get risks based 
on genetics you can get risks that may be five   seven tenfold higher than the rest so genetic 
diseases and in fact possibly diseases where you   can see environmental stamps in chemical stamps 
of the environment on on human cells both would   be amenable to this kind of surveillance in fact 
as many of you know this is already happening in   diseases like Alzheimer's disease cardiovascular 
disease obesity and of course going into a whole   host of other things that we don't classify as 
diseases but lie in the continuum of normalcy   and normal traits but going back to your question 
could be reclassified as pathology once we start   to think about them in in quantitative ways 
there's a fundamental danger there too because   we cross once we begin to think of human variation 
in these quantitative ways as risk the word risk   itself implies pathology so so certainly other 
diseases other traits if hereditary particularly   for hereditary are amenable to this kind of 
analysis thank you very very much thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 1w5enC9Y0HM (https://youtu.be/1w5enC9Y0HM) ===

as we were treating AML with 7 and 3 1977 we are still doing the same in 2018 what is the best way forward to change this by 2028 well I think one idea that's become quite clear particularly in AML is that we need to find the biology more deeply we don't understand how fundamentally don't understand what drives these cells you know that's the surprising story with at least myeloid leukemias was that when the cancer genomes were being sequenced there was the simple idea that we would sequence all these cancer genomes and all the genes that would fall out would be genes that controlled cell growth so they would be very would be a quite a simple kind of answer it turns out as you know very well in AML the most commonly mutated genes we still don't understand why they how they contribute to the malignancy you know genes like tattoo and dnmt3a these are genes that have to do with the methylation of DNA demethylation of DNA how does that make a cell become completely unable to stop dividing so one aspect of that is to concentrate on the fundamental biology of the disease but as you know very well and this is what I've spent most of my life thinking about that is just the half the picture that is the yin in the yin and the yang the yang is the microenvironment why does AML live in the bone marrow what is what about this disease and how do we alter that micro environment using immune system immune system using cellular components of the body using normal parts of human physiology how do we alter that environment to now attack it as the disease so in if you were to ask me in 2019 you know what will really be a landmark study in ml I would say somehow combining the CN and yang somehow combining our capacity to understand the biology and target the disease using targeted therapy some kind of medicine medicine that really shuts off this abnormal growth like a you know hopefully like in without side effects but at the same time concentrate on the microenvironment find out why this and that certain places Emily doesn't grow in your nose it doesn't grow you know interestingly doesn't tend to grow typically even in the brain you know but on the other hand other leukemias migrate so quickly there to the brain so they're very very seed and important seed in soil questions and I think we free tackle both the seed and the soil for AML in 2019 that's the kind of study that I look forward to combining a powerful immunological arm with a with a medicine well I think that I think part of what we're doing wrong is the cancer therapy I think appropriately is built like a pyramid the bottom of the pyramid is cancer prevention the intermediate layer of the pyramid is the early detection of cancer and the top of the pyramid is the treatment of cancer now obviously as you know a lot of attention focuses on the top of the pyramid because that's when patients come to see you they want to be treated for a disease that they have meanwhile cancer prevention is a much much more difficult in some ways puzzle to crack because because you know you're trying to prevent a disease that doesn't exist you're trying to prevent it from existing in the first place but that is the appropriate way that the pyramid should be set up fundamentally now for the longest time we thought that exploring the treatment paradigms which somehow flow backwards and allow us to detect early and also allow us to prevent cancer and that's happened to some extent but it hasn't happened to the extent that we really really want it to happen that's part of the reason that we I think what we've what we're doing wrong is we were trying to use the treatment paradigm to try to understand early detection and to try to understand cancer prevention but as we move forward I think they we really need to integrate these three pieces together again going back to what the thing that I'm obsessed with the microenvironment the body states the immunological state of the body that could be very important in cancer prevention you see we could understand how cancer is only growing certain individuals but not and under other individuals and we could change the physiology hopefully to prevent cancer in a way that's much more tractable on the other hand what's what's what's been surprising and somewhat disappointing is that the concentration on treatment particularly the kind of monomaniacal concentration on cancer genomics has really not told us very much about how to prevent cancer in the most of the most of the people it has not informed in the way we had hoped how to prevent cancer so we need to rebuild this pyramid as it were from scratch understand the contributors of the pyramid understand that we need something some deeper understanding of a host physiology the environment of the host the micro environment of the host the behavior of the host that makes them susceptible or not susceptible cancer I'm not I'm not dinging the cancer GOG no I'm not dinging cancer genomics I'm just saying again that there's a yin and yang quality about it we focused mana maniacally on one aspect of the puzzle but we haven't been able to integrate down to the bottom where the real sort of gain would lie but since most cancers increase with age even having good health we may not matter because the host is decrepit well so having you're preaching to me I this has been sort of the center of what I've thought about for a long time I think again if the host is decrepit then our capacity to understand how to treat cancer has to change because we have to take into consideration the host this is a classical seed and soil problem this is a classical problem in which you if you focus monomaniacal on the seed and forget the soil you will not understand the real dynamics of what is happening what's interesting is in fact if you look at some tumors not all tumors we look at tumors the mutations that are found in children are very similar to the mutations found in adults that's not true for all tumors there's some unique ones that are in children and yet the same tumors with the same sort of mutational spectrum do they do relatively better in children and relatively worse in adults yet again suggesting that there are two aspects to this to this puzzle I think that the solution out of this is to again give deep consideration to what the host is what is the biology of the host look like what are the factors in the host that contribute towards or against the development of cancers why do some host and it's an interesting question why do some host if you look that you can find cancers in their body but they haven't become what we would call you know invasive or malignant or or or the kinds of cancers that will kill you some people seem to have the capacity to keep cancers at bay we know this from a whole history of autopsy studies what is it about them what is it about those people so yet again I mean you know it's the same questions keep coming up in 2019 and I think they're coming up for a reason they're coming up for a reason because we have solved to some extent one part of the puzzle of cancer genetics puzzle not fully solve to some extent the cancer genetics puzzle but we haven't solved the host puzzle we haven't solved the microenvironment puzzle and we haven't solved how to take these two factors together and develop new lines of therapy going away from this 7+3 as we move into the future that's the problem I think next question your great knowledge and experience in this field if you were given limitless resources how would you plan to well I would go back to this pyramid I would go back to the this this idea that we need to relearn how to think about this scheme in terms of prevention detection and and treatment and we need to integrate these we need to figure out how that what we've learnt about cancer treatment thus far can be translated into early detection and can be translated into into prevention and take very seriously the problems that lie in the bottom two layers so just to talk about early detection we are now at a phase where we can have powerful ways to look at a host blood to see whether genes that are associated with cancer are have spilled out into the blood can we then find those cancers these are powerful technologies what we don't know is whether we can find the cancers that are likely to kill you or we'll just find lots and lots of cancers and just you know over diagnosed people and end up you know doing invasive things on people that actually don't deserve any of that so that's a it's a big puzzle in the early detection field the big puzzle in the prevention field is that although we've looked a lot we haven't been able to find a whole host of preventable chemical carcinogens a removable chemical carcinogen since the 1980s or 1990s I mean such as cigarette smoke which is clearly a carcinogen so you know we found what we have found rather is either many many carcinogens with small effects you know there many examples of this or we are now beginning to find physiological States body states host states that are more inclined or less inclined to develop cancer even hosts genetic states that are more inclined or less inclined to develop cancer so I think in prevention we have we were starting to move away from this hunt for it you know this mysterious carcinogen we hope to or series of carcinogens that we hope to find and remove from the environment towards trying to understand more deeply about what causes so how much of it is random error how much of it is intrinsically built into cellular division errors of cell division and I think this is going to be an area that we that you know everyone will focus on host metabolism host genomics that as I said before the environment the micro environment immune system the behavior of the host the exposures that happen how to take all of this together and build a more robust platform for cancer prevention I think it's I think it's a it's a complex blessing and I do understand that complexity to know a little bit about the history of cancer I mean it is certainly true that we shouldn't have backed away as a community from offering toxic therapies to patients who actually won't are unlikely to benefit from those toxic therapies the the plea on the other hand is to remember that this that the road to progress in many cancers was followed by extraordinarily toxic trials it's not only difficult trials and each one of them taught us something so my general plea is that if we're going to offer these kinds of therapies that we do it in a mode that we that we're also learning something about the future if you're doing this just to satisfy ourselves that's though as doctors just to palliate ourselves as doctors that is the that is the lowest of the low goals certainly if it gives the patient's hope you know I think there's there's a reason but that's a conversation you need to have with someone and it's very honest conversation oncologists often run away from that conversation doctors run away from that conversation but you need to have it but my general plea is that we if we do is this the only way that we would do this is to learn something from the process so that the in the next iteration it moves a little bit more towards something more powerfully therapeutic and that has happened in the history of cancer thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 3ylhx_zgKpo (https://youtu.be/3ylhx_zgKpo) ===

session 79 the song of the cell Siddharth Mukherjee in conversation with Willian Dalrymple Siddharth Mukherjee is a famed oncologist biologist and celebrated Pulitzer prize-winning author his most recent book the song of the cell examines the basic autonomous unit that makes up all organisms steeped in scientific research and visual metaphors of cell systems mukherjee's words create a lucid and Vivid picture of the discovery of cells and our understanding of them in conversation with festival co-director and historian William Dalrymple Mukherjee presents a panoramic Saga that combines Memoir history and science as it attempts to answer the questions of what it means to be alive Siddharth Mukherjee is a pioneering physician oncologist and author who has redefined a public discourse on human health medicine and science a profoundly influential voice in the scientific Community his emperor of all maladies a biography of cancer earned him the 211 2011 Pulitzer Prize his latest book the song of the cell has been named a New York Times notable book of 2022. William Tower limpel is the author of Wilson prize-winning white Mogul stuff Cooper prize-winning the last Mughal and the Hemingway and kapuscisky prize-winning return of a king his book The Anarchy was shortlisted for the Duke of Wellington medal the Tata book of the year and the historical writers association award and won the 2020 Arthur Ross medal from the U.S Council of foreign relations he has been awarded five honorary doctorates is a fellow of the Royal Society of literature the Royal Asiatic society and the Royal Society of Edinburgh and has held visiting lectureships at Princeton Brown and Oxford where he's currently an honorary bodilian fellow he was presented with a precedence medal by the British Academy and was named one of the world's 50 thinkers for 2020 by Prospect magazine he's a founder and co-director of Jaipur literature Festival ladies and Gentlemen please join me in welcoming Siddharth Mukherjee and William darrenberg [Applause] one bit of my biography that was left out in that was the fact I failed my biology O level so the Natural Choice to uh talk to my old friend sadata but he kindly and flatteringly asked me to do this so forgive any uh scientific and uh biological uh nonsense that you hear from me over the next hour it is particularly daunting to talk biology at whatever level with one of the most remarkable people of my entire generation what you heard read out in that extraordinary biography of sadata was just one side of his life which is his writing life what was not mentioned is that as well as this extraordinary successful non-fiction career which is you know by far he is by far the most successful non-fiction writing Indian in history uh there is a very very strong um fiction tradition in this country but surprisingly few people from here win the big prizes of non-fiction and sadata has won them all but that is just one aspect of his biography he's also a practicing Doctor Who heals people on a regular basis from the horrible disease of cancer he also runs one of the leading cancer research Labs the Mukherjee lab which is patenting and pioneering new cures for cancer on a on a separate basis and on top of all that he's a spectacular musician and has toured with his band The jog blues and sang drupad and hindustani vocals in some of the great concert tours of the world so this is no uncommon mind that we are grappling with here it's all made up we should also say the other the funniest thing about Serato at the end of all that it's his wife that got the MacArthur genius Fellowship that wasn't made up and um the couple were named recently by Vogue as the most brilliant couple in town the town being New York and they are an extraordinary double Act but this new book is the third book of sadata's which deals with first up with cancer the second with genes and the third with the cell and in the sense they form a Trilogy um very much tackling the areas that you've dealt with as a practitioner of medicine and as a researcher but the astonishing thing about this writing is that dealing with very complex science he writes with such Grace and narrative flow with metaphors so beautiful that even a scientific such as myself can understand get interested and begin to comprehend the complex science which he is describing it's a spectacular mixture of science A History of Science and History of scientists and a notebook in a sense of a practitioner dealing with the business that he's writing about and as anyone in this audience that ever wants to learn how to write non-fiction about any complex subjects could learn the art from this book forget going on writers courses just read a book by sadata Mukherjee and you'll be well on your uh on your way to understanding how this is done to get straight to the business of cells you use the phrase here a life within a life an independent living being a unit that forms part of the whole a living building block contained in a larger living being what do you exactly mean by that so um first of all thank you for having me here um um to answer the question I I I suppose I should give you a little bit of the Genesis of the book and and why this book and and uh why this book for for everyone um why this book for a historian why this book for um anyone else um the uh the back story of all of this goes back to an idea that I've been toggling with for a while which is the idea of the universality of laws in in the Sciences in the social sciences and and other disciplines in history Etc um and there was a there's a feeling among biologists that were sort of the third degree of science um physics being sort of a little bit ahead of us chemistry being a little bit ahead of us and and we're the people who bring the physicists their coffee um and um because they're full of laws um but it turns out that in fact if you look at the world of the living The Living World um there are three extraordinarily universal laws that sweep through the living world um the first is the theory or law if you want to call it of evolution and in fact you can use Evolution now not only to understand biology you can use Evolution to understand social sciences economics potentially even history um there's something about this idea of evolution that really sort of strikes you and there are a thousand books on it the many I would recommend um and and of course you know they've really kind of converted this uh this field into into popular literature um the second is the universality of genetics the genetics law the laws of genetics and again there are a thousand books on genetics um including my own book The Gene and intimate history the Third just as important is the universality of of cell theory that all living beings and we'll come back to this over and over again that that first of all all living beings are made of cells and that all diseases vegetables and animals yeah vegetables animals um are made of cells and um and that all cell all illness all pathology is ultimately cellular pathology very powerful sweeping statement about all living beings now unlike the first two Evolution and um and genetics cells I thought had been a little bit gypped um there wasn't a book um and it's again similar to the emperor maladies there wasn't a book about cancer so someone had to write it um there wasn't and so you know there's certainly some books about cell biology and cell theory but there really isn't a way that you can bring people into this spectacular revolution of the understanding of the human body of illness of Wellness of normalcy Etc you know and and all its Dimensions um and that's why you know I began to sort of explore this and that's why this idea of you know what is a cell a cell is the least um autonomous unit of life and most people I would imagine in the audience know what that that is but there are understanding sort of stops there but there's so much more and so much more that we've learned uh in the in the in the ensuing decades since that Discovery and that's that's sort of the that's sort of the beginning of the book and the title the song of the cell this is one that runs through the book you keep coming back to this obviously you're a musician and this is language that comes to you but explain what you mean by that yeah so there are two songs I mean the title of this book came very late um in the Genesis of the book I mean I don't know how you title your books uh really but um I tend to title my books right at the end I I sort of come to them right at the end um and they're really two songs I think that the book refers to the first song and it's a it's a very important idea again is that again you know we come back to this idea of genes there's been so much written and talked about genes and genetics um importantly um but what's interesting is that the gene is a molecule is encoded in a molecule in DNA and it's lifeless without a cell it's the cell that brings it to life just like a musician brings a score to life um this analogy remains throughout the book um the cells in your neurons and the cells in in your immune system the cells that you know um run the various parts of your body they all inherit the same genome and yet like a musician or a symphony or to take an analogy from Indian music if you present the same rug to different uh individuals they'll sing out a completely different song even though the structural element of that song is the same and so that's the first idea that sort of that's the first song of the cell but then I was while I was reading this book I was inspired by um I was reading also um amitab gosh's book the nutmeg's curse and he has this lovely passage in it uh in which he describes um a very eminent botanist who goes into um the forest into the rainforest with a young man and the young man says you know I can name all the individual plants in this Forest but I can't tell the songs that run between them and so there's a second kind of song that this that sells I think sing to each other and that's a song that we don't know yet and I'll just give you one example um it's a very provocative example um the the English surgeons Steve Stephen Padgett um in the late 1800s ask the question if the liver and the spleen are two organs that sit next to each other so it's fascinating yeah yeah I love this example so if the liver and the spleen are two organs that sit next to each other and they're about the same size and this is about the same flow of blood through them why is it that the liver is one of the most frequent sites of cancer metastases while the spleen is almost never a cytos cancer metastases I mean as a Scotsman is this not related to Whiskey intake also or I wish it was but um the amazing thing is we don't know the answer to that question so there is two vessels immediately next to each other exactly geographically in the body same blood flow same sort of size totally different reactions totally different reactions so in some ways they're singing out different cells if you want to call it cancer cells in this case are seeing out completely different songs to those two different environments and so the second use of the song of the cell and you say that in the sense we beginning to understand the cell itself but you don't understand how cells relate to each other that's right and that's the second use of the word song I mean this is relationship yes this uh interrelationship between cells so we've been talking in a sense in in theoretical terms your book is full of individual case studies and real human beings and when we were talking just before coming on stage you mentioned a child in Bangalore do you want to just mention that very moving case you told me about it yes we were just talking about um and it's a case about the the uh the magic of numbers now I I don't believe in in sort of cosmic phenomena but sometimes sometimes I I take a step back and think about it twice um so we're in the middle of um and by saying we um a group of us um brought were the first to bring T-cell therapies to India as treatments for cancer not available in India before we um are running the first phase two B study of using weaponized T cells against cancer very uh weaponized T-cells do you want to just yeah let me describe that so you you take T cells are are very powerful immune cells they usually recognize viruses and bacteria in the body but you can genetically engineer them to recognize cancer and when you do that you can take cancers that have relapsed and become refractory to chemotherapy and then make you can cure patients right to the beginning of the book you talk about your friend who had a melanoma on his face that's right and and you said that the the cancer the body couldn't recognize the threat from that correct element but you can override that um invisibility cloak of a cancer um and uh using genetic engineering and and let the bodies see it for the first time and let the body see for the first time and and it's and the second example I given the book is Emily Whitehead in in her case of course that was exactly what's done she is now she was seven when she had that therapy um with relapse refractory uh acute lymphoblastic leukemia a disease that used to carry 100 mortality she just celebrated her 18th birthday um so a complete complete miraculous transformation um extraordinarily difficult and I often say it's like sending a rocket to the moon so about three years ago four years ago um a group of US currency said well this we should make this therapy available in India we can send Rockets to the Moon we can certainly make T cells and genetically engineer them so it was a mad project we set it off in Bangalore and the second patient or third patient I flew down from the United States to treat this patient so I go down to the room in Bangalore and I'm opening this this T Cell infusion I mean you know well I have to tell you you have to build an ecosystem that is so complex in order to deliver this therapy and it ends up in a little bag which looks like you know a bag of saline but nonetheless so I opened the step I I talked to this kid and I say what's your name and um he says his name and he says a name I'm not I'm not going to tell you his name but uh but I instantly recognize that it's a Bengali name we're sitting in Bangalore and I say to him well what what do your parents do and his mom is there and he says my father is a guard in a hotel and I said which hotel and he says well he's the security guard on this one particular floor of the one hotel that I happen to stay in every year in Kolkata okay so already I'm a little bit surprised so um two years pass and I'm back last week in Kolkata at the same Hotel and my flight lands I'm bleary-eyed and like it's 2 A.M in the morning and it's hard for me to say this without sort of falling apart a little bit but that the father is waiting there for me on your flow of your hotel on outside the door of my hotel 2 A.M in the morning he says I saw your name on the roster and I was waiting for you um and I said well what's with what's what's with the child and he says oh my child is alive his life has been saved he you know he's been living in kokola two years gone by so I said well bring him for breakfast tomorrow and so I met with the child I showed you the photographs of course I'm not gonna it's it's private information but I sometimes think to myself you know what you know as I said I don't have Cosmic beliefs there are 1.3 billion people in India of whom 0.1 percent are kids with relapsed refractory acute lymphoblastic leukemia of whom 0.1 percent are children of security guards of whom 0.1 percent are children of security guards who happen to be in the same floor of the place in Kolkata that I have to happen to go to of whom 0.1 percent are alive it's a story that will go down in some kind of Canon of History somewhere and someone else would write it one of the things I loved about the book is in the sense it's a completely enormous subject and your book in many ways is a sort of comprehensive guide to basic biology but it's also tiny dealing with these tiny tiny objects these tiny tiny cells talk to me about about one of the things do very well in the book is the history of science tell me about Robert Hook 17th century looking down a microscope what does he see so Robert hooke's a funny character he's a bizarre a bizarre character I love these uh these um eccentric um characters so Robert Hook um is the first person who coins the word cell um from the from the from the idea that they look like sort of jail cells he looks down a microscope Now hook is um he comes to Oxford again small world bizarre world um when I was at Oxford I lived in what used to be Hook's old house the house that I that hook did all his experiments in but anyway so hook um is a student at Oxford um and he begins to look down a microscope um what's astonishing about Hook is he is an incredible polymath he's an architect he is a writer he's a scientific illustrator he's a microscopy he's a biologist he lives through the Civil War and all this yes yes and he rebuilt much of the um much of London post the uh post the great fire he was one of the uh he was the main consultant or one of the main Consultants to to Christopher Wren um so hook um he's also a very unpleasant character by the way um he has a nasty fight with Newton um and the legend goes that um it's so nasty that when so hook becomes the president of the of the Royal Society and when the the offices of the Royal Society move um and the Newton becomes a new president Newton is so irritated with hook that there's one portrait of Robert Hook in history and and the legend goes or The Story Goes that Newton neglects to move it with him and it's forever lost we actually don't know what he looks like we don't know what Robert hooks looks like so anyway but Robert hooks does look down the microscope and he finds these um these uh these bodies inside bodies and that's the that's the origin of the cell and you also introduce this to this character Rudolph verchow yes uh mid 19th century who is the first to recognize that cancer is cells behaving in a rogue Manner and no matter how we Twist and Turn we shall eventually come back to the cells yeah so so cancer is one of the Rudolph workhouse very important contributions but rule of workhouse actually a very seminal person in this book in fact in the in in in the Prelude or the prologue to the book I talk about how I almost dedicated this book to Rudolph workout um he is um a a a man who Champions Liberty he's a you know he um he um he's a scientist but he's also a social reformer um he plays a very important role in um resisting the forces of anti-Semitism that are sweeping through Germany um in the um in the early 20th century but aside from that uh he's of course a very important scientist and the reason he anchors this book is because of of two things um two very Central ideas that he brings into the world of biology and perhaps into the world of Sciences and then interestingly they're just sort of Yin and Yang the the first idea is that um that all normal physiology you know people used to wonder about how how do human beings behave why are we made up the way we are made up how do muscles contract how do we you know this idea of human of the human body as a machine and workout makes the very radical claim that yes you can think about the human body as a machine but the sub parts of the machine are cells so in other words all physiology is a consequence of cellular physiology again this idea seems to be a little banal sometimes but but let me make it exciting to you right so think about think about its its applications where things might get really fuzzy think about for instance I I've spoken about this in a piece in the guardian think about mental illness right think about depression schizophrenia and if you think about mental illness depression being one of them and you think about virkau saying that all physiology is the consequence of cellular physiology and its Yang statement all pathology all illness is the consequence of cellular pathology that cells going wrong all of a sudden you start looking at the human body at illness in a completely different way yeah um you think about mental illness and information it's a cellular illness that can be psychosocial elements to it there could be whatever elements to it but all of a sudden it's somatized it becomes part of your body and there's an enormous power to that you can begin a whole line of Investigation um it's a it's a it can destigmatize that somatization can destigmatize many things you know you know you don't say slap yourself out of cancer and by that same logic you don't say slap yourself out of depression yeah exactly so so very important figure in this uh in this story on this same stage just before lunch we had Merlin sheldrake talking about fungi and again you had the sensation of of um individual cells doing their own thing but forming a hole and talking to each other and huge structures within the fungal World communicating with that when you think take that thought and and then relate to a human being I mean are we are we the ones in charge is are we running the show or are the cells running it and occasionally doing their own thing like cancer and we just have to you know go with it or not well you're asking kind of um I think several questions in that question I mean you're asking a question about autonomy agency and then moving on to questions about sanctions and and and um potentially about about Consciousness but but I mean what we know so far is that sells almost certainly have autonomy but it's pretty much no doubt about that they do their own thing they do their own thing yeah they're and you can imagine them as Nano machines in our body and US built out of those Nano machines um the good thing for the most part is that they they have a reason to cooperate with each other um otherwise you and I wouldn't exist we would float away and become individual cells and disintegrate and become individual bacteria fungi whatever it might be um so yes they have autonomy um to some extent they have agency in the sense that they do things um they do things for a purpose that's in Excel it's an extraordinary thought that's how cells have agency exactly and then you come to sort of um things that go beyond agency I mean are they conscious most biologists would say no um but interestingly groups of cells um when they cooperate and interact with each other for instance in your brain they have the emergent property of the of allowing things like Consciousness to exist so why is it in a cell's interest to go Rogue and do cancer well it's it's not it sense that I mean cancer is an evolutionary disease um and what's what's what's important about thinking about cancer killing they're killing their host what's important about cancer is that um you know if they killed hosts too quickly um if there were genes that killed hosts all all too quickly then in fact the disease would vanish what's important about cancer you know at a genetic or cellular level is that it parasitizes or Alters the very genes that are responsible for normal cellular Behavior that's the reason cancer exists in the first place so again to think of on a fungal parallel those those fungi that infect ants and make them go to the top of a piece of grass and then Sprout out to uh uh fruiting branch is that what cancer cells are doing that they're not killing us immediately but they're deliberately leading us on a dance well again I mean it's very difficult to use language which has intention in all of this right and one has to be very careful about using intentionality cancer doesn't have intentionality it is an evolutionary consequence of cellular behavior and it's an evolutionary consequence of cellular Behavior because cells are designed to survive cells are designed to reproduce cells are designed to grow cancer is parasitizing or using all of those properties those characteristics but it doesn't have intentionality it's not in it doesn't have any intentionality it's just an evolutionary consequence in the same way I would argue and maybe Martin can can come in on this but in the same way that you know fungi don't have intentionality in making an ant go up an ant show but it's an evolutionary consequence of their of the fact that if they do so the fungi that happened to do so happened to be naturally selected to survive and they spread yeah and it's very important to use this language and I I try many many times in my book to re-insert this language it's important to use this language not only in biology but also in medicine and in the social sciences in political sciences in history is to use is to get away sometimes from the language of agency and intentionality because as soon as you get into the language of intentionality then the victim is to blame right you caused your cancer you are responsible and and so forth and that gets into sort of the human the natural human tendency towards the intentional ideas it's just important to be careful about that and think about cancer as an evolutionary consequence of cellular Behavior but with your work you could modify yourself yes absolutely I mean we've learned lately to do this it wasn't possible 50 years ago or 100 years ago but um we've learned to do this and by by that my own laboratory has learned to do this several others have um but we've learned to do it slowly it's taken us a lot of time we've uh you know and and and met with um very appropriate degree of of skepticism and resistance but over the years over the last five or seven years we've shown pretty much that you can modify cells and even potentially stem cells you can modify them safely you can genetically modify them change their properties and use them therapeutically as we've done with that kid who's still living in in and playing Cricket the last I saw him in in Kolkata but and you can also weaponize you can weapon I mean that is one of the ways you can modify it you can recognize explain that that's such an interesting idea well so you know generally speaking again to return to the language The evolutionary language we were talking about one of the consequences one of the reasons that cancers can even grow in the first place is that they become they make themselves again in an evolutionary way to keep away from the language of intentionality they make themselves they adapt and survive and become invisible to the immune system um we know this because there are some they're very rare cases well documented in in literature of cancers that are unable to make themselves invisible to the immune system and they're spontaneously eliminated um in fact if you look in the human body if you look at autopsies um in humans um you'll find all sorts of abnormal cells cancer cells beginning to to happen um there's a study fascinating study if you look in the thyroid for instance um in autopsy series 80 to 90 percent of people um who have died of other causes natural causes will have what would seem like malignant cells in their thyroid 70 or some very large number will have malignant cells in their breast women will have they've died of other causes so somehow or the other the cancers have been born but they haven't taken root and we don't know exactly why but one of the reasons why there are several reasons but in one and understanding the self again understand the song of the cell exactly but one of the reasons is that there is a phenomenon of immune surveillance the immune system is not only looking for cells that have been infected by viruses but it's also looking for potentially malignant cells including cancer cells um so when you say you weaponize um a cell against cancer what you're really trying to do is to make the cancer visible again to the immune system where it had previously become invisible and you can use genetic very powerful tools of genetic engineering including modifications of genes to now make the to coin a word to make the previously invisible cancer the cloaked cancer revisible to the immune system that's what I mean by weaponization but some cells you find intractable there's a kind of mystery of some that just won't crack open that's right so we talked a little bit about um I'm sure this has happened to I mean there's everyone here some cells are intractable you cannot make them you cannot make at least yet um and I always say at least yet because 10 years ago who would have thought that we could do this for leukemias and Lymphoma lymphomas and myelomas but here we are you know 10 years from there so I say yet but you know some have become have proved to be extraordinarily intractable to making re-visible pancreatic cancer and some other cancers um some forms of breast cancer triple negative breast cancer for instance very very tough tough puzzles to crack um so far do you ever find yourself coming up against ethical issues such as you we're now talking about modifying cells is that changing what we are as human beings is this thing you mentioned I'm early on in your book about one of the uh genius scientists who's in jail because he's crossed ethical lines on on modifying uh humans absolutely so um in fact he just came out of jail uh last week but um uh dear friend uh no he's not a friend I was not involved in getting him into jail or getting him out of jail um I suggest we keep we keep out of jailing or non or or getting people out of people out of jail but anyway but um I think I mean as we sort of come towards the end of this conversation um perhaps I can propose um what I call an ethical triangle and I'm going to propose this because this ethical triangle as we modify genes modify cells modify humans becomes a triangle that's not really within the purview of medicine or biology but it becomes your problem because the stewardship of human beings is not my problem or your problem or it's it's a common it's a shared problem we are on the edge and again I'm going to repeat this very carefully we are on the edge of really questioning the level of stewardship we have of Our Own selves science is moving faster than you can possibly imagine um but in general in this world is a good thing in the Cure is it possible that we're impossible 10 years ago on one hand it's a good thing but raises I would I I would suggest a profoundly important ethical questions about how we maintain this stewardship and and who the stewards are and what their role is so um what I've proposed is what I call a triangle of stewardship um and I want people to think about this because this is not a scientific issue this is a it's a very fundamental issue about who we are and what we will become I mean the triangle of stewardship begins um the top edge of the triangle is is suffering so the um the North Star that I believe as a physician and scientist as a human being the North Star to which we should Peg any attempts to modify ourselves to create new humans is to emancipate suffering it's opposite of course being any form of augmentation any form of changing human beings to enhance qualities that we don't have or we might desire to have so there has to be an element of suffering involved that itself is a gray area so just to give you some examples I mean before IVF was was invented in vitro fertilization was invented lots of people thought that infertility was not a form of suffering and you could make that argument today for some people infertility is not a form of suffering but for some people it is so that itself is changing so we need to have a conversation a dynamic conversation over what suffering is but nonetheless let me Peg one of edge of the triangle to suffering especially to extraordinary suffering the second edge of the triangle is what I call the edge of scientific determinism which is to what extent are we sure that we can perform these changes safely um to what extent are we sure that these changes will indeed affect the the the the correct um modification and not create some kind of you know if you want to use literature some kind of frankenstinian moment in in in in human history um that's that's that's somewhat of a scientific challenge the third edge of this triangle I think is is the most is is the one that we have the most stewardship of and that's the humanistic Edge um so medical scientific and and the humanistic Edge and that has to do with um informed consent um understanding um uh lack of so Freedom Choice Liberties lack of State mandates lack of coercion and a full and deep understanding of what it means to to to enter the sphere now when we operate within the realm of this ethical triangle which I've now proposed in two books I think we remain in a relatively safe area it's when we depart from this triangle um when we depart from the north star of suffering when we depart from informed consent um uh when we depart from what is known and Unknown about about the scientific challenges that's when we run into problems so that this is a literary Festival one of the things leaving aside the science that astonishes me about these books are there's all three of these extraordinary books is is how you construct extraordinary readable accessible books from very intractable material I sometimes worry about how to make 18th century politics uh presentable to people that don't know it but this is much much more complex stuff and much more in excessive at least it's not yeah um so talk about your process how do you start putting these books together a lot of the stuff begins with New Yorker articles it seems to be yes so um The New Yorker is a great um sort of starting place for me because I haven't incredible editors incredible editors there but um you know William I mean I I know you know this as a non-fiction writer I mean a lot of writing and this is true for all writing including fiction begins with questions that are not present in the book um questions about the question that I ask myself is what's the mood of this book going to be like and that's a very dreamy question it's a question that lives in sort of um things that you cannot Arctic it's in articulate in an article question what's the structure of this book going to be like what's it going to look like as a skeleton um this book was particularly hard to write because the first book in which um you know there's an old old saying in both fiction and non-fiction writing is make chronology your friend make time your friend because it'll it'll tell you how to write a book you begin at the beginning you end at the end um so I do it that's right this book is particularly hard to write because this is not a chronological book this in fact if you think about it structurally if you think about it in terms of the structure of this book is a book in which you know it's a series of linked short stories um so I tried very hard to sort of straight jacket this book into chronology but it wouldn't work and so this book is a link it's a set of linked short stories every chapter is a cell it takes on a cell and becomes the full short story of the cell there is the you know the the cells in your brain which is the chapter is called the contemplating and how do you get these cells to relate to each other and then the last few chapters are about sort of knitting it all together um the epilogue which is a long epilogue but five chapters of epilogue are about knitting these together and trying to figure out the song of the cell ladies and gentlemen we have five more minutes I'm going to ask you a question you've got a choice would you like to ask questions or would you like Siddharth to read an extraordinarily beautiful passage from his books those that would like to ask questions put their hands up those that would like a reading put their hand up the reading wins okay all right um well so I mean part of this part of this is also you know my books are unusual I think to write for me um because I string together um both Memoir um deep history philosophy often Indian philosophy sometimes music um poetry even some mythology and mythology exactly um and I I sort of it uh you know um in Kolkata I said you know bengalis have this dish um called chachori um which is uh notoriously difficult to make because it's a melange um so so these books you can think about my attempts to make a literate literary version of this so this is from the Memoir portion of the book um which I'm going to read it's going to be a four minute reading so this is me um back at Oxford when I'm sort of beginning to learn about cells and and learn about um about what happens Alan Townsend's lab sat atop a steep hill at The Institute for molecular medicine at the edge of Oxford University in the fall of 93 when I arrived at Oxford to study it with Alan as a graduate student in Immunology the mysteries of T-cell function were still being deciphered The Institute was a modernist steel and glass building the security guard at the front desk a woman with a thick Welsh accent which you could probably do checked IDs before letting you in without the right card she would refuse to let you enter two years passed with me fumbling through my pocket for the card until I finally got the courage to confront her I had been there every day for 24 straight months didn't she recognize me by my face she looked at me stonly I'm just doing my job her job I suppose was to detect Intruders as if I might well have been James Bond who'd driven up the hill in an Aston Martin on a top secret mission to feed my T-cell cultures at night in retrospect I've grown to appreciate her diligence she had internalized immunity I'm going to skip forward a little bit an Italian postdoc Vincenzo chirundulo was my direct mentor Enzo was short garrulous and effervescent and yet during my first weeks in the lab he ignored me entirely he rushed around the lab navigating his way past me as if I was some irritating piece of lab equipment that someone had offloaded in the wrong place he was finishing a research paper and teaching a freshly arrived graduate student the details of Immunology seemed hardly worth his time one aspect of Enzo's project involved manufacturing viruses to infect Mouse in human cells to expand the virus that is to make more viral particles so that he could do this experiment you had to infect a layer of cells and then you extracted the virus by placing the whole culture in a tube and freezing and throwing it exactly three times it was a procedure that acquired precision and patience without freeze throwing you couldn't release enough but if you overdid the process you might kill the virus entirely in the entire experiment would go to waste one morning soon after I arrived I found Enzo fussing over one such tube a research technician also Italian had made a prep but she had left for a vacation Enzo had no idea whether the virus had been extracted or whether the tube had been left without the process it was a tense moment a low viral count and the whole experiment critical to the paper would go down the drain he cussed under his breath in Italian Cavallo by the way I was in Kolkata and someone came and asked me well what other cuss words do you know in Italian and I told him several others anyway I asked Enzo if I could look at the tube and he handed it to me and on its bottom in barely visible ink I saw that the technician had scribbled the letters c s c s c s what's the word for freeze in Italian I asked him conjulari Enzo replied and for thought so that's what the technician had written I I thought freeze thaw freeze Thor freeze thought except in a kind of Morse code cs cscs three times each Enzo regarded me sharply perhaps I wasn't a waste of time after all he finished his experiment and asked me if I wanted a coffee and he made two cups something had thought between us we'll move a little bit ahead in early 2019 I learned that Enzo had been diagnosed with Advanced lung cancer the news of his illness numbed me with shock I couldn't bring myself to call him for days a weak past perhaps too until I finally dialed his number from New York he picked up immediately he was matter of fact about his condition perhaps those T cells whose inner Mysteries he had spent his life uncovering would find a way to fight his cancer as Alan Townsend my mentor wrote about Enzo in the in a journal one hears the phrase fight with cancer but this description is a pale shadow of the intense personal grinding immunological battle he waged with the rebellious cells that challenged him he did this unperturbed never missing a seminar always available to students and colleagues it was a demonstration of supreme courage in 2020 a few weeks before I was about to visit Oxford to give a talk I found out that Enzo had died I canceled my trip that evening I sat in the lab silently recalling my mentor my friend holding back the memories until they had hardened I felt dazed and then desiccated congealed in Gloom it was only then hours later that the grief burst in me in wave upon liquid wave Enzo it's conjulari thank you ladies and gentlemen will be signing books in the tent afterwards I highly recommend you go by his book all three of them would like to thank Siddharth Mukherjee and William darling Paul for this wonderful enlightening session a huge round of applause for Siddharth Mukherjee and William Tower Temple please grab your copies from Full Circle he'll be available for signing books at the book signing decks on my right hand side please there it is [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 4fjwj92UNn4 (https://youtu.be/4fjwj92UNn4) ===

- Good afternoon and welcome. I'm Carol Christ. I'm the Chancellor of Berkeley and it's a delight to welcome you to this event this afternoon. You're here to hear a
conversation which has the title The Future of Humans, Gene Editing and the Unthinkable
Power to Control Evolution. That title, to me, recalled
the 200th anniversary of the publication of Mary
Shelley's Frankenstein in 1818. Frankenstein is the prototypical
text of the human ability to create new life, and it's
really a prescient text, particularly at the moment
when scientists have the power to manipulate the blueprint of life. This is a bold topic, and
a perfect way to kick off Berkeley's sesquicentennial, which we're celebrating with
the official motto Fiat Lux, or Let There Be Light. This motto inscribed
in the university seal and on the five-pointed
star that adorns Sather Gate reminds us that it's our
duty to create new knowledge and bring it to light, to illuminate solutions for
the world's greatest problems, and find solutions for
bettering the human condition. As we celebrate 150 years
of light at Berkeley, and we anticipate 150 years
of light in the future, the discovery of CRISPR
by Jennifer Doudna, and the global impact that this will have comes immediately to mind. Few breakthroughs in science have had the kind of sweeping, immediate
impact that CRISPR has, bringing monumental change to the way scientists approach key questions of life, and holding unlimited
promise for the future. It's exhilarating to imagine
the transformations we'll see as the result of this
technology in the coming years. Our special guest Dr.
Mukherjee is an oncologist at Columbia University
and Pulitzer Prize winner for his book, The Emperor of All Maladies, A Biography of Cancer. His most recent book The
Gene and Intimate History chronicles the history of the gene and what becomes of humanity when we can read and edit
our own genetic information. A Rhodes scholar, he has earned degrees from Stanford University,
the University of Oxford, and Harvard Medical School. Dr. Jennifer Doudna has been a member of the Berkeley faculty since 2002, and is the founding executive director of the Innovative Genomics Institute, a joint endeavor of UC Berkeley and UCSF, and I'd like particularly to welcome UCSF's Chancellor Sam
Hawgood to this program. (audience applauds) Since her days as a
graduate student and postdoc at Harvard and the University of Colorado, Jennifer has always been
interested in structural biology and the biochemistry of RNA. In 2012, she and her colleague
Emmanuelle Charpentier discovered CRISPR, and
that's a game changer. It holds potential to
cure genetic diseases, overcome climate change, and
address global food security, among many other
transformational applications. Dr. Doudna's contributions,
her light, are significant and worthy of celebration. Please welcome Jennifer
Doudna and Dr. Mukherjee. (audience applauds) - Well, thank you, Chancellor Christ, for that very warm introduction, and thank you to all of
you for coming today. We're really looking forward
to this conversation. We will talk for about 45 minutes and then we'd like to open
up the floor to questions to answer thoughts and ideas and give you a chance
to share those with us. I'd like to start off by pointing out that humanity has always had
a desire for improvement. Cars, improved transportation. Penicillin, improved health. The internet improved the
spread of information, or misinformation, in some cases. Now it appears that we're
entering a new stage of improvement, artificial intelligence, to improve efficiency. Self-driving cars to improve safety, and the improvement of our own bodies. So we have to truly ask
ourselves, what are we improving? Do we need improving? And even, what is improvement? So gene editing technologies
and cancer therapies are forcing us to look at these questions and also to look at ourselves. Cancer, for example, is a natural
and common cause of death. Genetic diseases are too numerous to count and a natural result of our being human. A new wave of biomedical
advances are giving us the ability to push back cancer
and erase genetic diseases, but at what cost? So I'd like to start this
conversation by asking you, Dr. Mukherjee, are we transitioning from natural to unnatural, or is this just the next
step in human evolution? - So, again, I think the
question of what natural and unnatural is or are has
been really brought about in the last decade or so
in a way with an urgency that really didn't exist before. Oscar Wilde famously said, "Being natural is sometimes just a pose." And the question is, how are we posing? What pose are we on? I do think that the
capacity to change something as elemental as our own DNA,
even if it's in somatic cells, certainly in stem cells and
certainly in embryonic cells, really raises the question
about what we're doing with our own evolution. These are unprecedented technologies because they allow us to hold
the horns of our own destiny in some ways, even though
we understand destiny is more than DNA, but a powerful element
of destiny is in DNA. You gave the example of
cancer and genetic diseases. So really the question of what is natural and what is unnatural,
the boundaries, I think, have been redrawn or
are being redrawn today. My own thoughts about this, really, are the thoughts of a physician. That's my brain. I have a physician's brain. And that is that as we do this, as we enter this arena
of new technologies, it seems to me that there are, and I talk a little bit
about this in The Gene, that there are a triangle of ideas, which we should keep in focus. The first one is when we intervene, when we're intervening on human genetics, is there extraordinary suffering involved? You and I can then open
up a debate saying, well, what is extraordinary suffering? But at least there's a sense, there's a hard line that we draw and say that when we move forward that that remains a
certain line in the sand, that we invade on what is
natural versus unnatural only when we think that there's extraordinary
suffering involved. In a second I'll tell
you that there are people who don't buy this argument. We'll talk about that in a second, but that's one line of the triangle. The second line of the triangle
is loosely I've called it, in the book, I've called it penetrance. The idea is, we can call it certainty, that when we make genetic changes, when we do tamper with evolution, particularly with our own evolution, that we have a strong degree of certainty that there's a powerful relationship between the gene and the phenotype, or the ultimate manifestation
that's involved. So things that we're uncertain about, things that have effects
that we don't understand, cascading effects, pleiotropic effects, we probably should avoid since, obviously, we don't want to intervene on things that we cannot ultimately control. And the third line of the triangle is, I've called it, justifiable choice. People have used different words for it, and that is that when we intervene between what is unnatural
and what is natural, that the intervention
bears some justification, that we can justify it, and that it's not done by state mandate, that individual choice is involved. People are able to do it or
not able as they should choose. Now, it doesn't take an
extraordinary complicated bit of thinking to realize that each of these is fuzzy territory. Who defines extraordinary suffering? Who mandates choice? If our cultures push us towards
manipulating our children, is that really a choice? Even if it's a passive choice, does it really become a choice? - [Jennifer] And, by the
way, different cultures might make different choices. - For instance, exactly, and you know better than anyone else, the rules that apply for
interventions on embryos in China are not the rules that
apply for intervention in the United States and other cultures. So I fully understand this
is complicated territory, but as we move forward, if
we don't draw some stakes, this is going to become, I think, even more complicated than it is. So it is absolutely true
that we're passing a boundary between the natural and the unnatural. Those terms were never easily defined, never easily definable, but the technologies are
forcing us to define them. And my argument is that we should use a kind of more sympathetic
way, humanistic way, to try to breach those boundaries. What do you think? In fact, some of these
recommendations have been made. You've been on panels that
made these recommendations for intervention with human embryos. What are your thoughts about
the breaching of the natural? - Well, while you were
talking, I was thinking that we had a meeting in
2015 in the Napa Valley that was the first
meeting that was organized by the Innovative Genomics
Institute and UCSF to think about the ethical
and societal implications of human genome editing. And there was a fairly
small group of people. We had two of the scientists
who'd been involved in the 1970s discussions in Asilomar about the ethics of molecular cloning, Paul Berg and David Baltimore. And even in that group of scientists, there was a very active
discussion around the table, heated at times. People really disagreeing
and debating about, in particular, human embryo editing, so making changes that
would become inherited in future generations, and what would be the
implications of that. And at one point, somebody
leaned across the table and said, wait a minute. There might come a moment
when we will consider it unethical not to do that,
at least for certain kinds. And it's like you're saying, if there's severe suffering
due to genetic disease, this might, in the future, be something that we would
societally agree should proceed. You know it's interesting for me, because I have found that my own views have been evolving over time. - [Dr. Mukherjee] Yes,
you've written about this. So tell us about the evolution. - Yeah, I guess I started
off, when I first started thinking about the
implications of gene editing back in sort of the
early days of this work, which was actually only
a few years ago now, and started thinking about this. I felt initially very
opposed to using gene editing in embryos, not necessarily forever, but I certainly felt
that the time wasn't now to proceed to do that. And why did I think that? Well, it seemed to me,
it seemed unnatural. It seemed something that
you were sort of messing with something that maybe
you shouldn't mess with, and as a scientist, I also
appreciate that in many cases, a gene, and you know this
better than anyone probably, but a gene that we think
has a certain function might only play that role
in a particular context of other genes. So how can we ever really
be sure that something we're altering might not
have unintended consequences? And that would have consequences
in not only a person, but all of their kids,
and their kids' kids, and it seemed kind of a profound thing. But what's happened over
the last few years for me, and for those of you that don't know me, so I'm a biochemist and I've always done very
fundamental research. So unlike you, Sid, I've
always just been working on molecules rather
than patients or people. But what's happened
over the last few years is I've been coming into
increasing contact with people that have genetic disease, either themselves or in their families. I recently got an email, and this is very typical
for me these days, but I got an email from
a woman who explained that her beautiful, young
boy has a genetic disease that had just been diagnosed, and she sent me a picture
of this little baby in his little carrier. He's cute, and it just broke my heart. It really broke my heart and
I guess I just found myself recognizing that when
there is severe suffering and we have an opportunity to change that, it may be worth doing. - Well, you know, one line
that philosophers have tried to draw is between
emancipation and enhancement, and they have tried to draw a strong line. Of course, in real practice,
once you practice medicine, those lines also become fuzzy. What is emancipation for one person can be enhancement for the other. The extremes are quite obvious. It's very easy to think about extremes. Manipulating genes for cosmetic purposes seems very obviously far outside the realm of what we want to do, but on the other hand,
there are certainly examples where the conflicts are more real. The question that occurs to me, I'm gonna frame the question, and then maybe subdivide it a little bit. One question that occurred to me while I was thinking about
this is we're always, in medicine, straddling the line between treating and curing. But now we are beginning
to think about altering DNA as a mechanism or a
means to treat and cure. Is that reasonable? And maybe you can speak
about it in three categories, and divide it up as you wish, but it seems to me that there
are three broad categories. Number one is editing
genes of other organisms, very widely speaking,
so all other organisms. That's a little bit like saying humans and all other organisms, but really, imagine the
question of editing genes in other organisms, in
crops and plants and pests. The second is somatic gene editing, so particularly things
like, I'm a transplanter, so in stem cells, blood stem cells, and other kinds of stem cells. And the third, of course, is gene editing in either sperm or eggs or embryos. So tell us about what you
think the prospects are in these three categories,
and is it reasonable? What is reasonable and what's unreasonable maybe in the three categories? Or pick one of them which
is most provocative for you. - Well, I think you're
touching on an important point, and that is that gene
editing is used now widely sort of across the biosphere,
I guess you could say. It's really being used in plants, animals. It's enhancing the pace of research. It's opening up organisms
for study that in the past really could not be investigated
at the genetic level. So it's a very exciting
time, really, as a biologist, I think, to be living in the midst of this transformational
opportunity with new techologies. And it's not just gene editing. It's other things, too, of
course, that are converging to give us ways that we
can manipulate organisms that were unthinkable in the recent past. So just having the ability
to sequence the entire genome and all the DNA in the cell of an organism and start understanding
what that code means, how it dictates what an organism
becomes is really profound. So just to quickly touch
on those three areas. So if we think about using
gene editing in organisms other than humans, clearly
this is going to have a big impact on humanity, right? Because it'll allow us to
change plants, for example, to be more nutritious, or
to grow in environments where they otherwise wouldn't thrive. - [Dr. Mukherjee] Mosquitoes. - Get rid of mosquitoes, maybe. Maybe, or at least control
spread of disease by insects. In terms of editing what you
referred to as somatic cells, and just so that everyone's
on the same page with that, that term just means
that we're editing cells that are not germline cells, meaning they're not cells that
are eggs or sperm or embryos. So they don't cause heritable changes in future generations of organisms, but this could still
be incredibly impactful for the clinical
application of gene editing, and the type of research
that you do, for example, being able to edit,
let's say, immune cells so that they're more
effective at targeting cancer would be amazing if we can do that. Editing blood cells so
they no longer carry the disease-causing gene
for sickle cell anemia would be incredible. And there's many, many
other examples like that. Then the third category is the one that is more kind of ethically
fraught, or could be, which is, should it be okay or is it okay to make changes in the germline of humans. Believe me, scientists
are already doing this in the germlines of
other kinds of organisms quite routinely, but in humans, not yet. And should we go there? And I personally think
that it's going to happen and it's partly gonna
happen because of the fact that different cultures view
this question differently, and I think we're seeing
already in the scientific world that the pace of research, at
least, on human embryo editing is proceeding differently
in different countries. - So, just a quick
follow-up on that question, and then we can move on. How long 'til the first transgenic human? - Um, oh dear, I'm on the spot here. (audience laughs) I don't know, is the short answer. I think that, again, so
that everyone out there sort of understands what's happening. I mean, we saw, just
in the last six months, there have been two very
prominent publications in scientific journals from
highly respected research labs, one here in the United States, and one in the United
Kingdom, who both showed that you could use gene
editing in viable human embryos to change, to alter the genome, to make a very precise change to a particular gene in these embryos. - [Dr. Mukherjee] There's
been some question about-- - There's been questions about the details of how that's working, but I think the overarching
thing that I take from that is that this research is proceeding, and I think the pace will accelerate. I recently heard from a colleague in China who is coming to visit me
here at Berkeley next week who wants to give me an
update on his own research in human embryos. So it's moving forward. I can't tell you when I
think it'll be actually used to create a CRISPR baby, for example, but I think we're seeing
steady progression in that direction. - I mean, just to give you one example, I work with blood stem
cells and immune cells. That's mostly why I'm a
biologist, leukemia doctor. As of last week, we were just
talking about this earlier on, as of last week, in cord blood stem cells, we are getting gene editing successfully in 90% of the stem cells. In fact, we've gotten to a
place where we're wondering if we should even sort these cells because the efficiency of sorting is getting to the efficiency of editing. So basically I suspect
that the blood system is open for business. The entire blood system
is open for business. There's many, many questions,
off target effects, whether we will get weird
leukemias that arise because we've made an
edit in the wrong place, but essentially speaking, it's staggering. We couldn't do this six months ago. - So this is a very important point. In the field of this technology and all the things that
are being done with it are moving forward incredibly quickly. And one of the things
that's been on my mind is how do we explain
to people that are not down in the weeds doing the
work, working in the clinic or working in the laboratory? How do we explain what's happening? Because I think we appreciate
that this is ultimately going to affect everyone's life, and I think that one of the ways that people learn about science, they learn about technology,
is actually through the media, through Hollywood,
through books, of course, and through fiction and nonfiction, but they start to
understand what's happening. We're seeing this, of course,
with artificial intelligence has been all over the media lately, and self-driving cars and things, and a little bit genome
editing is creeping in there. So I wanted to ask you what you think Hollywood has done well and
what have they done poorly? And how do we work with people
that like to tell stories and they do that for a
business and professionally, and work with them to get science right? - Well, it's always a struggle. One of the strangest
experiences of my life was being a small consultant on Logan. (audience laughs) It's true. If you were to sit
through the final credits, I have a small, and
that's because, I mean, I think I'm speaking correctly. I barely enter particularly
the Hollywood world. But I was approached by a
friend of a friend of a friend who showed me the script, and I said, well, you know the script is really fundamentally
about a dystopic vision of what happens when human
beings start reaching for certain kinds of perfection. It pushes towards the enhancement debate away from the emancipation debate. And my only thought about it was I thought it's not dystopic enough. (Jennifer laughs) There's a moment in that film, which actually I watched
a very early version of, when you suddenly realize, there's a moment in which the characters are walking through a
corn field or something, and you suddenly realize that
the entirety of the world has now been transformed for human benefit because the corn is
growing 10 times as high. I think that was my input in the film. I said make it more dystopic. But just to remind ourselves that I think the media has
a big responsibility here. I think, again, it would
be very helpful for us from the media to get a
road map of what the pulse of public thinking about this is. Because the media reflects
back to a large extent what a much larger public
view of all of this is. That would be what's helpful. Not to set guidelines, not to tell us about the science often, but to tell us, and that's what I think is
important about the films. The film may get the science wrong. They may get it too far
off, et cetera, et cetera, but what they often get
right is they get the pulse of what people's fears are. What are they afraid of the most? What are the concerns? - [Jennifer] Or what
are they excited about? - What are they excited about? A film like, I'm just thinking
off the top of my head, a film like Lorenzo's
Oil is a great example. We could disagree about the science. We know that it's very complicated. People had disagreements, agreements, but what it got right very
much was the obsessive hunting of a parent for a cure for their child. That's what it gets very right. And as long as the pulse
is right, it reminds us, it keeps us, I think, as
physicians, as scientists, honest about what we're writing about. What are the concerns? Sure, we're talking about
powerful technologies. Who's gonna draw the limits? How are we going to move forward? And I think that's what ultimately helps. In some ways, Hollywood gets it right when its moral compass is right, when it sets our moral compass right. Hollywood gets it wrong
when it tries to tell us about science, I suppose, in a way that doesn't make any realistic sense. - So for me, I thought
the movie The Martian was a great film that
really kind of captured the excitement of an adventure and the challenges that
one might imagine happening if you tried to actually survive on Mars. And it's sort of just beyond
where we think we are right now in terms of technologies, but I noticed that it captured
a lot of people's attention and imagination. I have a teenage son and just hearing his chatting
about this with his friends. You could just kind of sense this buzz. So I think films like that are great because they actually make
people think about science. They think about the opportunities. If we develop technologies,
that might allow us to explore our solar system in ways that we haven't been able to. - [Dr. Mukherjee] Well,
sometime in the next few years, there's gonna be a fictionalized version of a Jennifer Doudna movie. (audience laughs) - Oh dear. Horrifying thought. - What would you like to
ensure is in that film? - Is in or is not in? (laughs) - Tell us both, tell us both. Make it exciting. - Again, I guess, to me, I
like it when films capture the passion that somebody
has for work they're doing. The struggles. Students now will often ask me, I feel almost a little bit embarrassed because I think they think
that I've reached some pedestal or something and I don't think
of myself that way at all. I think of myself growing up in this little rural town in Hawaii and struggling through
general chemistry in college and trying to figure out,
can I really be a scientist? I think a movie to be true,
if it wants to be true, and maybe it doesn't, but if it really wanted
to capture anything that's true about me, it would
have to show those struggles. And it would have to show, again, it's back to the human spirit. All of us, I think, we have
passions for certain things and that's one of the
things you learn in college is you kind of learn about yourself and what you find exciting. For me, it was about
realizing I was just a person that loved to think about molecules. I loved to think about how life works at the level of molecules. But it hasn't been a straight path at all and I would definitely want
a story to capture that. - A lot has been written
about the initial series of conversations that you had with Emmanuelle at the start of this. Actually, I've never read
about the kind of moment. Was there a moment when
things crystallized for you? - Well, I think there
have been a few of those. When I think back on--
- Pick one. - Pick one, okay. (audience laughs) Well, probably I should
pick the first one, then, which is really when I met her and we met at a meeting in 2011. It was a meeting I almost didn't go to because it was a meeting
for microbiologists, which is certainly not me, and I was busy and I was
teaching here at Berkeley and I was juggling all the
usual things that we juggle. I almost canceled it,
but then I decided to go, and it's good that I did
because that's where I met Emmanuelle Charpentier, and
she is a microbiologist, so she had a legitimate
reason to be there. When we met at this meeting, we met there because we were both
working on what at the time was a very obscure area of biology, namely understanding how
bacteria fight viral infection using a system called CRISPR. It's an adaptive immune
system in bacteria. So we were both giving
talks at this little session at this meeting and afterwards
we went out to lunch, and we started chatting and
we started walking around the old cobblestone streets
of old San Juan, Puerto Rico, and in that conversation, we talked about starting a collaboration to
work together to figure out the function of one
protein, just one protein, that's part of this immune
system, a protein called Cas9. It was a project that really
brought together expertise from her lab as a microbiologist
and my lab as a biochemist, and I do remember feeling
a real sense of the hairs on my neck standing up
because I could sense that there was something very
exciting about this project. In some ways, the rest of
it kind of flows from that. - So I can tell you my
story about that story is that I heard about, from
all people in the world, I heard about your early
results from Paul Berg. I went to Stanford for another visit. I have collaborators there. I trained with Paul, and
Paul, as you very much know, was among the many people
who discovered how to clone, make recombinant DNA,
stitch two pieces of DNA from two foreign organisms together, and was instrumental in
the Asilomar meeting, which was an important
milestone in all of this. Once in a while, since
becoming a physician and a scientist myself,
I'd go back to Stanford, and I would always have lunch with Paul. And these were very precious to me. He's now 90 years old. This was about when he
was 87 or something, and he told me, you know,
I just heard a seminar from someone and she talked
about an enzyme that allows you to modify DNA in a site-specific manner. And I thought, my God, the
old man has finally lost it. (audience laughs) I said, wow. Because it was a little unfathomable. People had been thinking
about this for a long time and it was unfathomable and, of course, the fact
that it was borrowed back from (mumbles). Just to move the conversation along, flipping over the question of Hollywood is a very pertinent
political question today, which is, we are living in times where the amount of distrust
for science is phenomenal and I have to tell people constantly that science is not fake news, that there's a strong line
between one and the other. Evolution is not fake news. Bacterial evolution is not fake news. So what do we do about this moment? Do we have a responsibility? We have really an unprecedented
moment in human history, in American history, a country
that grew to some extent politically out of
scientists and engineers. I'm an immigrant, so the
history of this country is a country that grew out of
the aspirations of humanists, scientists, and engineers. What do we do about this today? What are you doing, Jennifer? How does the world look to you? - I'm very concerned about this. I think it's a big challenge. I think we have to start by encouraging scientists
everywhere to get out of the lab at some level and engage in conversation. We have to talk about science. We need to bring science
back into the discussions that we have at cocktail
parties and things like that. I think that books like
your books are doing a lot. I think you're very
good at telling stories that are very human and that
people can identify with, so they don't necessarily think about you, I mean, hopefully they think
about you as a scientist, but they read the book because
it's really interesting. It's really engaging, right? It's not a textbook. It's something that is very human. I think the more that we can do that and use language to
describe scientific ideas that isn't filled with acronyms and doesn't sound like a foreign language, but we try to really just explain ideas. Because I think, in the
end, a lot of the ideas that we're having and thinking about are not really complicated. They're not. It's just maybe the details are, but I think the concepts
and ideas are not, and this is something that
we just have to work at more than I think we have
certainly in my lifetime as a professional scientist. How would you answer that? - I can't agree more. I think what I worry most about is that there's a dispiriting
quality for young students, for my students. There's a dispiriting
quality in all of this, and the dispiriting
quality lasts generations. It carries through. And I think this is an especial time. I'm not gonna say it's not
go hug a scientist day, but I think there's an especial time when we need to remind
ourselves that the contributions of science to this debate. I mean, for instance,
look at climate change. Before we have arguments and
conversations, we need data. Data comes from laboratories, from scientists who've
spent time gathering it. We need to respect that idea that we can't enter these
debates without data. So just be careful, be
cognizant of the fact that the scientists in
your life around you are dispirited and try to encourage them. It might be philanthrophically,
it might not be. It might be personally,
but it's a tough time for the graduate students
and the postdocs in my lab. I don't know if you're
feeling that as well. - So has your work and
especially maybe your writing, has that led you to have
conversations and interactions with new groups of people
that have sort of taken you in new directions? - Well, certainly politically, yes. As you know, my first book
on the the history of cancer was well read, but then Ken Burns made
a documentary out of it. The Gene is also going to be made into a documentary by Ken Burns. You should probably not tweet that until it's formally announced. (audience laughs) - [Jennifer] No tweeting. - It'll be announced in a week or two. But we're in the middle of filming. In fact, we filmed you, Jennifer. And so I think that the transition
into serious documentary, these are three hours, or
in the case of Emperor, six hour documentaries, allowed us to reach a group of people. I think one of the most
interesting conversations I've had recently is
with people who work on education for children. How do you take textbooks, which are becoming more and
more outdated in some ways, how do you convert that
into education for children? How do you make it possible to put that on the web to some extent, but supplement that with
books that are more readable? And that's an issue that
I'm very interested in. How do you make a kind of
simultaneous storytelling as well as didactic education
for AP, for instance, which is much more accessible, and doesn't remain boring or textbook? - I think kids are actually
a great way in, too. I had this great experience
a couple of years ago. My son was in seventh grade at the time and he was just taking a class. They were teaching the kids about DNA and so the teacher
asked me if I would come and talk to the kids a
little bit about my work. So I went to the school
and we did it after school, so it was just voluntary. We just asked the kids
who would like to do it and my first shock was
I walked into this room thinking there might be two, three kids. There were 20 kids there,
and 15 of them were girls. It was cool, yeah. The other thing was, so I
thought, how am I gonna get these 12 year olds
interested in what I do? So I thought, well, I'll
take this 3D printed model that I have of the Cas9 protein. It was actually made by Jacob Corn, who's here in the audience, here at the Innovative Genomics Institute. It's printed on a 3D printer, but it's based on an actual
crystallographic structure of the Cas9 protein, which is the scissors that cuts the DNA and the
RNA molecule that programs it to find and cut a
particular sequence of DNA. That's what makes it a powerful tool, and then the DNA itself getting cut. So I took this model. It's about this big. It's about the size of a football or so. I took it in. The model was designed
by Jacob very nicely so that it can be pulled apart. You can actually pull the DNA out. - [Dr. Mukherjee] You
should've brought it. - You can see where the DNA got cut. I should have brought
it, would've been fun. But I took it to the kids and I thought, well, I won't
actually take it apart. I won't show them actually
how the DNA gets cut 'cause that might just be
too complicated for the kids. So I had this model, but
it's brightly colored and it looks kinda cool. So the kids said, well,
can you pass it around? So I started passing this thing around and I was describing it to them. Within five seconds, of
course, they had pulled, they're like, oh, cool, the DNA comes out. Hey, we can pop this piece off. You know, they were dissembling it and they were looking at it
and they were figuring it out, and they were asking tons of questions. Actually, they asked a number of really interesting ethical questions. I think one of the kids
at that little meeting asked me about the ethics, not
really using that language, but asked me, what does this
mean for changing embryos, humans, and doesn't that
mean that you could decide to make somebody taller or smarter or wow? Just kind of grappling. You could see the thought process going. So I really think that the more that we can reach out to kids because kids are natural scientists. They love questions. And the more that we can do
that and get them engaged, they don't think about science as a thing. It's something that's interesting that's entered their world. - [Dr. Mukherjee] Are we
getting ready for questions? - We want to turn it over to
questions from the audience, but before we do that, I just
want to cover one more thing with you, Sid, and that
is, I would love to hear the motivation that you had
for writing your first book. Because I think, for me,
The Emperor of All Maladies, your first book about cancer,
it really is a profound work. It's very, in some ways, very depressing, but it's also incredibly
interesting to look at the history of how humans have grappled with this really intractable disease. I'd love to hear what
motivated you to do it, what was most surprising
to you about that process, and was it fun? Was it hard? Tell us about that. - So I had never thought
I would write a book. I was trained as a physician scientist, very nose to the ground, and The Emperor of All
Maladies really grew out of a patient's question, and
the patient's question was, she was in the middle of
chemotherapy for sarcoma, and she said, why are we doing
this and where are we going? And it seemed to me just astonishing that here was this disease
that has occupied our culture. Cancer has become more than a disease. It is a metaphor. It is an allegory. People use it to describe states of mind. Very few illnesses in
human history have ascended to this kind of space in human culture. And yet we had no real history, we had no book about it in the same sense. People had written about
cancer in a thousand ways. There were a million textbooks on it. So that was really the
beginning of that book. I started as a fellow and during the day, I
would be in the clinic and in the evenings, I would write. It was just a journal to start with and it grew and grew and grew, and at some point of time, I decided that I would
show it to a publisher. Someone said to me, you know
there are gonna be two readers for that book, your mother and you? (audience laughs) 600 pages on cancer. When it was first delivered, someone said it was
like a phone directory, from in the days when there
used to be phone directories, a phone directory from hell. (audience laughs) it had a black cover. In the back, in white, it
had cancer written on it, and it was 1,800 pages long. It had cut down to 600 pages. So that's how I started. That was my first book. - Fascinating, yeah. (laughs) Sounds hard, working in
the clinic during the day and writing at night. Wow, I'm amazed that you could do that. And your second book? So, well received as well. Many people have read The
Gene that I've run into just sort of randomly. But also you encountered some
criticisms about the book. Tell us about that experience. - So, again, it's the
experience of distilling very complex science to simple. You can't satisfy everyone. The simplification is
absolutely necessary. Again, it was delivered
at 1,800-odd pages. It had to be cut down to 600 and I have to do most of the cutting. So things get left on the floor. Things have to be cut off
and left on the floor. So you have to have a
radical simplification in many places and scientists
don't like being simplified. They don't like their
work being simplified, but in order to communicate
with a much wider audience, you have to take away terminology, take away even people. Too many names becomes word salad. Readers get switched off. If you use too much terminology,
people get switched off. So that's one. So there's the criticisms
of omission is one area. One of the controversial
parts the book involved questions like race and IQ. I really thought that for
this book, it was odd. This was long before these questions had become very central. So there's a chapter on
race and a chapter on IQ, both of which were read by
people I respected in the field. Actually, Marcus Feldman over at Stanford, who you know very well,
was a very important person who read the chapter on race. The chapter on IQ was also
read by many, many people in the psychiatric community. I really felt that those
were important to put in. In retrospect, I feel even more strongly that they were important to put in, but there are disagreements about some of these fundamental questions. So it's part of the territory. - [Jennifer] Yeah, absolutely. - So maybe I'll continue this, since we're speaking
about books and words. You know, I'm very sensitive
to the idea of words around, words like war on
cancer, battle on cancer. Some people, some patients don't like it. One woman famously said to
me, you go fight the war. This is not a word that I want to own. Others want to own that word. It somehow helps. The idea of them fighting something in their own bodies helps them. What do you feel about
the word gene editing? Tell us what the various words have been and what did you coin yourself? What do you say yourself
when you use these words? Genetic surgery has been
used to describe this. What's your sense of any of this? - Yeah, I think we've seen, I've noticed an interesting evolution in
language around gene editing. So it started off as people
would pretty much universally call it genome engineering, right? Genome engineering. Obviously CRISPR was not the
first way to modify genomes. There were earlier
technologies for doing this, and they really were
engineering in the sense that you actually had to
engineer proteins individually to make targeted changes to DNA in cells, and that involved a lot of work and a lot of engineering in the lab, engineering of proteins. When CRISPR came along, initially the same
language was applied to it, but what's happened, and
this wasn't me at all. This just sort of happened
organically, I think, in the field, is that people began to adopt the language gene editing. Why? Well, I think it's because
it sort of reflects the maybe simpler nature
of this technology in the sense that it doesn't
require a lot of engineering for this tool to be employed in-- - [Dr. Mukherjee] When did
you hear that phrase first, Jennifer? - Gene editing?
- Gene editing, yeah. - Gene editing. I think it started sometime
back around the time that we had the first international
conference in Washington at the end of 2015 on gene editing, and I think we used that
language for that meeting. Maybe at some level, that
started to permeate the language that was used to describe
it in other contexts. But I started to ask people,
people like George Church, when do you use editing and
when do you use engineering? And I think it was George that said, well, I really think that the
new ways of modifying genes are much more like
editing than engineering because we don't have to
engineer anything to do this. We can just use the tool. - Right, and do you think, moving forward, this term will stick? Is it easy for you now to use this? Do you find there's a facility with it? - I think so. I mean, I'm curious to know,
and I try to ask this question of people that are not scientists, ask them how they react to that. What does that mean to you
when someone says gene editing? Does that mean anything
or is it just opaque? But I think it's fairly
descriptive of what it is that we're really doing. Because if you think about
it, it's really a tool, really a technology that's
all about rewriting DNA. We've been able to synthesize DNA. So we can write it, we can erase it, we can cut and paste it,
and now we can rewrite it. So I think it really is sort of analogous to having a text editor that you're using on the genetic code. - One of the astonishing things, I don't know how many people have worked with the CRISPR-Cas9 system. One of the astonishing things
as a user in human biology is how simple it is. It is very, very simple, and maybe that's part of the captured in this idea of gene editing. It seems to me, one thought I
had is that for a long time, I struggled with it to figure
out how it would help us therapeutically in cancer. Of course, to elucidate targets in cancer, to genetically manipulate cancer cells, it's really, really simplified, but could we use this
therapeutically in cancer? And I struggled with that for awhile, and, of course, the
answer has now come to us. You can't necessarily
use it in cancer cells because evolution is working against you. You have to essentially get it, we think, in 100% of the cancer cells. Otherwise, the ones that have
not been edited will evolve and take over. Maybe you can do it over and over again, but the fact that the immune system has now become quite clearly
one of the mechanisms of controlling cancer, and immune cells, you
can manipulate and edit, and thereby reintroduce them. So it's really given us a powerful way to think about cancer, not from the standpoint of cancer itself, but from the microenvironment
around cancer. Couple of questions that arise. One is it seems to me that
editing sperm and eggs, or sperm and egg making
cells, is going to be easier than doing it in the entire embryo. What do you think are
the prospects of that and is that something, do you
see yourself, your own lab, ever moving in that direction? Making edited human sperm and eggs? - So I think you're absolutely right, and my disclaimer is that I'm not a human developmental
biologist by any stretch, but I think that from what
I've come to understand from talking to people that
are experts in this area, I think that this is absolutely coming, that it's going to be possible, and it's gonna obviate the
question of editing human embryos because you won't need to.
- Which is much harder. - Right, you won't need to. You'll edit the sperm and eggs. And would I ever do this in my own lab? No. (laughs) Not for any reason other than that's not the kind of
biologist that I am. That's not the kind of
expertise that I have. But I think that you're right that in terms of thinking
about future clinical impacts, this is an area of very active development where there's likely to be real advances. - One piece of conversation
we were having earlier, which is an important thread to pick up, is that it seems that a
lot of the conversations have focused around gene editing, but we're also seeing the
simultaneous development of other technologies. You mentioned one of them,
embryology, stem cell biology, and the third one is artificial
intelligence, deep learning. I have a couple of thoughts about deep learning and genetics, particularly from the
standpoint of cancer, but I'd love to hear
your thoughts as well. One thing that occurred to me
was deep learning is beginning to elucidate things about our genome that I did not think possible before. I read this fascinating study of early cardiovascular disease. So if you take cardiovascular disease and you ask the question, how many patients with
early cardiovascular disease can be explained by single gene mutations? And this is how we grew up as biologists. We thought about mutation in
a gene affecting a pathway, thereby causing the change
that leads to a disease. Very classical genetic model of thinking. And cardiovascular disease,
familial hypercholesterolemia, you get elevated cholesterol. You have all sorts of problems. This study looked at
if you take 100 people, only two of them, two of
those 100, can be explained by these sort of powerful
single gene mutations that will increase risk. The question is, what about the rest? What about the other 98? And for a long time, we
didn't really know how to solve that problem. My colleagues in complex
genomics tell me now that deep learning is beginning to solve these kinds of problems,
that, in fact, it turns out that complex human phenotype
can often be explained by what I would call not shove effects. So those single genes were like shoves. They would push you
strongly in one direction. But by nudge effects. Often hundreds or often even
thousands of gene variants that nudge you towards, you know, have small effect
in and of themselves, but as a network, or maybe in the context, move you even a little
bit, even slightly towards your ultimately. So the question really arises
is that if that's going to be the case with most human diseases, does gene editing help with nudge effects? Can you imagine ways or would
it only help with shove genes? Are we gonna reach some
kind of biological limit, as it were, to the capacity
to manipulate human phenotype? It's a complicated question. So I don't know what your
thoughts about that are. - Well, I have two thoughts about that. I mean, one is that I think that CRISPR and gene editing technologies
that are coming from that are going to help with nudge effects in the sense that they're
gonna help us uncover all the genes that are in those networks, and that's already happening. So there's lots and
lots of laboratories now that are using gene
editing, not in the clinic, but they're using it to understand the genetics of human disease. And they're doing it both in
human cells and organoids, which are cultured bits of organs that you can grow in the lab, as well as in animal models of disease. So I think that's gonna
be a very powerful way. And frankly, I totally agree
with what you're saying about using artificial
intelligence or machine learning to help us understand those networks 'cause they're often complicated and you have to really
understand all the players that might be contributing
to a particular trait, for example. But the other way that I
think that gene editing will potentially have an impact
clinically in the future, and we're not there today, but I think the technology
is going in that direction, is being able to edit or
modify multiple genes at once. - [Dr. Mukherjee] What's up with that? - Well, sometimes these genes are found in very disparate parts
of the genetic material, but sometimes they're
actually co-localizing in three dimensional space,
and there's more and more that's being learned about
how that works in cells. So I'm thinking that in the
future it may be possible to use gene editing to alter
multiple genes at once, maybe to remove whole segments of a genome that aren't necessary for certain kinds of developmental pathways, for example, in particular cell types. I think the opportunities
for using it as a real tool of understanding of the
genome are still really very much out there to be captured. - So let me turn the
question that you asked me in the beginning of the
conversation back to you. What does the phrase human
evolution mean to you in 2018? - What does the phrase human
evolution mean to me in 2018? - [Dr. Mukherjee] How
has that changed for you? - Well, I think we're on
this incredible continuum. It really is an exciting time. I feel many days a sense of wonder. I feel amazed that I'm alive at this time when we're at this moment
when all these technologies are coming together
and, for the first time, we can do things. Like we said, in Chancellor
Christ's introduction, we really have now the
power to control evolution, and it's not just in principle our own. That's obviously still
on the leading edge, but to control evolution
of other organisms in our environment. It's a really profound opportunity and a profound responsibility. So I hope that we can all work together and work as you're doing to educate people about the science behind this
so they can think about it and really contemplate what this means. - [Dr. Mukherjee] Is it possible to have an international moratorium until we decide this is conceivable? - No. (laughs) No, it's really not, because
as we discussed earlier, I think culturally there
are just many differences in the way people approach these things, and how would you enforce such a thing? But I think what one can
do is engage in discussions that are international, invite
people to share their views, try to understand where
they're coming from, and I think that's what
universities should be doing. We should be encouraging that and be really leading that conversation. Not dictating it, but just inviting it and welcoming different points of view. So I would like to now open
up the floor for questions, 'cause I know that some
of you may have questions, and we'd really like to
hear what you're thinking and try to answer them. So we have runners with
microphones that are coming around and if you raise your
hand, they will call on you and we will bring a microphone to you. And who's calling out the... - [Woman] I'll start on this side. - The lights are in our face so excuse us if we turn to you late. Yes? - [Man] Hi, thanks, it was a great talk. My question is sort of quick. I'm just wondering what have been the three most
influential-slash-favorite books for both of you. - Well, it's interesting that you ask because we were just
saying, this week, I think, is the 50th anniversary
of The Double Helix, Jim Watson's famous and at
one point infamous book, which actually was really
a trailblazer for me as a young reader, showed
the human process of science, warts and all, and I was
very influenced by it. I was also very influenced
as a young reader by Orwell. All of Orwell's books were
very influential to me, in fact, have influenced my thinking. And then I would say, I
discovered in writing The Gene, I discovered someone I
had weirdly neglected, and I wrote about him recently in an essay for The
New Yorker, Chesterton. Now, you could say, well, what
about Chesterton and gene? In fact, Chesterton wrote
very deeply about eugenics. He was one of the great
skeptics of eugenics. I discovered his writing much later, and realized that there's
something wonderful about his very bracing
skepticism about eugenics. So those would be three
books sort of picked out of a basket of thousands. How about you, Jennifer? - Yeah, fascinating. Well, I have to say that
The Double Helix also for me was incredibly influential. That book was probably
the first book that I read back when I was in grade
school about science, and it kind of blew my mind. For those of you that have read it, it's really a very personal
history of the work that Watson and Crick
and their colleagues did to discover the structure of DNA. It was really very eye-opening for me, and really made me think
about becoming a scientist for the first time. And then the other two might surprise you. Maybe not. One is I would have to say
The John McPhee Reader. I don't know if anybody
here knows John McPhee, but he's a fabulous writer and he writes about all sorts of topics, and what he does is he
basically travels around and talks to interesting people. A lot of them are scientists,
but some of them aren't, and he writes about it. I found his writing to
be incredibly captivating and interesting, again,
in my formative years. And then more recently, I read a biography of Dorothy Hodgkin that
was also just fantastic. Learning about her life
and she had multiple kids and she was working at a time when it was very difficult for women in science in particular, and she prevailed, and
she won the Nobel Prize. She did really just incredible,
groundbreaking work. So that was also incredibly
inspiring for me. - There's a little note in The Gene. I actually met Dorothy Hodgkin years ago. There's a little note in The Gene, where when she won the Nobel Prize, the subtitle in one of her photographs was A Housewife From Sussex,
or wherever she lived. (both laugh) - [Jennifer] Oh, wonderful. - [Woman] Hi, I think
I'm the next questioner. - Where are you in space? - Wave to us. - Wave to us. Oh, there you are.
- There you are, okay. - [Woman] You talked earlier
about the cultural differences or the difference in cultures
in terms of their approach to the opportunity and
responsibility of gene editing. Can you kind of talk a
little bit more about China or other parts of the world
and what their approaches are? And I think that's an
interesting piece for the public to understand where things are going in other parts of the world
and what your opinions are about what's happening
in other parts of the world. - You take that one first. - Well, okay. Again, this is really just my
personal observations, right? But I think that what I've noticed is that in certain parts of the world, and I'm not putting any particular
country on the spot here, but I think there are parts of the world where there's an incredible
eagerness to be engaging in the scientific process. People that have felt
maybe not included in that in the recent history
and wanna get into it, and wanna be recognized for their work. They wanna be prominent. They wanna attract attention. They want to make progress. So I think there are
motivations that go beyond the simple joy of discovery, which I think all scientists share. There also are people
that are thinking about really putting their country
or their culture on the map in terms of international recognition. So I think that we're seeing
that there is some of that that's driving the push
towards certain kind of edgier, I would say, applications of
something like gene editing. And that's where we
just need to be careful. Again, what I've observed
is that there's a desire on the part of scientists to be respected by their colleagues, to be
accepted by their colleagues. So I think there is a
willingness and an interest in engaging in sort of an
international consensus around what we all consider
to be appropriate use of technologies. That's just my observation and I think that's what
we should be encouraging. Because culturally people do approach these things differently. - And I would say even the
microcultures in science are different. We were talking about,
you know, once in a while, I'll speak with someone
like George Church. I actually had a public
conversation with George. I talked about, George is a big enthusiast of really opening this field up. I think it's fair to say
he would be an enthusiast of making directed manipulations
in human sperm and eggs. And he thinks, that's his brain. I think like a physician first. My first thing that
comes out of my brain is, "Are we ending suffering?" "How can I first do no
harm?" is the first thing that comes out of my brain. People's brains are hooked up differently, and I do think that
people's cultural brains are hooked up differently. Yes, there's a need for provocation. Yes, there's a need to do as you work to put people on the map, but someone who's grown
up in, I grew up in India, the cultural brain, you know,
what we think is permissible and not permissible is different. We have different
understanding, for instance, of where life begins. And that is important. And it's so important that,
in fact, there will be places, there are places that are drawing lines, which then the lines don't
exist across the border. Science will move in accordance to that. If you wanna make genetic
changes in human sperm and eggs, as a scientist, you would
relocate to a place, if you badly wanted to do that, you'd find a place to do it in the world. So that's why I keep coming
back to this question. We need to have some sense of boundary. That's my physician brain speaking, first do no harm brain speaking. We have to have some boundaries. I don't know how to reach them, but I think they're important. - [Man] Hi, question up here. So one of the most surprising
things about genetics for me was that effectively 97% of
DNA itself is noncoding, right? And for awhile, there was
sort of the dead space and you just assume that introns
were there for no reason, and every time I look
at the literature still, it's always kind of vague and confusing, and it's like, well,
introns may do something, they may have some role. But I guess my question is,
what is the current attitude towards introns in general,
with respect to DNA, and do you think CRISPR
will ever become so advanced such that these kinds of concerns are going to become necessary in whether we're gonna understand
something else about that? I understand that's kind of theoretical. (audience laughs) - We're both pointing at each other. - Well, let's explain
some terminology first, just to widen out the question. So one of the surprising things that we learned as biologists, in fact, this happens to be the 40th year of the discovery of gene splicing. And there was a big
symposium, I went to it. So it turns out that, in
fact, a gene in the genome is often broken up into parts, and they're long parts that
are spliced out or removed when that gene finally
becomes a mature RNA, which then gives a protein. So introns are those long
parts that are removed. Exons are the parts that
ultimately make their way into becoming protein, and the question has to do with, well, what about all those
introns and also the other space, the intergenic spaces, which for a long time
were called junk DNA? That's a terms that we
inherited from the 19... The history's interesting of that term. We inherited that term
for really no good reason. We inherited that term
from the 1960s and 1970s when our understanding of the genome was much, much more limited. My one thought about this is for cancer, it's turning out that those introns and that the intergenic
spaces are turning out to be extraordinarily important. Not all of it, but much of it. Jennifer, you refer to some of this. It's not only important in terms of regulating gene function. It is important in terms of
the way DNA folds in space and that also regulates gene function. Some parts of it will turn
out to be unimportant. There are lots of viruses
that sank their way into the genome, which have been silenced. In fact, there are whole
systems to silence these viruses that might pop their
heads up from the genome. So it's an active space, but all I can tell you is that in cancer, these previously
nonfunctional elements of DNA are turning out to becoming
extraordinarily important. And, by the way, how are we finding out that they're extraordinarily important? By using CRISPR. By chucking them out
and all of sudden seeing that they, in fact,
influence gene function in ways that we hadn't
thought about before. In cancer, that's a huge area of research, but I don't know what your thoughts are. - [Jennifer] Yeah, I don't
have anything to add. That's exactly right. - [Man] Over here. - Yeah, sorry. - [Man] My question is
regarding the accessibility of gene therapy and CRISPR systems. I mean, currently a treatment with antisense oligonucleotides
is $400,000 a year, and do you ever see these technologies helping the entire world, or just more well-developed nations? - Yeah, well, it's a great question. It's a really important question, and something that I am
thinking about a lot. I think this is on a
lot of people's minds, and whenever there's a new technology, you ask, what is this doing
to really help people globally versus creating even
more inequalities, right? And I think we'd all like
to see it do the former and not the latter. But inevitably when you
have new technologies, it's expensive to develop those and if you want to motivate
companies especially to do the work that's necessary
to create a therapeutic and go through all the clinical
trials that are necessary, there is a big investment involved, and that does lead to high costs of those kinds of treatments. How do you deal with that? So one of the things that
I'm involved in right now is some very active,
very exciting discussions with our clinical colleagues
at UC San Francisco. So through the Innovative
Genomics Institute, we've been working on something called the Genome Surgery Center. It's in its fledgling stages, but the real idea behind
this is to address exactly the issue that you're raising. I think none of us want
to see these technologies develop to help the .01%. We really want to see them develop to help a much larger swath of people. And so how do you do that? How do you get there and
deal with the realities of the costs of development? So there's some really creative ideas that are coming out of this. We have here, of course, at UC Berkeley, we have a lot of people
that are thinking about this from the standpoint of
economics, sociology, history, philosophy that we're engaging with. Also at Stanford University. And so, we have this great
intellectual community here in the Bay Area to really tackle this, and I'd really like to see us
take that on very directly, and find ways to develop, for example, just to give you an example,
what if you could find a way to treat a large swath of people that have a particular genetic disease using one configuration of
a gene editing technology that wouldn't require
individual clinical trials for each one? This would really reduce costs. So we're looking into ways
that we can streamline that, and to do that, we really
need to bring together people that are doing the technology development with those that are clinicians. They know their patients and they know what the technology
needs to be able to do. It's a great challenge and
we're, I think, on the cusp of being able to tackle it. - I mean, sickle cell
disease is going to be one of the first examples of this. How we tackle it is really
gonna be one of the models. Because, as a hematologist, I've taken care of hundreds of patients, young men and women, often
African-American men and women with sickle cell disease. It's a devastating disease,
debilitating disease. You know, pain crises, opioid addiction that comes with dealing
with these pain crises. So it's a tough disease. It is a disease that I think
is going to be very amenable to gene editing based
technologies and transplantation. It is on the cusp of becoming
very amenable to all of these, and the question is, how
are we gonna price that? And will we create a
gene therapy overclass and a gene therapy underclass? So that's one area that I think
that at least people like me are very actively watching. Thalassemia is another area. We're on the cusp of these, and I think those will be
models of trying to figure out, can we offer gene editing
to people who really need it without excluding them with cost barriers? You have the mic, yeah? - [Man] I have a microphone,
so maybe I'm next. - [Jennifer] Okay, go for it. - [Man] That was a really
fascinating discussion just now because from reading the book The Gene and also just thinking about
what we're going to do. The first thing that comes to mind, this wasn't my initial thing
I was going to talk about, but it's wonderful to solve diseases, but is the first disease
we're going to solve be a white disease? And that's just an aside based on what you were talking about here, and what you presented
about, underprivileged or where the money is,
et cetera, Dr. Doudna. - The quick answer is I don't think so. I think that the first disease
that we're gonna solve, I hope, is a disease of true suffering, which is most amenable
to these technologies, don't you think, Jennifer? - [Jennifer] I do. - I think that that's the first disease. - [Man] I hope so, and
won't it be fantastic when we solve that first disease? But then my question was,
or where I was fantasizing, and let's fantasize for a minute. Our first trip to Mars was
a little bit tough, okay? There was a certain group
of people who went there. A number of people died there. This is the fantasy, right? - I see. (audience laughs) - [Man] And didn't really come out the way they wanted it to. But we're going back to Mars. Shouldn't we be pre-adapted? We need to modify our corneas so we're not blind when we get there through extended space travel. Maybe we need to modify our gut so that we can eat this simple organism that we can grow on Mars. Perhaps we should also address
the issues about our bones so we won't collapse
and break like pretzels when we get on Mars. - You should come to our
workshop on astrobiology. - [Man] Pardon me? - Come to our workshop on astrobiology. We're gonna talk. - [Man] But now we're
pre-adapting a group of people that becomes almost like a
plaid of people, if you will, that are different from everyone else because they are going to Mars, and that just opens up the
thought about other plaids of people as well for different purposes, and really puts you into a territory that could be quite scary. - So I can give you my two bits on this. Lots of people disagree. I don't want to go to Mars right now. I'd rather focus on cancer. (audience applauds) To me, the question is,
yes, the fantasy's lovely. Lots of people disagree with me. I actually got into a strange
argument with Jeff Bezos about going to the moon. The moon is a far away place, which is very toxic for human beings. It's not a great place
to carry heavy things to because it's very expensive. It's not a great place to put anything in. There's a reason we aren't going there. It has no atmosphere. So I'd rather focus on curing
cancer and other diseases, but I understand it, that there is a desire to
escape these earthly coils. It doesn't fascinate me as a question. I don't know. Are you fascinated by the question? - I'm fascinated by the question, but I'm even more fascinated
by asking the audience to ask us one more question (audience laughs) and then we're going to
bring this to a close. So do we have one more burning question? Yes? - [Woman] Hi, thank you for
the great talk, first of all. I can already foresee many
ways in which genetic editing could be beneficial to curing diseases and just ending suffering
as you were mentioning. But what I was wondering
is from what I know and what I learned, a lot of
mutations occur just naturally within evolution. So I was wondering how,
or what your thoughts were on how genetic diversity
could be affected by editing and changing our genome. - Well, the short answer
is not much anytime soon. Because what we're talking about is making very targeted
changes to the DNA of cells that would be, at least in the near term, this is gonna be done in people in cells where it's
not a heritable change. So you're really making a
targeted change in a tissue or an organ in a patient, or
in blood cells, for example, for sickle cell disease
and that sort of thing. If you think in the longer term, I still think that there's always gonna be a background number of
mutations that are occurring. Every cell division leads to
some random changes to DNA that happen due to
various natural processes. And what we're talking about here is really just making one individual or maybe just a handful of
individual targeted changes. So if you think about that
in the context of evolution, they're sort of intermeshed, and you're always going to
have this background set of changes that are happening. I think the potential
to control those changes and introduce changes that are gonna have a real impact on disease
is a powerful one. But I think, as you get from
this conversation today, this is not going to happen
in any kind of a large sense in the human population anytime soon. I don't know how you would address that. - I would put a word of warning on that. I think it's a very important question. The question of
diminishing human diversity and having respect for human variation is an incredibly important point. I just often like to give
you the following example. Privatized eugenics in
the hands of the citizens of some parts of Northern
India has already created a disgenic state where
because of infant neglect or because of selective abortion, the gender ratio in these parts
and some parts of the world has now moved to 800 women,
800 girls, to 1,000 boys. It's a profoundly abnormal, unnatural, nowhere in human history have we had 800 girls to 1,000 boys. And that's mainly, because
of a combination of reasons, but mainly driven by the
idea that one genetic makeup is inferior quote unquote
to the other genetic makeup. There's no state mandate. In fact, the state prevents
you from doing this, but privatized eugenics
has already diminished human diversity radically in some places. So I have to say, we have to
be extraordinarily careful, even in handing over
to private individuals, private citizens, the capacity
to select their own genomes or the genomes of their children. This is such a primeval desire. To have the best children
is a primeval human desire, and it is so primeval that
left in the hands of people without cultural guidance,
without broad dialogue, without inclusivity, without equality, there is a rapid chance of it
devolving into a diminishment or a reduction of natural
human variation and diversity. Thank you for saying that (audience applauds) because it's a very important point. And we've seen it happen. Shall we? - I think we're at the
end of our discussion, but we want to thank
all of you for coming. Thank you to the chancellors
of UC Berkeley and UCSF. - Thank you for hosting me. - And our hosts and all
of you for attending, and we hope that you'll
continue the conversation. Thank you.
- Thank you. (audience applauds) (percussive music)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 4szND0h4dR4 (https://youtu.be/4szND0h4dR4) ===

good morning my name is kenneth ford and it is an honor for me to welcome this extraordinary group of colleagues and guests to colombia and to this historic space having been around here for over 50 years as medical student faculty member of the university senate department vice chair and now chair of our trustees health sciences committee i have lived more than a little of the modern history that this exciting television series documents and as we're going to hear from our distinguished panel today the genomic revolution has brought us to a new threshold not of not only understanding but also the promise of effective precision treatments for the many diseases we know as cancer now some of you may remember i got to learn firsthand just how powerful television can be in educating people in our country about cancer and its prevention i was privileged some years ago to work with katie carrick in promoting colon cancer awareness and indeed the correct effect with the peabody that accompanied it established her effectiveness in media and in medical history and it was in this very room nearly four years ago that dr siddhartha mukherjee received his pulitzer prize for the brilliant sweeping history he told in the emperor of all maladies that's why readers know him as an extraordinary medical historian and vivid storyteller starting a week from now thanks to these acclaimed filmmakers weta and pbs millions of viewers around the world will see and hear sid in that role as well here at columbia we know him best as a researcher and clinician in hematology and oncology so this morning's conversation moderated by dr steve emerson the head of our herbert irving cancer center is going to focus on the future that sid his colleagues here and our guests from two great peer academic institutions are together inventing in the care and cures for cancer let me point out that this is also the room where ken burns and barack goodman received the dupont colombia awards for excellence in broadcasting so on behalf of president lee bollinger and columbia health sciences dean dr lee goldman let me welcome all of you and most importantly i welcome katie carrick back to colombia and thank her for her extraordinary leadership of stand-up to cancer this organization has made much vital research possible both here at colombia and around the nation and of course it has played a central role in bringing the emperor of all maladies to a national audience on public television in the weeks ahead katie welcome hi everyone good morning gosh being with you ken brings back so many wonderful memories of probes and profafal and all sorts of other things and i know you've done tens of thousands of colonoscopies but believe me i'll never forget mine and neither will much of the nation apparently it's wonderful to be here this morning before such an impressive group of people it's great to be here also a week from the broadcast of this very important documentary series on the story of cancer it's a story that unfortunately is all too familiar to so many of us i lost my first husband jay monahan to colon cancer in 1998 when he was just 42 years old our daughters were six and two at the time and three years later pancreatic cancer took my oldest sister emily and i'm sure many of you are here today because you have faced similar heartache in in your life but there is another side to the story of cancer it's about scientific breakthroughs it's about how our understanding of this disease has evolved and how brilliant researchers are utilizing that knowledge to save lives every day i think today more than ever the story of cancer is actually a story of hope but sadly the researchers on the front lines of this disease are too often lack the funding they sorely need to make meaningful progress towards new treatments after focusing solely on colon cancer awareness on raising money for colon cancer research i thought colon cancer and colons in general are probably getting too much of my attention there are so many other cancers that deserve money that deserve research that deserve resources so in 2007 i teamed up with a group of eight other women in the entertainment industry to see how we could use the resources available to us to address the problem of scientists not getting the funding they deserve and need we consulted leading physician and physician scientists including denny slayman who is with us today about what it would take to speed up the process process of getting new therapies to patients the recommendations were simple first find the very best scientists working on the same problems at different institutions and get them to collaborate on teams secondly fund those teams at a meaningful level and lastly hold those teams accountable for real results in terms of patient benefit benefits so in 2008 we launched an initiative called stand up to cancer to establish a new paradigm for how cancer research is conducted four star-studded telecasts across multiple network platforms later we've now funded 13 research dream teams 26 individual investigators who have out of the box ideas more than 800 scientists have collaborated through stand-up to cancer from 115 institutions all around the world all together they've launched launched more than 120 clinical trials enrolling over 5200 patients so those numbers translate into the simple fact that we are pressing the gas pedal on cancer research and we're not going to stop until our scientists are able to produce effective important and meaningful new therapies as i'd like to say hell hath no fury like nine type a women frustrated by the seemingly slow pace of progress in cancer research one of those women was laura ziskin the legendary film producer who was the heart and soul of stand up to cancer laura lived with breast cancer for seven years before it took her life in 2011. she had long dreamed of producing a documentary about cancer and when she read the book the emperor of all maladies she knew she had found the perfect source at laura's urging the entertainment industry foundation obtained the tv and film rights to sid's magnificent book for its stand up to cancer initiative i think it is thrilling to see laura's dream realized by such a brilliant team of people sid ken pam williams laura's longtime producing partner and the peabody winning director barrick goodman when we announced this project in 2013 sid made a point that resonates in the film and especially here at this institution of learning we cannot sustain the current momentum in cancer research unless we inspire and engage a whole new generation of scientists willing to roll up their sleeves and get involved so i'm thrilled to announce the emperor science awards program which will provide scholarships and mentorships with research scientists to students from disadvantaged high schools throughout the country encouraging them to pursue careers in science and hopefully fingers crossed cancer research the first group of scientists who have volunteered as mentors represent an array of institutions organizations and companies including the stony brook university cancer center siemens bristol myers squibb the american cancer society and our very own sid mukherjee i'd also like to thank genentech bristol meyer squibb and novartis for funding 300 emperor science awards over the next three years 300 young minds that could go on to write the next chapters on of this story and perhaps one day god willing the end now it's my pleasure to introduce the executive producer of this wonderful and compelling documentary he is america's documentarian in chief who revel revolutionized the form with his series on the civil war and went on to tackle so many other seminal topics in american history and now he's taken on thank you ken the subject of cancer and people i think will never look at it in quite the same way so ladies and gentlemen please welcome ken burns good morning particularly in the hallowed halls of colombia and its adherence to journalism it would be a mistake for me to bury the lead the lead is that on monday starting monday march 30th and continuing the 31st and april 1st pbs across the country thanks to weta my producing partner for the last 35 years will broadcast a three-part six-hour series called cancer the emperor of all maladies it is based on siddhartha mukherjee's remarkable pulitzer prize winning book but i think for those of us engaged over the past four plus years in trying to bring this story to national attention there are some interesting and poignant backstories not the least of which is as katie suggested that this was born in the sort of fiery passion of laura ziskin's mind and heart and she brought us to the starting line and could not run the race with us one of the people who delivered the story the message of this film ed hermann our narrator died of brain cancer literally days after he finished the narration and so as so many in this room indeed in this great city and this country we our lives are touched by and in this case our film bracketed by death from this insidious disease i come to you with a deep connection to columbia university i was born in 1953 when my parents were living on morningside heights my father was a graduate student in anthropology at columbia my mother had a job at kings county hospital she was trained in biology she developed breast cancer almost immediately after my birth and i watched for the next 11 plus years as my mother slowly decayed and died of breast cancer it was witnessed not only by myself but my brother rick who is an alumnus of columbia university we are connected to this great institution my awareness and involvement of this project began with an extraordinary woman named sharon rockefeller who's here who was emerging from her own life-threatening struggle with cancer and had the opportunity as she was recuperating and struggling with treatments to read hot off the presses sid's remarkable book she asked me if i would do this in fact she ordered me to do it and i had a full plate of films and could not do it but after reading sid's book and understanding the way in which my own mother's death had formed me and who i am now telling histories waking the dead trying to have conversations with people who are no longer here it became obviously clear that somehow i had to do this i had an opportunity to meet sid and begin a very long journey but for us the real question was how we would tell the story how we would translate this magnificent work of literature this magnificently complex history into television for a general audience i knew that i had to find someone who would do the day-to-day producing and directing and i fortunately knew all of my folks in house were busy but i knew of the work and had admired for many years the work of barrack goodman and it was a few short decisions later that we entered into all of us this incredibly complex journey we're used to barrick and i are are used to telling history sort of straight historical narratives that's not easy to wake the dead to make the past uh come alive but we realize for this film to be an accurate reflection of what sid had attempted to do he said to us we need an executive summary of this disease we need to know where we've been we need to know where we are we need to know where we're going and that's not something we in this media culture get we hear a nightly news report about this breakthrough or this setback or that this problem or this new drug and we have no way to collate and organize it into any uh principle that allows us as laypeople let alone scientists to go forward uh with an understanding of this disease if it is indeed as sid suggests the emperor of all maladies then we are all its subjects and are obligated to be part of a resistance movement but what will the facts be so barrick and i and our team of writers particularly jeff ward who struggled with understanding that we would have to tell a complex narrative that would have a riveting history this is of course one of the greatest if not the most important detective story uh ever that it would therefore require in the course of that history communicating complex scientific information to a lay audience which required ways of understanding of illustrating that would transcend the normal narratives that we do but we also had to anchor it in personal experiences i am loathed to say case studies because we are drawn to human experience and quite often in the conversation about cancer we have left the agency of the patient out of it and we felt obligated to anchor this with stories of real human beings like you and like me who suffer who relate who lose who gain who are cured who die from this disease and so for the last four years we have embedded ourselves in a couple of hospitals and other locations become flies on the wall and been privileged to witness that unique interaction between caregivers and the patients and their families and our film is essentially this mongrel collection of history and science and intimate stories that we are extremely excited to share with you beginning next week now the series is as i said three episodes six hours so i've asked the guards to lock the doors and we'll be out at a little bit after four o'clock in the afternoon i know that you're very anxious to see the whole thing no in fact we have a short ten minute clip just to wet your whistle it's so completely unfair you're parachuting down into a very critical point i think it's important to understand a disease that has been with us as long as there have been uses in this planet um is so very little has been known about it until the most recent times by the 70s the mid 70s we were even unaware of the mechanisms that caused cancer we were cutting it out blindly we were poising it randomly we were radiating it without full understanding of even how it began and so i thought we'd share with you a brief clip from a hugely important moment when the mechanisms of cancer begin to reveal themselves to at least in this case two extraordinary scientists so i'll be back in two minutes to introduce barrick cancer strikes nearly every living thing on this planet it cannot be fully cured until we understand it and to understand it we may have to solve the most complex puzzle of all the nature of life itself the difficulty with handling cancer is that it's a cellular disease it's a disease which is of a different type than any disease we've solved thus far by the mid-1970s scientists had made little progress towards solving the mystery of what causes cancer we only knew three facts about cancer the first fact was that viruses could cause cancer but we also knew that chemicals could cause cancer now what viruses and chemicals had to do with each other in causing cancer we didn't know but here were two independent causes and then we had a clue that genes might be involved in causing cancer these tiny structures seen under the microscope are called chromosomes in each cell of the body is a fixed and constant number of these chromosomes consisting of a fixed and orderly arrangement of genes there were clues that it would involve genes and they were clues that were largely ignored first clue would be simply that the cancer cell gives rise to more cancer cells which gives rise to more cancer cells that doesn't happen unless there are genes involved clue two was that some cancers are inherited in a limited number of cases that screams genes so viruses chemicals genes we couldn't figure that out we believed in every one of them but what the relationship was between these we had no idea the most important thing is that everyone thinks it has to be a resolution so in other words these three theories have to have a central explanation it's sort of the grand unified theory of cancer the final piece of the puzzle of carcinogenesis came from a west coast lab at the university of california at san francisco run by a young virologist named michael bishop when i arrived at ucsf in february 1968 there was no clear single theory about what makes a cancer cell and in fact nothing all that tangible it was a black box i was working on poliovirus at the time and then i was introduced to the rouse sarcoma virus of chickens and overnight became a cancer scientist bishop was soon joined in his lab by a young researcher named harold varmus i was a young doc who had actually spent more time studying english literature than science but i started talking with mike who had been trained much as i had as a dock and then had learned something about new technologies by working with poliovirus the two of us realized we had the same objective in mind it took about 10 minutes for me to recognize that he had a laser-like intelligence and that we could work together and probably have a good time doing it together bishop and varmus decided to tackle the riddle of carcinogenesis by studying the strange virus first found in chicken tumor cells the rouse sarcoma virus the remarkable thing about this virus was that you could infect cells in a test tube and then the next day those cells would all be cancer cells it was an extraordinary transformation and how that worked how that happened was absolute mystery the nascent discipline of molecular biology was developing and so for the first time there were the experimental instruments with which one could attack this problem look inside cancer cells peer into the nuclei of these cells and peer inside the genes that these cells carried in their dna the rous sarcoma virus presented a rare opportunity to watch carcinogenesis up close we weren't studying viruses as a cause of cancer we were studying viruses as a way to find out how cancer arises what's the mechanism of the disease viruses are usually very simple this particular virus has only four genes and we have tens of thousands of them to understand how just four genes can give rise to cancer really simplified the problem immensely through a process of elimination a few labs including bishop and varmus's zeroed in on one of the viruses genes this virus that causes cancer has four genes and they find that a closely related virus that doesn't cause cancer has three genes and that's a very interesting difference what's this extra gene and then the evidence begins to melt this gene right carried by the virus the extra gene can cause the cancer it was called an oncogene a cancer-causing gene in the virus and then we began to think about a puzzle and the puzzle was why does the virus have this cancer gene this gene we called sarc the only thing it does is to convert the cell to a cancerous state so the cancer gene seemed almost superfluous well if the virus doesn't actually need the gene why does it have it where did it come from maybe they thought the cancer-causing gene did not originate in the virus at all maybe it originated in the chicken to my astonishment when we looked in normal chicken cells we found something that resembled the sarc cancer gene and aroused sarcoma virus it was a riveting moment everybody expected that the shark gene the sarc oncogene the cancer gene was a natural resident within the genome of rao sarcoma virus but in fact the profound discovery they made was that rao sarcoma virus had actually stolen had kidnapped that gene from the repertoire of normal genes that are normally stored in the genome of a normal chicken cell if the sarc oncogene had actually descended from a normal gene in chickens where else might it be found we looked at ducks we looked at emus and rias which the most primitive birds living and then eventually by fiddling with the technology we could show that was even in humans the fact that sarc existed in all organisms not just in viruses but in chicken and geese and in humans that fact gave a very crucial clue because that meant that genes that are capable of causing cancer are already existing inside animal genomes i mean imagine how exciting that would have been now all of a sudden you begin to see through the darkness a glimpse of what the clear theory of cancer is there are genes in your body that control normal cellular growth and if you disrupt these genes you essentially begin to unleash cancer finally the mystery of carcinogenesis had a single explanation the oncogene the important thing is that the viral theory was not wrong the environmental theory was not wrong the heredity theory was not wrong they were just insufficient it was like the blind men and the elephant they were catching parts of the hole and then all of a sudden if you stepped back you saw the whole elephant the discovery of the sarc oncogene by bishop and varmus electrified the field and would win them the nobel prize in the years that followed labs around the world discovered dozens of other genes simply awaiting a mutation to transform them into oncogenes it is a discovery of great proportions the idea that a gene can be switched on to produce abnormal proteins and thus cancer it could mean that all things we associate with cancer radiation hereditary defects chemicals rare viruses smoking all work by touching the same trigger the oncogene i think for the first time there was a mechanistic explanation on why cancer was occurring and it was a total revolution the promise that perhaps if the oncogenes were responsible for the development of cancer then if we were smart enough we ought to be able to attack them and then return and cure the cancer we all had a feeling that everything was about to change that we were playing out the era of trial and error of empiricism and we were beginning to move to a new era of design where we understood enough of the science about cancer that we could imagine the discovery and development of drugs that would selectively target what was wrong what was different about a cancer cell than a normal cell it was a very heady and hopeful time but even in the midst of their euphoria those who had discovered the oncogene were aware of the challenges that lay ahead we have not slain our enemy the cancer cell harold varmus would say when he received the nobel prize we have only seen our monster more clearly and in new ways ways that reveal a cancer cell to be a distorted version of our normal selves minus the intimate stories of individuals you can begin to apprehend the complexity that faced us all credit is due then to my colleague eric goodman who was able to marshal the forces not only to embed documentary producers within the hospitals to record those intimate moments which you will see when you see the entire film but also to take the script from jeff ward myself david blistein and and barrack and and move this into the realm of possibility uh with incredibly complex uh archival research animation and interviews with the finest set of talking heads we've ever had in any film it's my great pleasure to introduce the author of our enterprise barrack goodman thank you so much uh it's great to be home this is i went to the columbia j school and and had an absolutely transformative year there set me on on whatever course i'm on now uh so it's great to be back um can when ken called me about two and a half years ago to be a part of this project i have to admit uh some trepidation because i i had to ask myself what would it be like to spend two and a half years on cancer in in cancer hospitals talking about cancer living with cancer but to my surprise the last two and a half years have been some of the most fun years i've ever spent on any film and i think that's largely because i discovered what many of you already know which is that science is fun it is a wonderful exciting human enterprise full of foibles and failures and guesswork and intuition and and all of those things that we lay people don't usually associate with science and um getting to know some of the world's greatest minds uh in this field especially has been you know surprising exhilarating and you know has made this whole journey a real pleasure i just want to take a second to introduce my colleagues over here jack jungleson chris durance is deborah here could you guys stand up these are my co-directors on the film who who are extremely instrumental in everything we've done um and anyway so i'm just so pleased that we can share this film with you and the rest of the world um and hopefully encourage people to think about cancer differently this is a moment of great optimism in the field great progress is clearly coming and has been made already in understanding cancer and we are thrilled to be able to be a very small part of that so thank you my name is tom maniatis and i'm the director of the new cross-campus precision medicine initiative at columbia i spent most of my life studying genes isolating genes and i found that piece we just viewed really transformational it was a time in the history of cancer when we suddenly realized that there was a way now to go forward so we we could for the first time understand what cancer was about we could develop we can understand mechanisms of the disease we could develop drugs to treat the disease these so-called designer drugs which are tailored to individual cancer types and to individuals an example of the very essence of precision medicine which is now moving forward in a very rapid fashion as you will hear from the distinguished panel this morning which includes sid murkiji breathtaking progress is being made in the understanding and treatment of cancer sid will not only explain as he does so eloquently in his book and film the pioneering research of others but his own work as a part of the university-wide precision medicine initiative sit at the forefront of research and treatment of blood cancer called myodysblastic syndrome or mds for the press and others here you may remember presidents president obama's recent federal commitment to research and precision precision medicine as a national priority and an event many of us attended recently at the white house while this exciting initiative includes the potential for effective new treatments for many diseases cancer is clearly the initial target the strategy for precision medicine is to identify genes that cause cancer to understand the function of the protein products which they encode and understand how mutant forms of proteins cause cancers and from that developed drugs to treat cancer the research in this field is going to be uh on beyond in progress at many academic medical centers across the nation but let me mention just two two quick notes about what we're doing here at columbia and our peer institutions in new york for us precision medicine is a university-wide effort that includes not only our medical center and not only the basic sciences and biomedical engineering on the morningside campus but also humanities data science law public policy and other fields that are required to address big questions raised by the genomics revolution and to train the next generation of students who must be versed in all of these fields and here in new york city through the new york genome center we're joined together with nearly a dozen other institutions in the shared capacity to form perform dna sequencing and manage big data activities that are at the core of this multi multi-disciplinary initiative and in fact many of you may know that harold varmus the person in the film and the discoverer co-discovered their oncogene has recently joined the new york genome center as a means of coordinating all of the cancer activities in the city of new york through the new york genome center there have been previous hopeful moments in the long history of this book that that this book and film recount but the technological advances in dna sequencing technology and computer analyses place us at a new era of cancer research that is already producing major breakthroughs in the understanding and treatment of cancer so let me turn this over now to steve emerson the director of the herbert irving comprehensive cancer center steve is a cancer physician and researcher who has the unique experience of serving as the president of haverford college a superb science-focused liberal arts college i would also like to invite the panel to come up now and to take their seats thank you thank you very much uh my name is steve emerson and welcome to columbia university uh it's my uh honor and pleasure to introduce our panel today who will share with us their excitement being on the front lines of research about where our field has been where it is now and where it is moving rapidly each one of the individuals here is playing a major role in that revolution and we'll ask them briefly to tell us what's most exciting about it and then take questions from the press in the audience so with that i'd like to introduce the panel professor sid mukherjee you've heard already in many forums and hoped we'll hear from again in person dr andrew kung is chief of pediatric hematology oncology he's been witnessing some of the most rapid advances in cancer therapeutics in pediatrics next is dr corey abadi shen who will tell us some of the most exciting advances in systems approaches to understanding cancer cells and how cancer is initiated and can be treated next is dr bill nelson from johns hopkins who leads one of our nation's major cancer centers it's been the site of many advances in immunology and in cancer genetics at its very most fundamental next is dr gary schwartz he's the chief of medical oncology and hematology here at columbia he is was one of the first practitioners of personalized medicine precision medicine at its very outset now leads our programs here at columbia he's also been witness to some of the most important advances in immunotherapy which we'll hear about in some detail and finally dr dennis slayman from ucla uh who's been involved in every aspect of this field including the initiation of the stand up to cancer consortium you'll tell us a bit about some of the biggest impacts of precision therapy so with that introduction let's start first dr mukherjee the films about the history of cancer and research it takes us up to almost the present can you tell us a bit about your own work where you stand in this field what you see as the key issues and what your contributions have been and may be in the future um thank you steve um for that lovely introduction and and um just before i start let me thank uh ken and barrack and katie sharon tom campbell for bringing this amazing piece of work into the world thank you let me tell you a little bit about what we do i was born intellectually when cancer genetics was also being born the idea that genes resident in normal cells could be mutated and thereby unleash a process that would ultimately lead to cancer so that was my sort of my intellectual baptism and um and the question that our laboratory has asked that i'm interested in is what how do we take that information and make something of it what do we do next how does how do these alterations in genes ultimately result in alterations in cellular behavior because ultimately cancer is something that happens beyond genes how do these ultracellular behaviors so that these behaviors result in a cell that grows out of control invades other tissues and ultimately leads to all the morbidity and mortality of cancer so we started we started with blood cancers because it's what we perhaps understand the best i treat patients with leukemia and pre-leukemic disease called mds we bring those samples into the laboratory but really our work begins when we try to understand how these cells survive in the human body one of the most exciting projects that we've done which was published in nature two years three years ago was when we found that in fact these blood cancer cells don't live in isolation they live they make their own homes they make their environments up they live in the bone marrow for a very specific reason because they're getting signals that sustain their development within the bone marrow and the question is you know instead of the traditional chemo chemotherapies which try to attack the cancer cells directly could we change the environment could we change the home in which these cells live so that now we can direct other kinds of therapies which may be less susceptible to the fact that cancer mutates all the time you know in cancer you're playing this nasty evolutionary game trying to play cat and mouse because the cancer cell is evolving all the time but instead of playing cat mouse can we can we change the environment in which the cancer cells can eradicate the homes so that they don't know that they no longer can can can keep one step ahead that's one area of research and the second that i'll mention uh more recently is that we focus more and more on the cell biology of cancer again how do these genes coordinate their lives so that the cancer cell acquires acquires this behavior and that has resulted in a new set of discoveries of stem cells that play roles in in various forms of cancer the most exciting thing that's come out of that exactly about a month ago is that we actually through the lens of cancer we're able to find normal stem cells including a stem cell that seems to build the entire vertebrate skeleton a skeletal stem cell this was published in cell uh two months ago but really gives us a window about what this environment is that causes cancer growth you know how does the bone get created so that the bone marrow that then gets created and again we're looking at cancer now not only from the genetic level but from the cell biological level so those are two highlights of the work we do mds and the work on bone and bone cancers but i'll let the rest of the panel speak about it further thank you sid dr kong you've been involved in your work in pediatric oncology for quite a while and have seen both the progress in the field till now and where it's going can you tell us a bit about this and in particular based upon where we are now how the new genetics are impacting your work and diagnosis and treatment of cancers today absolutely so in pediatric oncology the uh modern story of therapies really starts with the hallmark publication by dr sydney farber this was a publication in 1948 where he was able to show that the first chemotherapy agent identified aminopteryn was able to briefly induce a reduction in leukemia in kids with acute lymphoblastic leukemia since that time the subsequent 65 years the outcomes in kids with acute lymphoblastic leukemia has steadily improved to the point now where of all kids who present to us with acute lymphoblastic leukemia 90 of kids are now cured of their disease and so the narrative now is actually quite different where instead of talking about brief remissions our measure of success is really cure cure meaning forever now if you take all kids who come in with cancer currently the success rate is at 80 percent we cure 80 percent of all kids that come in with cancer that success i think is a strong counter narrative to those who would argue that we're losing the war against cancer the kind of success that has been demonstrated through the years really has been built upon research research that has taught us the cancer is not one disease but it is hundreds of different diseases it's built on research that has taught us that the way that we treat cancer must be to combine different drugs then act in different ways to target the cancer cells and it's predicated on research that has taught us that one size doesn't fit all that individuals that present to us with cancer must be treated in a way that's tailored to their individual disease and these are the precepts i think that underlie this modern concept of precision medicine in our own division as we treat our patients we are now at a point where every patient that we treat we actually fully sequence every gene in their body in every gene in their cancer that's 25 000 genes and we use that information currently in our clinical practice and what this has allowed us to do is start chipping away at the remaining 20 percent because we're not satisfied to be at 80 percent cure we want to chip away and get to 100 and so precision medicine in the future i think in pediatric oncology will allow us not only to do better in terms of outcome for those 20 that we currently don't cure but also i think it would allow us to approach the 80 that we do cure and start trying to decrease some of the toxicities that are associated incumbent with our current treatments and so i think this is a very exciting time for us in pediatric oncology where we've reached a certain level of success and with the evolution and the revolution of the precision medicine era i think we can do much better much better both in terms of outcome but also in terms of decreasing toxicity for those that we cure thanks andy now since we don't want to be at the mercy of the seven very angry women who wonder know why cancers haven't yet been cured dr slayman can you give us a sense of where this genomic revolution is impacting diagnosing treatment of adult cancers i think it's it's clearly made an impact on some cancers that we were previously treating with what has already been said by andrew just a few decades ago by a one-size-fits-all approach one of the things the whole revolution has changed is we thought of these cancers monolithically by the organ in which they arose so colon cancer was a disease lung cancer was a disease breast cancer was a disease perhaps we should have known by virtue of the fact that as physicians it's one of those moments where you hit yourself on the forehead and say why didn't i think of this before patients were having very different outcomes with these one-size-fits-all approaches and that wasn't due to good luck or bad luck good doctor bad luck doctor that was due to the fact that they had a different spectrum of diseases that as you saw in the wonderful piece that can bear put up there are genes multiple genes that regulate growth and depending on which genes are broken there are many pathways in the room many ways to convert a normal cell into a malignant cell and depending on what pathway has been taken that is what's driving that particular tumor and therefore one size fits all isn't the right approach you need to tailor the therapy to that alteration and that really is what's changed a lot about how we think about it and that sounds very logical now but i have to tell you it was a a pretty major change in thinking in oncology just a few decades ago and that really has brought us to where we are today thank you dr schwartz uh any uh thoughts to add about precision therapies in adult oncology with small molecules and then i'd also like to ask you what does this have to do with the immune system we've heard a lot in the past several months about the ability of immune targeted therapies to eradicate cancers are they different approaches do they intersect in some way and what does that offer for the future of patients with cancer so i've been a medical oncologist for 25 years and i've been able to see the whole evolution of this revolution in medical oncology as leading field of melanoma sarcoma we were able to show very early on that one gene in his case a gene called b raf was a gene responsible for half of all melanomas the discovery really made only seven or eight years ago in the field of medical oncology talk about the history of oncology it's a very short amount of time where these historic events have been discovered and once you have a gene in the case melanoma now we have a drug not just one drug but two drugs a block this gene called braf and actually you can get unbelievable responses both partial complete responses which when i started my field of oncology many years ago was just not possible same thing in a field called sarcoma that's the disease which we don't have great therapies but in fact there's 60 different diseases which we would have called one disease at a given time so with precision medicine we've made great strides going forward now as far as immunotherapy go goes as far as my field of melanoma i've been able to see the evolution of new targeted immunotherapy drugs it wasn't unusual as an oncologist for a patient to come to see me and say dr schwartz here are 20 different bottles which of these bottles can activate my immune system i go through them all and you know really none of them in fact would but it was discussion we always had with our patients we still do sometimes but about seven eight years ago someone came up with the idea that we can ask questions why is not our immune system turned on what what is it about our intrinsic immune cells called the t cells that have them off in fact there aren't diseases medical disease where immunity is on all the time uh they're called autoimmune diseases lupus ulcerative colitis what's interesting about those can those diseases normal not non non-malignant diseases that those patients don't get cancers so why is that well there's on their cell their t cell they have activated immunity so a fellow named jim allison uh went ahead and actually found that on the t cell this immune cell there is a switch that's off it's often every one of us is part of our nature natural innate ability not to have immunity on all the time now why is that if our immunity was on all the time our own body be finding our own normal organs and we'd all have autoimmunity and would be a big problem so dr allison discovered on the t cell the switch the first one was called ctla4 and he then found a drug that actually turned on the switch and by turning on the switch for the first time in medical oncology we saw diseases go away they were completely untreatable before including melanoma now unfortunately as you can imagine with the first switch being activated we had a lot of off side effects a lot of toxicity because we're creating a field of autoimmunity in the patient so now we have a second target called pd1 and pd-1 is more tumor specific not this global immune target that activates all of immunity and in the last several years we have now not one but two drugs that actually turn on the pd-1 switch and now again we're getting unbelievable responses in melanoma and now we have actual activity and many other cancers in fact you can think immune therapy is increasing to everybody it's not unique to melanoma sarcoma lung cancer it's an intrinsic part of our own body are known in need in the innate immunity i have a slide actually we can go to the slide so this is a patient actually with um with lung cancer on your on your left and what i'm showing you is a pet scan now a pet scan shows the activity of the cancer so every spot is the energy that cancer has it's not a ct scanner mine's going to show measurements of size we're looking at intrinsic energy of the cancer this is a patient with lung cancer it's treated with a pd-1 inhibitor that switch that's off by using this drug that blocks pd-1 we turn the switch on immunity gets turned on and i can see what happens the energy is gone the energy is gone because the cancer cells are dead this patient's in remission with a metastatic lung cancer and just last week this drug was approved for treatment of lung cancer so we're getting to see an evolution that expands all of oncology not just melanoma lung cancer you're going to see advances in head and neck cancer bladder cancer renal cancer breast cancer urological malignancies is just beginning and i can't begin to say sit back you're going to see an amazing time in ecology immunotherapy is here is going to transform us as much as we have transformed personalized medicine now i don't want to take too much time on this i can talk isn't it i see if i i can tell that i can i'm excited i'm excited um just one one last comment so integrating immunotherapy with gene therapy okay this is the next big can we bring it together well it turns out in a paper published just last week in science by one of our actual investigators of columbia the new discovery is that the the cell itself that's background dna which we thought was nestling we call the missense nonsense dna that dna actually seems to be the dna the tumor cells uses for the immune system and we're going to hear more about that background dna that we thought was nonsense dna as a critical part of the immune system and what the t the tumor cell again uses to actually protect itself from being recognized as foreign so we're going to hear more about that coming from big breakthrough news on ecology bring together genomics immunotherapy for the first time thanks gary we've been talking uh in the past few minutes about uh the impact of genetics and immunology and cancer treatment but i think as everybody in the audience knows one of the major issues of our time in the field actually is who doesn't need treatment we don't want to over treat individuals we want to pick out the patients who need treatment and those who don't and then tailor therapy or observation depending upon their own circumstance and i have the pleasure of um being able to ask dr corey abadi shen about her own work in this field because i think it's very exciting and is a harbinger of where we're going corey thank you i i want to say that i remember that colonoscopy and i cannot i remember watching it and i cannot imagine how many lives that this saved the bringing to bear the awareness and the importance of cancer screening i think has been transformative so now 15 years later we're at we're at a different juncture we're at the point of being able to identify many cancers at a very early stage in colon and prostate in breasts and now in lung and presumably in many other cancers along the way and so now we have a different problem the problem is who who do we treat and who do we not treat now this may seem like an embarrassment of riches but in fact it's not because if we treat too many patients or if we don't identify the patients that we really need to treat versus those that don't need to be treated at all and in fact it can be quite detrimental to live with the kind of uh you know treatments that are come to bear then we're in a different position of being you know forest through the trees which are the patients that we need to identify and so using a team-based approach and i think you know this is another thing that i think is a very important concept that your video brings to bear and also the stand-up to cancer effort brings to the front line is how important it is for us to work in teams across disciplines together collaboratively to tackle these very big problems and so my team that i'm here representing um uh has brought into the picture genetic approaches systems biology approaches uh medical oncology urology uh system and molecular biology to try to understand which prostate cancers have to be treated aggressively and immediately and which of the many many men would benefit from not being treated at all and so we developed a test that we're excited to be developing right now in which we have it's a very simple test in which we can look at biopsy samples and use immunostaining approaches to identify the t the cancers that are uh aggressive versus those that are essentially harmless and by using this approach we hope to be able to take the information from having early detection early screening and to be able to hone in on those patients that need to be treated aggressively while not harmlessly harmfully treating those that don't and i think this is going to be a very important approach that we've taken in prostate but will probably be used in many other types of cancers to really get at the the heart of it and and i've called this a precision prevention in fact so corey um is this just an approach you're thinking of developing or working we tested it how does it work we actually have uh uh uh two uh complementary biomarker panels so there's the good biomarkers and you want those and then there's the bad biomarkers and you don't want those so a really good cancer has a lot of this is actually staining what you're seeing here so the good cancers have the the good biomarkers and the and they don't have the bed biomarkers and the flip side is the reverse and in this very simple on off test uh we should be able to do that right now we're testing this we've uh we've introduced these uh this approach and we're testing it now uh and hopefully in a few years this will be a test that many men will be able to have access to please let me know dr nelson i wanted to ask you because you've been involved in the stand up to cancer efforts and you've been involved in many aspects of the treatment of cancers immunology genetics tell us about teams how important is it that groups work together both in institutions and between institutions because we're at this key juncture right now well i have had the privilege to work with these remarkable women in stand up to cancer and i have to say katie i am incredibly happy that i remember your colonoscopy much more clearly than my own but one of the remarkable things about this documentary is as we look at the history of cancer so vividly described in prose and now on film you can't listen to you can't read this you can't watch it without thinking about the future it amazes me that thinking about history drives you to think about where we're going so passionate and that's what these women and stand up to cancer were all about you saw the beginning of our understanding of the first gene that when corrupted and defective might lead to cancer and of course now we understand that cancers are fundamentally disorders of acquired defects in genes what's interesting going forward is that we now understand they're also acquired defects in gene function perhaps as many as a thousand of the 25 000 genes aren't available for use by the cancer let's put them in cold storage it's done something to to render them unavailable to protect the cancer cells against the their sheer abnormality and uh we call this cancer epigenetics and what's exciting moving forward is because of the advances made in cancer genetics we have tools to study epigenetic corruptions and they're beginning to be the the first glimpses of how we might treat to restore gene function one of the teams the really forward-looking teams from stanford cancer was an epigenetic stream team which delivered these kinds of treatments and it couldn't have happened without this coordination and collaboration across many researchers at many institutions i'm still disappointed that to to have my role and stand up to cancer on their scientific co-chairs i had to be fired from that team because i very much aspired to be on it but uh this epigenetic stream team has also driven us to begin to ponder just what dr schwartz is talking about can we use epigenetic treatments along with these new immune checkpoint inhibitors looks like there's great promise there there's great promise i don't think you can watch this film without seeing it thank you very much well i think you can tell from each of our panelists that we're all very excited to be at this time in cancer research and treatment there are amazing strides being made and it's just beginning i would open the floor to questions from our audience if any visitors from the press have questions they wish to ask about these or any other issues and now it's a great time so i think there's a circulating microphone please and please identify yourself yes um i was going to ask the panel you talked about the multi-disciplinary approach certainly on the academic and uh large institutional settings but how does that come to play in the community uh with some of these uh uh testing and biomarker testing and the targeted therapies uh what are you seeing in the community with multi-disciplinary approaches and testing for some of these genes gary want to take a crack at this i think there certainly are abilities now to do these types of dna analyses in the community there are foundations that are there you can pay to have these tests done a day will come everybody will need this done whether you're in an academic center in a major city or in the community every patient as part of their initial diagnosis just like doing a physical examination a chest x-ray or a cat scan part of that evaluation will include sequencing of the dna understanding the nature of the biology and finding the drugs that match that tumor in fact there's going to be a national effort starting the next several months under the direction dr varmus to screen several thousand patients across the united states community centers academic centers and there will be 20 to 30 clinical studies available in which the dna signature will match the drug and patients will enter these trials across the country to be the first attempted nationwide academic and community embrace targeted medicine therapy personalized medicine therapy for every patient in the united states it's a major effort huge financial support by the federal government we're participating every cancer center and community center can participate so to answer your question i think this has to be part of the community-based approach we're reaching out to the community make it happen our goal is to sequence sequence every patient with cancer has to be done it's highly informative gives information how to treat and without that information i'd say in this day of modern age with modern directed drug therapy you're not giving the patient the full information they need to make an informed decision on drug treatment yeah i should follow up on that by saying that dr kong talked about the strides that were made in pediatric cancer one of the causes for those strides was that almost every children a child with cancer in america has been treated on a clinical trial at a cancer center for the last 30 years the pediatric oncologist organized the entire nation all the pediatricians all the patients are referred in for initial diagnosis and at least for treatment planning and that's made an incredible difference we now through the intercession of the national cancer institute have the chance to do such a similar network of clinical trial opportunities in genomics for adults and it will be the only way for us to make progress is for patients and their physicians community to take advantage of this enroll those patients in the sequencing trials in the immunology trials and have their treatment planning and be done centrally and then distributed any other questions yes in the back if you have a drug specific for a tumor or certain cancer or you use gene therapy how would you target that to the tumor or the specific cell does it have to do with how you deliver the therapy or the drug or more the markers on the cell for example if it's skin cancer you don't want to you only want to get the skin in a particular area of the body does it have to do with drug delivery more or markers on a tumor or healthy skin cell hi denny so when you're delivering targeted therapy we have a lot more options than we previously had with by virtue of the fact that there are markers on cells to which we can direct antibodies and there's now new chemistry that allows us to conjugate toxins to those antibodies for a new therapeutic approach called antibody drug conjugates so it's not just the antibody alone or the drug alone but the fact that you've been able to combine them that allows you to produce a smart missile that will deliver to where the abnormal cells are depending on the markers on that cells they're markers as as gary's pointed out that we want the immune system to be able to recognize as well and it's an idea of how we may be able to combine some of these therapies so i think the horizon of how we do it and the technology we have available to us to do it has really exploded just in the last five years so you're going to be seeing a lot more of this but the idea is to target to what's broken in the tissues that are broken and allow normal tissues to be left alone thank you very much for filling out cards if you've got questions i'm going to read a few of these and ask our panelists to answer them so this is completely off scripted so you should enjoy this the first question is how rare are near-total success stories in the treatment of cancer like the so-called philadelphia chromosome and are these stories in the film sid because it's you know your film uh so if you really look across cancers we already heard some evidence they're really not rare they used to be rare they're becoming less and less rare and they're progressively not rare at all we see in our clinical practice uh near total success what's been called near total success stories i'll give you a couple of examples you know the the the time that it took from the identification of the braf mutation to the development of the first uh therapies against vraf was about three years um this was unthinkable a decade ago you could not imagine going from cancer to gene to targeted therapy in the course of three years and and you know the entire ecosystem had to change and everyone's part of that the change of the ecosystem all the way from important patient advocates who had wanted this for a long time to change the ecosystem so that we don't keep the brakes on the ecosystem cancer has enough brakes already so we we can't keep the brakes on our ecosystems that will support the development of new therapies and so everyone changed around it we brought that as a community brought that drug um and really we were following the example in pediatric oncology where you saw again and you know the so-called near-total successes reaching 70 or 80 percent of the patients uh with a combination of various strategies including now targeted therapies so i think they're not rare anymore um we just need to keep moving um and and the technology has to keep moving the science has to keep moving and we need all the advocacy efforts that we can get to keep keep that keep that going gary perhaps you want to comment about the progress in melanoma recently so yeah so for melanoma the as sid is saying with the identification of the braf mutation it was really historic discovery on the on the change of targeted therapy i guess the only thing i can add to that is that um the human body is interesting is that and the cancer cell's interesting so with these targeted drugs we always have to stay a step ahead and what i mean by that is that the tumor cell has a way of actually developing resistance to the drugs that's now the next big challenge is how do we overcome drug resistance because we think we're smart we identify the gene b ref we find a drug or two hits the gene cancer cells die patients go into remission seven eight nine months but also the disease comes back when this first happened to me seven eight years ago some of the first patients i treated was a horrifying event i saw cts and pet scans like that this is it i can hang up my hat i can give my field and then i'm done but it wasn't that simple and life of course is never that simple and there was eight months later patients started coming back through current metastasis so it turns out that the tumor cell has survival mechanisms um and every cell seems to develop a survival mechanism against these drugs then we have to add another drug on top of it we try to stay a step ahead so now in oncology we're trying to find what are the resistant mechanisms what drugs we can add to drugs to prevent the resistance from setting in can we keep extending that time interval where patients will benefit from targeted drugs and further advance the field of medical oncology and that to us now is one of the true obstacles we're we're learning how to deal with it we're finding ways because the molecular biology the science is showing us how to go forward in developing combinations to prevent that resistance which we're seeing question front good morning terrific panel uh ron wislow from the wall street journal um i'm wondering how you see uh the power of the science changing the mechanism the dynamics of clinical trials um you have i mean phase one trials are now um you're finding significant efficacy where you used to only look for a uh you know one or two or five or ten percent hit and um it just seems to me that there's pressure on the conventional way the trials are run that this science is putting on i i think it's a huge opportunity and i'll start and then i'll turn over our other panelists iran if you think of dr body shen's five gene panel where if three of those genes are on you may not need treatment at all but if two others are turned on then you will need treatment already if you design a clinical trial which only targets those patients who need treatment at all your chance of getting success sooner is much higher because you don't lose the signal on the noise and that's the incredible power of being able to parse different apparently similar looking tumor types into very different buckets whether the genetic causes are different it means the chances of seeing a benefit when it's going to exist are much higher in a much smaller percentage of patients much more number of patients and i think we're going to make progress much much sooner if patients enroll on the clinical trials nationally that distribute them to the right buckets so this becomes a communications effort on our part as well as a scientific effort on the part of the people who do the genetics and design the clinical trials other thoughts bill on that yeah i i think i think you're spot on in your view of how we're going to change the way we do clinical research in cancer medicine with these empirically discovered drugs right we knew that they killed cancer cells that was pretty much all we knew they all had the same property in cancer cells on a dish the more the drugs you put on the more cancer cells you'd kill so the clinical exercise became how much could you give someone and could you give it enough to kill cancer cells in the person without doing terrible damage and that era of people who participate in these clinical trials is amazing to me we have people with no other treatment options would participate in the old phase one trial the goal of which was to find the maximally tolerated dose and the dose limiting toxicity four percent chance looking back five percent at most of any meaningful benefit i actually saw one of the very first people to get the drug paclitax all marketed as taxol she had a tremendous response no one else did and now with these new targeted drugs we're only treating people who can expect to have a benefit we're going to use the dose to the dose needed to this defect the the defective enzyme or whatever is the result of the gene defect so we're not asking the maximal dose we're asking the maximally effective dose and this much more efficient time money and the human costs of the people who participate in these trials it's going to be very different i think so and i'm going to say that you will meet some of these pioneers not just the scientific pioneers but the patients who pioneered these therapies on film um because we wanted to we wanted to really highlight their stories because they participated as much in the process of bringing a medicine medicine that will impact millions of people to life by sacrificing their own lives taking risks that others wouldn't take and you will meet them and i and i really wish that they would become uh sort of etched in our in our national memory forever because their sacrifices are just as deep as other soldiers who fight for us in other places i'm going to say one last thing which is that you know we have tried as as a group of as humans really to counter every obstacle with a counter-obstacle we have countered every when clinical trials were insufficient we switched clinical trials around we invented new ways of making clinical trials when drugs caused resistance we looked for new ways we have met cancer point for point for point and we will continue to make cancer point for point for point but that requires a participation again going back to the aid of clinical trials that requires participation from everyone this is cannot be a one-sided project this is your disease as much it is my disease it will affect my children as much as it will affect your children we are all equally uh part of this story and so unless we get help from everyone we will not move this this story forward i mean you know we're we're performing this task with uh with progressively depleted troops um the the national will i think has gone out from under us at a moment when the response is striking and despite the fact that we have as a community change the fundamental way we think about cancer change the fundamental practice of cancer meeting point for point for point it is as if the will has been taken away from our whole effort um because of a kind of anemic situation both in funding and in in and in research uh research dollars we have now 20 less research dollars than we had before we knew very much about the cancer genome we cannot do the transformative work that we will do if we do not get the resources and these are not big resources to do the kinds of things that we want to do a graduate student in my laboratory wants to leave science uh the other day i heard of the story of a graduate who wants to leave science so that he can work for a company that enables us to get taxis better that is disruptive technology i mean it's we are living in an era of madness in which we have taken truly disruptive transformative technologies and cheapened them and we just can't do that anymore we'll ask thank you sid i want to follow up on that uh and get the panel's thoughts on one question that came from the audience uh which has to do with the potential dearth with cory's exception the rest of us are getting old on the panel and so we need to train the next generation of physicians and scientists who can carry on the fight when you know we're not able to how do we do that this is a complex field uh you heard from dr maniatis about trying to get a whole university involved any thoughts on what it's going to take to inspire the next generation of future physicians and scientists to work themselves in together and how should we train them corey yeah so i'm as you know very committed to training and very committed to the next generation and i think here again this is a community effort and we need the buy-in from the community to be involved and to be excited about what we do i think it was it's really exciting that all of you are here and excited to hear about what we do i hope the i think the the sids marvelous book brings very much to the table the important problems and the complexities and how motivated we all are and so i think that we can set the example from really getting educating people at all levels from the high school level i think that's a great place to start even from the grammar school level in fact we can have people understand what cancer is and why it's so important to study and i think naturally i would hope naturally that with that kind of motivation our students our postdocs would want to stay in science rather than work for camp companies because i think that this is really where the benefit is and you know i always tell my kids i can wake up in the morning and i can look myself in the mirror and i can be excited and proud of what i do and i think conveying that is a very very important thing so okay one uh i'm looking through potential questions from the audience and one thing that struck me is there's been um not confusion but there's been a duality of reference to what we're talking about and as you know the term precision medicine has been utilized so it's personalized medicine and i think the difference was enunciated most clearly recently by someone who pointed out that all good medicine is personalized that we may be precise in our diagnoses and in the therapies we offer but we're taking care of people and we want to take care of every individual as if they're our sibling or our parent so one of the questions that came up from audiences is how does palliative care fit into our work we don't cure every patient how do we maintain the right relationship with all of our patients and more respectfully is there any way in which these sorts of personalized precision approaches will actually even impact palliative care and symptom management thoughts from the panel dr schwartz i see you well it's an excellent question um clearly one thing we can lose track of with the field of personalized medicine and the science of medicine is a humanism of medicine i mean that's that can get lost in this big picture talk about the science behind the science there's a patient who comes to us for specialized care and we have to always be in touch with that patient and their own emotional needs and and the psychosocial needs of that patient is a complex thing being an ecologist it's not just being taking care of the the gene or the pathway or the immune system we're taking care of a person and that person we have to be part of we come that's part of that person's day-to-day life we become always part of their family and this extends not just from the time we can treat them to the time but to the time they die and it's it's a unique relationship between the oncologists and the patient i don't i don't think it exists in any other part of medicine um and then i guess is why people come to oncology you have to have special personalities and if you can't relate to the patient you probably shouldn't be a medical oncologist that being said the evolution of how we take care of patients who have advanced cancers has evolved greatly and are becoming more in tune to the needs that are unique and special clearly we have to do better on allocating resources to the to the pain process i think uh their whole programs now built around pain and palliative care uh each of us have cancer centers where there are whole programs where the specialists are being trained just how to manage cancer pain cancer pain is still a big problem patients have it all the time a lot many of them do and how to do that has how to take care of those patients with appropriate drugs and pumps and new sophisticated technology is becoming part of our practice but it requires specialists and money allocated to training of people who are physicians in in pain care how to deal with the dying patient is a is an ongoing issue i mean we find that patients are getting chemotherapy within the last two weeks of their life it doesn't make any sense we don't know how as doctors to deal with a dying patient is going to require an education how to re-educate ourselves how to talk to a patient relate to them and have us understand how they feel rather than continue to treat to the moment they're about to die so i think it's a great question steve i think we have a lot to learn about palliative care i think we're making great strides i think money is being invested people are being trained in it but as doctors we still need to do better about how to understand that part of our practice we can't treat to the very end uh we have to learn how to how to deal with that part of the patient's cancer life thanks carrie any more questions from our colleagues from the press oh katie thanks very much you know first of all thank you all for what you do uh we're so grateful for your intelligence and commitment and all these targeted therapies sound incredibly exciting but what strikes me is the toxicity has uh is still an issue you know i used to call chemotherapy sort of a scorch body approach where you kill everything hoping the healthy cells will grow back and the cancer cells will die where are we in terms of sort of these more elegant targeted therapies these kind of heat-seeking missiles who are that remain missiles and and are so destructive because i'm very interested in the field of secondary cancers actually caused by the treatments and other medical maladies that surface because of the successful often successful cancer treatments and i'm wondering if you can just talk about that or if there's any exciting developments in those arenas maybe denny you could address that yeah there certainly are okay i think you're you're on target the concept behind the targeted therapy approach was that you would be treating what's broken in the cell that converted it allowed it to convert from a normal cell to a malignant cell and therefore hit its achilles heel and in theory if you've done it right normal cells don't have that achilles heel they don't have what's broken so you should have a therapy that is a more effective and be less toxic now there's never a free lunch there's always some toxicities with any drug taken to largest levels but for many of the targeted therapies that's precisely what we've seen there's minimal side effects compared to what we're normally used to seeing as oncologists there's the adc drugs are talking about the antibody conjugates taking a drug like herceptin and linking it to the chemotherapy as opposed to administering it alongside the chemotherapy has made a big impact on safety in that women who are now getting that therapy no longer have the hair loss or the nausea the vomiting the the problems they had when we gave the antibody alongside chemotherapy as opposed to as an adc that's the first i think of many of these kinds of examples that'll have but it'll happen again and again um so i i think that there's a lot of excitement about the fact that we're going to be able to not only dial up efficacy but dial up efficacy well at the same time we dial down the safety concerns and the toxicities and that's really the ideal of of an ideally targeted therapy i just wanted to add katie as you know one of the wonderful things that's been happening is we've generating so many more cancer survivors they're accumulating 14 15 16 million or more we have to think a lot about the precision medicine of cancer survivorship corey and i have been in the prostate cancer field for a long time it's wonderful a man diagnosed today with prostate cancer 97 of them or something are still alive five years later the actual largest threat to that man's life today is diagnosed with prostate cancers you might have a heart attack well here's the the the conundrum one of our most commonly used treatments increases his chance to have a heart attack that may not be the perfect way to use that treatment and we're changing the way we use it by thinking about the whole person and how one person is different than another and the incursion of these new technologies into that question is going to make this much easier to sort out i think i would add that you know i think a lot of times when we think about sequencing and precision medicine that is cast in the light of directing us to drugs that we can use or should use but precision medicine is also about knowing what drugs not to use and so if if it's the example for example that corey had brought up in terms of surveillance knowing when to treat when not to treat but even in a patient who presents to us with cancer that we know we have to treat i think the precepts of precision medicine in our own experiences taught us that the information that we get in some cases is very important in telling us not to give a particular type of toxic treatment because the data that we're getting tells us it's not going to work and so uh and so i think precision medicine really has the potential to impact not only in terms of guiding where to go but where not to go thank you sid why don't you wrap this up for us uh it's been a great session i think we given you a sense of the excitement of our field and where we're going in specific areas uh the incredible role of communications like this film in reaching uh patients and families uh throughout the nation to understand what we do for funding support and for uh enrolling clinical trials in the appropriate fashion uh so here we are sid i'm just going to take one last minute you know since the declaration of the war on cancer we have needed uh for the last four decades a report card um a report card that says here is where we are here's where we're going and here here's what happened happens next uh we have tried in uh in this film to generate that report card and it's not just simply giving a grade it is telling a story it is telling a story that combines every human resource including every aspect of ingenuity to direct against a disease that affects each and every one of us i would just urge all of us to watch the report card and if you are not moved by the ingenuity if you're not moved by the resilience tell us what to do next thank you thank you very much

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 6hISge0PUXM (https://youtu.be/6hISge0PUXM) ===

[Music] hello good evening and sorry for the slight delay it's time for the Express ad again and a lot of you are familiar with with a are purchased for those who aren't it's the express groups own way of pulling in people of interest calling people who have who are doing things who are in the process of doing things which have a fundamental impact on our lives and some really fundamental things you know some of our guests are very special we bring you we brought you actors we brought you musicians politicians some former presidents of India I've been here and with every guest we hope to interact to chat with them to draw them out and essentially sort of leave this place a little wiser a little more informed than we are at the start of it and it's a pleasure today to welcome dr. Siddharth Mukherjee to add a very warm welcome Siddharth dr. mukajee is based in the u.s. now he's an oncologist he's a physician he's a researcher he's a scientist and perhaps best known for for most of us here and outside for his Pulitzer winning tribe oook on cancer the the biography of cancer and more recently the book Jean and intimate history but other than that he's a Rhodes Scholar he's an associate professor of medicine at Columbia yeah all right so I'll cut cut that and essentially what interests us with dr. mukajee is of course his path-breaking fundamental research that he's engaged in his ideas on you know the history of medicine that he talks about the history of the disease and the work that he does which is attacked the boundaries of medicine science and culture so we hope to explore some of those intersections and things in our conversation with him and what's also really interesting with dr. mukajee is for a lot of us who are trapped in this binary of science and humanities so you know he's in some sense is the perfect bridge and we hope that you will help us on that journey of a lot of us were non specialists and do things so may I request my colleague pyrometer Chakravarthi to kicked self Thank You Seema I'm going to start the conversation dr. mukajee by asking you about your writing you've had a lot of very insightful books from writers like Oliver Sacks of course Atul Gawande Paul Calliope what does writing mean to you is there some sort of a release first of all thank you for inviting me can I be heard in the back yes no yes okay great so for me the writing is a form of thinking I write to think some people think to write I'd like to think it is a mechanism for me to lay down on a page and organize by laying down on the page some ideas about who we are some ideas about where we're going and perhaps the illuminating thing that we've discovered actually virtually all physician writers have discovered is that in fact medicine allows you to do this in a way that virtually no profession does no other kind of calling does the intimacy that you can share with the intimacy that you can share with what it means to be a human being today now that intimacy is extraordinarily revealed my medicine not ordinary revealed but extraordinarily revealed my medicine and we've in becoming writers we're really sort of exercising all of us from Oliver who passed away as you know last year certainly me Atul Gawande Pokal Anita who also sadly as you very well know passed away we're all trying to explore the same kind of questions that any writers are trying to explore I think questions about who we are what is it like to be to have a particular intimacy with with dying what is it like to live what does it feel like what does it mean what does it feel like to heal what what it was it feel like when you fail to heal what is it like when you encounter some wonderful wondrous thing about nature what if what are the limits of knowledge like what are the why we fail in knowledge what are the lacunae in human knowledge were the consequences of losing sight what do they feel like to have wisdom and what does it feel like to fail in having wisdom so what's interesting is these questions of course fundamental you know the fundamental they're I mean obviously they the physician writer of all physician writers Chekhov began with these questions and he became a novelist it turns out that the richness of medicine allows us to ask all of these questions all the time and that's that's my process really dr. mukajee perhaps every generation sort of feels that they're the cusp of something really big and you know this is finally going to be the moment when sci-fi films and novels and everything will come true but is there something special about today's times in our times with AI with genetics with a whole range of things happening that we are actually at that moment where it'll probably never be the same again well so I think I'll tell you what what the special features for this generation are and I'll tell you I mean whether they become you know whether this generation draws a strong line in the sand or doesn't is not relevant to me what I'll tell you what the special features are because they are indeed quite special one is that over the last four or five years we've acquired technologies to change and interrogate not just change but to interrogate the human genome with a kind of facility that we didn't have before in other words that two things that are coming out of this one thing is that we were struggling as you very well know we were struggling in medicine in biology in the sciences to explain the nature of human variation why do you look different from from me why is your biological feature medical fate different from mine why does a young woman have breast cancer another young woman does not why does my child suffer from one business another child does not we knew that there were genetic components they're not the only components we knew they were powerful genetic components to this but we didn't know what those components were we now are beginning to know those components and often they might have not one gene but may have a hundred may have 200 and our computational power our knowledge our power of knowledge was at its at its very limit but we seem to have now crossed into a new arena of limits I call this reading the process of reading it's simultaneously exhilarating but very dangerous and I've written about its dangers I will come to that in a second there's a paper published about a month ago which uses AI alcapurrias in a second but uses AI and genetics to predict human height this was unpredictable before we had we knew that height was highly heritable that in fact we knew that obviously tall parents tend to produce tall children shorter parents tend to produce short children this has been observed since time immemorial but there was no algorithm that would allow us to predict the height of a child or a person based on genetic information alone I should say this this only applies when you lift away environmental constraints such as nutrition so in I should say that in nutrition replete societies there was no algorithm that would predict human height this paper basically as of the last six to eight weeks predicts human height based on genetic information alone - about half a cent so you could say well do we really care about this absolutely we care because you could now predict as an academic exercise you could predict your unborn child's height and you could say well do we care about that absolutely we care because the next step is you could predict your unborn child's features you could predict your unborn child's hair color and slowly you begin to edge into territory that's morally quite dangerous you could predict their future risk of illness you could predict their future risk of having a neurodegenerative disease you could predict the future risk of them having autism these are all heritable illnesses moderate to marginally heritable and there seems to be no limit as long as the features are heritable we seem to have be able to capture that information using genetics and computational technologies including AI that's reading writing takes a deeper step into the into the what I call the exhilarating abyss of human biology writing means that we also have the capacity just begin to change the information you can now again based on technologies discovered about five to six years ago which we are using a lot in our own laboratories we're doing is actually daily we're changing human genetic information we can change now on really on demand I should say we can change on demand I think it's not an exaggeration to say virtually any gene of choice in the human and we can probably change it in a human embryo probably more than one any gene of choice we can certainly delete jeans you can inactivate a gene like Braca one which will in a human embryo or or a sperm producing cell or an egg producing cell you can almost certainly delete a gene that might predispose you to breast cancer by the end of next year we will begin to know how easy or difficult it is to replace them deleting is not a problem replacing it completely with the new information is is a threshold we're about to cross that threshold you can decide whether that's a line in the sand or not I think it is so that's writing reading writing and the third piece you referred to is AI you know a I was AI is a complex view they're written about it recently quite extensively I wrote a big piece in The New Yorker about it's been widely circulated quite quoted I have some strong reservations about it but as far as AI is concerned this will give you very quickly what what the field refers to what it means so in AI we are using we're learning to use algorithms in computers that us simulate or are similar to the nature of human learning now how does a child learn to recognize or discriminate between a dog a wolf and a cat importantly you don't give a child a rulebook you don't say this is the rules of dog this is a rules of cat this is the rules of wolf right that's not how a child learns a child learns through an experiential process in which they're exposed to these three categories and they learn to bin animals based on some features into category of dog wolf and cat they make mistakes you correct them and this process iterates over and over again and through the iterative process of feature recognition learning algorithms in our brain we think this we don't know this learning algorithms in our brain begin to attach what you might describe as connection weights weights and connections if the snout is this long it should be up in the dog and wolf category versus the cat category if the ears are this long and if it's combined with some other features so children basically then extract from images features and they use these features to build a kind of neural map and network and they organizes information not based on a rulebook as I said they don't tell you rules for dog and cat in fact if you query the child again and say well what are the rules that define dog versus Catholic often can't tell you they can't say here are the rules snout has to be 117 centimeters ears after me bla bla bla a child won't be able to do but that child knows exactly how to bin dogs cats vs. wolves now imagine building a computational architecture which captures knowledge in this manner our old computational architectures were based on rulebook kind of learning we would tell computers here a set of rules and computers were very good at it they could organize sets of rules and if you gave them rules if you gave them a kind of if-then-else statement if it has ears and it has hair and this happens it must be a dog if it's this color it must be that bla bla bla bla bla bla but in in with deep learning and with neural networks you don't supply the rules you supply experiences you supply a mechanism for the machine to acquire its own knowledge structure and overtime just like a child learns we think the machine learns in the same way now the interesting thing about it is that just like a child learns and then begins to use that information in powerful ways you can present it with complex problems the child and the child can now start solving the complex problems just based on its heuristic or experiential learning the machine can do that too so to give you an example coming back to the height human height problem the machine was really fed were all that really was fed into the machine was the genetic information of five hundred thousand or seven hundred thousand individuals and what their actual Heights were and the Machine figured out really by itself in a process that's opaque to us the Machine figured out how to correlate a particular genetic combination with the height now you can imagine what else we could do with this it could figure machine could figure out for instance whether you're related or unrelated in other human being just like a child can figure it out but now you begin to you now you begin to talk about the exhilerating of this on one hand you can do powerful things for instance predict a woman's risk of breast cancer man's risk of prostate cancer potentially treat them before they have the cancer these are powerful wonderful things to have on the other hand you could do things that are that edge towards morally ethically complex territory you could ask machines to figure out by themselves how to profile human beings you could ask them to figure out things that we are uncomfortable with classify us classify faces search the web and find information about ourselves which we are not willing to disclose otherwise search our searches and figure out things psychometrically about us that we're not willing to disclose otherwise which we have which happened recently as you very well know in the news search this room as we sit and figure out in its with its own metrics who the wealthy are and who the non wealthy are and target something to the wealthy versus a non wealthy and so forth I can keep giving you examples that are more and more and more make us more and more and more deeply uncomfortable so if I were to identify three technologies drive cars if I were to identify three technologies or two technologies two arenas where we're drawing strong land lines in the sand about what human future looks like it would be reading and writing genes and it would be artificial intelligence and just to finish up it's the combination of these two things it's when computers begin to read us when we rather than becoming the supervisors become the subjects of our robot overlords when we become the subjects that's when I suspect for all of us that's when our level of discomfort rises and let it be clear we are already the subjects this line has already been crossed we saw it recently politically in the in the news that's been circulating everyone knows about Cambridge analytical that is the first step of using humans as subjects of deep learning let me emphasize again we could see how powerful this could be in medicine we are now actually our laboratory in collaboration with other laboratories is building a way to survey prostate cancers using just computational technologies alone so I'll give you an example in cancer we get biopsies we read the biopsies and we say you know this looks obviously this is cancerous but this looks like a less aggressive cancer we could read another biopsy and says you know say you know this is still a cancer this looks like a very aggressive cancer obviously we will treat a man or a woman with the aggressive cancer differently and the man with the woman at the end of then cancer differently but we don't do very well we don't do very well our capacity is still quite limited what if we big what if we allowed what if we fused our brains with our computational technologies and it would allow us to discriminate between the aggressive and the non aggressive cancers in a much more powerful way we would be able to our sophistication enable to being able to treat men and women children with cancer would be vastly increased this is what we're trying to do imagine I often give the example of this pathologist who typically reads your specimens when you train a young pathologist I'm a young man a woman in your training in pathology she begins with a case study of zero right the first case that she reads moves from case study of zero to case study of one a computer an algorithm when it it begins with a case study of 500 million right because you've fed already and the next case is 5 million and 1 so if you had to pit the skills of one versus the other you can imagine which one I would choose we aren't there yet but we are feeding as we speak actually while we do this in out in Seattle we are feeding about a thousand specimens into into algorithms to see so they'll they'll start with a thousand it'll go to ten thousand will go to a million and then we'll see we all believe I think thoughtful people working in the field believe that these that human intelligence allows us to do things that these computational technologies just don't have we can we identify until now we identify exceptions better than we identified rules humans are very good at identifying exceptions humans can push red buttons when computers cannot push red buttons we think but it's hard to know things might change in the near future to make quick one before paramita scares the bejesus out of everyone is you know you said that you're already we're already reading and doing the writing as well right and you're in a position to do that are we in a position to change things for a set individual or have you reached the point where you can do it when the information will be transmitted across generations - so can we edit away some things completely yeah so that's an important distinction it's a bright line distinction so there are two kinds I would say if you're talking about genetic changes genetic engineering there are three arenas that need to be distinguished and it's important to think about the three arenas separately obviously technology moves between them but they're three arenas and every time someone talks about genetic technologies engineering we should divide it up into three arenas so the first tourney now I'll call somewhat jokingly I'll call all other species the rest of them that's a little bit like saying that you know the world is divided into cows and non cows but but the induce thing to say that's right exactly well that's why I said it but but but this there is the whole arena of all other species the reason I'm saying this is that they're our interventions have already started and they are the in in in in those species the attempt is to change the species in a way that's permanent and that's transmittable so for instance this month or next month in florida we will start doing genetic engineering on mosquitoes and before you throw up your hands and alarm remember that mosquito-borne illnesses are devastating to human populations malaria dengue West Nile virus chikungunya horrible things I'm told that the I'm told that the mosquito is the one animal or insect that has no purpose aside from being a human pest I don't know if that's true or not I don't know how we would know but I don't know how we would know all of a sudden you know there's a famous butterfly effect you know you just you make the mosquitoes disappear and in three generations we're gone as well but but we're certainly going to change mosquitoes and those will be released into the wild in fact they're being released probably in the next month or so in the wild in Florida they're contained in an island but that's happening so by all other species I mean mosquitoes I mean crops I mean fish all these species are open for potential genetic engineering with in in in in large part many technologies have to be breached but the fundamental problems are tractable they're not solvable immediately but the fundamental problems lie within tractable reach the main danger is of course in doing that our ecological so the main dangers are biohazard and the main concern there is human humility we should be humble about our knowledge or lack of knowledge of the ecosystem we want to make changes in the ecological world for good reason I suspect we could go horribly wrong so we have to have some mechanisms to tell us to remind us how to keep those practices safe we could choose not to do it at all by the way that's all other species the second category is what has been called a throughout a technical word but it should you should know it and then talk about the word so it is somatic gene therapy so ma somatic refers to the body refers to the human body so here we are making trying to make genetic changes in cells which are not permanently moved to the next generation so let's say you change an individual someone has a blood disease a genetic disease in the blood sickle cell anemia beta thalassemia and/or other organs tay-sachs disease cystic fibrosis etc Huntington's disease here the changes are made in cells there are some limitations of technology sometimes you have to find a way to do it in many cells but fundamentally speaking these changes are not transmitted to the next generation the danger there the main danger there are the some technological limitations but the main danger there is what I would call biological hazard or unintended consequences what if in doing so you create a cancer create a leukemia create in blood create a different kind of cancer and in so FAR's actually that it has not been the case with these new technologies it's actually been shockingly safe from the standpoint of having an unintended effect on the genome what happens down the road we don't know because these have just been one year we're just about two three years into human into human beings the third arena is obviously the most complicated and that is so all of the species somatic engineering third one's called germline engineering and here you are changing not just any cell in the body but cells that make sperm cells that make eggs or embryos themselves and here the bright line distinction is whatever change you make will be transmitted across multiple generations the technological barriers are high but solvable the hazards are obviously the bio hazards but now there are strong moral hazards should we be playing with our own genomes we certainly haven't done it in the past should we have some humility in the face of the capacity to change our genetic information could we have a profound effect on our selves as a species is this way we did to self-determine our future should we stop now so an International Committee there will be not one but there will be several probably dozens of international committees that will meet but the first International Committee met or one of the first international committees met in about April last year coincidentally actually I didn't even notice but it was coincident with the gene coming out as a book and coincidentally very much in line with what I had proposed in the gene they and surprisingly this committee said that in fact the first human experiments with this kind of genetic change would be permissible so at least off the gate as it were we are we have just opened that door we have said that if there is a disease which involves extraordinary human suffering that word is very important extraordinary human suffering if there is a disease that involves truly extraordinary human suffering that we should be allowed as human beings as scientists as people who think we should be allowed to tamper with the genetic information in a permanent way to erase the propensity for the disease I had proposed a couple of mild encourage you to read what I wrote in in the gene it's also been published as articles etc etc I had proposed that we should have a couple of more criteria not just extraordinary suffering but at least a criteria that this be done in societies where there is no moral coercion that this should be done in societies where we have some deep idea that individual freedoms exist and there is no state mandate to do this that is obviously a slippery criteria there you can imagine that you know you can ask yourself do you live in a course of society I don't know maybe you do you're your own feelings about what coercion is what mandates are may not be written on in law but may be acting through passive social connections we've seen that happen in other countries and the danger actually I would encourage you to read this section in the gene it also encouraged if you're deeply interested I would encourage you to go read the report it's available online it's called the institution of Institute of Medicine report on human genetic or genomic engineering it's available online it's a long document if you're dying lis interested you should read the last three or four pages of it but it last three or four pages the author's there was a list of about 50 authors I'm involved with a new one of new ones that are that is coming out about 50 or authors wrote as the first document they said that that they have real concerns about human humility as I said before their real concerns about our humility and that they have real concerns about creating a culture where we extinguish diversity in the name of progress that they have very strong concerns about this particularly in societies where either there's a state mandate to bear a certain kind of child or very important in the Indian context or there is a personal mandate or a societal mandate which is passive no one talks about it isn't in law but we live in a country as you know very well we're already a grotesque eugenics project has occurred and I'm talking about female infant side or female neglect in if you leave this auditorium and travel a few hundred miles from here you could be in a place where there are 750 women to a thousand men profoundly abnormal human ratio it has never been in human history that we have created societies where there are 800 women to a thousand men it's something to be ashamed of it is something to be conscious of but let it be said that you don't require at least in this one in this case you did not require a state mandate to drive a human population across three four five generations into a into a pathologically of normal States there's no state mandate in fact our state mandates do not do this so I not only echo the concerns that the report had I would say in the context of countries where there are passive mandates I would I find them extremely disturbing I'm going to take a step back here and ask you something with all the progress that is being made in modern medicine do you feel that as a society we are becoming averse to the idea of accepting death as the logical end you know I think that's but you know this has been debated a lot I think certainly a series of physician writers including me but I told go and they famously most recently oliver paul colony 'they have tried to remind us to keep a certain sense of moral balance personal balance between understanding the progress medical progress that's been made and balancing it against things like dignity around death in fact what's interesting about it is that in a in in the united states is often caricatured as a country where people are unable to accept that in fact the use of hospice in the United States has increased our understanding of palliative care has actually deepened among the young and the elderly in the United States so I think imagining societies where progress in medicine is portrayed in an adversarial relationship with dying with dignity is certainly possible we know such societies exist we can we've certainly seen them but it's also possible I think to imagine societies where progress within medicine is not in an adversarial relationship with dying that in fact these two things can coexist and we'd like that to be India I think we'd like that to be this country we would like this country like many others to have a non adversarial relationship with medical progress accepting its ideas accepting what can be done accepting the capacity to relieve extraordinary suffering but on the other hand also allowing enough space for people young and old to have dignity around dying I think that's possible to do it's harder to do it's the adversarial relationship is easier to come by you know I'm trying to live don't don't force me to die that adversarial relationship is easier to come by you can imagine it more easily but there's certainly attempts since I would say successful attempts to have to hold both the ideas at the same time we're trying to do I'm an oncologist it's something I try to achieve it's not always possible to achieve in your own head the the two angels battle each other constantly but I suspect for individuals when when those two angels have finished their mutual battle you can often find a resolution for an individual you mention oncology is you an oncologist dr. mukajee and your first book which really kind of touched a chord and you you did a biography of the c-word I mean people were so hesitant to even talk about cancer it was touching more lives than it ever did or that we were aware of and you said something very interesting that cancer is probably very different from several other diseases in the way that it kind of is a shadow of our evolutionary path or you know the human body itself so would you just take us a bit through that thought about what makes cancer so difficult and at the same time so interesting to grapple with as an oncologist or as a doctor well this has to do with this site with has to do with the idea that more than really any other disease this could be true for other diseases more than any other disease the fundamental mechanism of cancer builds on vulnerabilities in our physiology as humans which are fundamental to being human in other words the very process is the very genes that allow us to become who we are to grow to repair our wounds to heal ourselves after we're injured corruptions of those very genes allow us also enable cancerous growth this is a very important idea to drive vomits of course on one hand a biological idea of course it has philosophical and metaphorical consequences but the consequences are very clear it is that there is no free lunch in the human genome that in fact there are trade-offs and the trade-offs between growth the natural trade-off of growth is a one natural trade-off of growth metabolism our capacity to be multicellular all the things that make us who we are our capacity to resist the depredations of the environment of injury if you just flip them over as if it were a card inevitably lead to cancerous growth and its consequences are felt across have already been felt in the West for certain populations they are being felt in India there is no doubt in my mind that cancer will reach what you might consider epidemic proportions in India because of cancer appears in the double negative it appears when other diseases such as infectious diseases vanish in the United States as we've made important milestone or landmark conquests against other diseases up came cancer and there is absolutely no we can already see it we can there's absolutely no doubt that this will happen in many countries around the world you might be surprised to know for instance that in places like I know this data for Tanzania where you would imagine that the most that the biggest killers were infectious diseases those curves are rapidly shifting the biggest killers are becoming hypertension cancer heart disease diabetes dementia all these illnesses that you know we didn't grow up really thinking about perhaps but have become very much much part of our lives I would wager to say that in your parents generation in our parents generations it still was the c-word in our generation people who are sitting in this audience I will guarantee it that you know someone in your immediate one step away who has been touched or killed by cancer this is the new epidemiology of what is happening in all parts of the world India has the third highest number of cancer patients among women after China and us are women more susceptible to cancer no that's not true so you know if you look at susceptibility numbers they arranged it there's a wide range of susceptibility numbers but for women and men you know the incidence of cancer just how often you get cancer often cancer Rises ranges in the United States between one and three one in two and there it really depends on the subtype or the or that's really the subtype um the epidemiology is quite different in women it's driven really by breast cancer and other cancers that are common to men in men it's driven by many other cancers including prostate and lung but there's a wide shared connection so cancers off head and neck colon rectum etcetera etcetera are obviously common to both um but I would say overall I mean there are certain epidemiological differences maybe there's obviously certain risks I mean prostate cancer is a male disease breast cancers mainly for the most part of female disease men also get breast cancer rarely but the numbers are not so out of comparison that that you have specific susceptibility does it concern you dr. mukajee when you come back to India given our levels and state of Public Health that yep sorry what we can expect with cancer kind of getting to the proportions that you've outlined it may get to we hear about the NHS being able to cope with some degree of success with this and you know other systems may be Cuba I don't know about the you know more about the there's more about the US but what worries you more about say perhaps the near absence of public health policies or processes in India to cope with this well the the range again if you think about cancer you have to think about in different categories or buckets and if you fail to do that you can get very confused and really the importance is to not get confused so the the cancer begins with prevention cancer prevention that's the mainstay of cancer therapy and the mainstay there is that is a that is a powerfully that is driven by public health and virtually all successful attempts at cancer prevention have been attempts by governments this isn't this is far from a privatized enterprise it has to have certainly NGOs and advocacy groups can help but the real onus falls on governments so in the in India and other places cancer prevention begins with limiting carcinogens tobacco is the main one mainstay of them rampant in India very poorly controlled and we know from a whole load of epidemiological data that it can be controlled there's nothing endemic about tobacco control you can actually do it large nations have been successful in doing it the effect on human populations has been vast so but it has to be done it has to be political will to do it which is clearly lacking so far here so attempts have been made but they have to be really capitalized other examples of cancer prevention include some degree of success in vaccination there are viral cancers of which human papillomavirus is probably the largest most common that we can vaccinate against and as you know very well despite many efforts vaccination for women against human papillomavirus in this country efforts have stalled I think that's a that's a shame because this the deaths from cervical cancer I mean I treated many many women with cervical cancer those are many preventable deaths it's a real embarrassment and the rejection of science medical science is a real embarrassment you know science is not fake news it is real news for people the rejection of of this based on rather flimsy criteria I would say is a real embarrassment and I hope that this gets redressed and turned around no vaccination is going to be without some degree of collateral effects that doesn't exist for any vaccination but most vaccine for the last for the large part are safe and in this case they have the capacity to prevent disease so I think that would be one example so there's the bucket of prevention the onus generally falls on public enterprise the second arena which is really tends to be a public-private collaboration as it were is in early detection of cancer so-called secondary prevention or primary prevention sorry second prevention in which you try to detect cancer early we have not been phenomenally successful at doing this mammograms are helpful but they don't really have an massive impact that's not to say that you shouldn't be getting mammograms it just is to remind us that those technologies have fundamental limitations we're trying to get better in fact the AI genomics examples I told you are trying to use that information to find out who's likely to be benefit from a mammogram who's where will be likely to find the most dangerous cancers etc we don't do very much of this at all in India it's actually quite we're quite quite further behind even nations like Cuba where there's a lot of early detection has actually taken off quite quite well the third branch of the third bucket is treatment this is an arrow it's a funneling system of course we want to treat the fewest prevent the most and here of course it is without saying that we really lack the infrastructure we don't train oncologists I don't know how many oncologists we train what's the number how many oncologists are we training in India per year send you how many oncologists are we training in India per year hundreds 200 300 cancer doctors where the need is on the order of several thousand actually so there are some so all of this our capacity to give therapy appropriate therapy for cancer is limited by all of this and again people say gosh you know how can we train people in this medical field it's too expensive just to remind you tamoxifen is available act really at a price which makes it just as affordable as an infectious as an anti-infective agent as an antibiotic and its effect on breast cancer can be transformative tamoxifen is a cheap drug not every drug is not every cancer drug is not every kind of cancer therapy is but tamoxifen is valued of care for cancer forget about treatment morphine is a cheap drug but you can barely get it in India when my father passed away last year in October I went from doorstop to doorstop from pharmacy to pharmacy trying to relieve his pain with morphine I could not find I can I could go to the United States it would take me all of 15 minutes to myself write a prescription for an opioid fentanyl morphine etc it would take have taken me 15 minutes to relieve his pain as he lay dying it I went from doorstep to doorstep with the prescription I couldn't find pain relief to save his life they said you know give him tylenol and ibuprofen so that's that's a problem we need to solve that problem we've approached actually we've approached through several sectors through several ways we approached the Prime Minister about this if we want to have a proper portfolio of ways to treat cancer we absolutely need chemo therapeutic drugs we need infusion centers we need ways to give patients the medicines but we equally and absolutely need real palliative care and we cannot get real palliative care without opioids it is a disservice to human beings had a neck cancer you know invading their teeth breast cancer that's advanced with metastases you just cannot be know these medicines are cheap these are have been available for decades yes is there a risk of a you know addictive problems yes absolutely have those risks being serious yes absolutely in the United States they have been serious in other countries of the world but but the but the NHS just to give you one example other countries coming back to Cuba have done perfectly well treating pain severe pain not just cancer related in my father's case it was related to his decline and dementia doesn't have to be cancer related but end-of-life care requires morphine and it's analogs and giving end-of-life care in 2018 without morphine is an embarrassment so we'll right we'll try again we'll write to the prime minister again we have as I say we I have done this myself I will try again reminding ourselves that there are dangers this is not a this is not a free-for-all but there are several nations that have managed to do this without falling into the trap of releasing addictive substances among generally young people who don't should not have access to those addictive substances clearly dangerous but there are several nations that have threaded that needle successfully and really I mean in 2018 we should not be treating the elderly in palliative methods with ibuprofen know one of the things that you said so that was very interesting that it's time to not take science as fake news you know it's not fake news we've had a series of kind of events in India as well you know statements by people in power people are responsible for Science and Technology Policy who you know they've contested Arvind in the most incredible of ways I mean I'm sure there's a case for doing that but it's happened kind of very on-the-fly in in the US as well there seems to be you know means science has fake news seems to have a new lease of life so what do you do when people who are in policy who are in positions of power are almost taking a completely different position from what they should be to the science establishment and then you have all these changes happening and as you said we're the cusp of very fundamental change or the coming together of many technologies so what's the we I don't know I'd you tear your hair out and you I mean what were you supposed to do you use you hope to use reasoned dialogue to remind people that there is a that this is a long conversation it is a conversation that has been going on in human history for now all known human history the capacity to use reason for human emancipation but the capacity to use reason to interrogate nature to understand nature has been going on for a long time and that we won't let them interrupt this conversation and deviate this conversation it's not fair to us as humans of course there are all sorts of problems we know that unleashed in the wrong direction there have been excesses it's important to acknowledge those excesses and not swipe them under the carpet it's simple to talk about them it's important the lessons from them in fact one way that both the both my books can be read are is to remind ourselves about what the what those excesses were and could have been we've seen them in cancer we've been seen them in eugenics had encouraged people to read the chapter on eugenics and rima and remind ourselves that these impulses are very fundamental their impulses are in fact present in virtually every country certainly present in India so so on one hand to remind people that this these are important to err to understand but on the other hand also not allow people to deviate or to take over a conversation that has gone on in humans uninterrupted that's one of the wonderful things about the Natural Sciences is that when you use the term force you are using the term force in exactly the same way that Newton Newton used the term force 400 years ago when you use the term volume when you use the term cancer we are trying may not be true for cancer but we're trying to use the term exactly the same way that someone used it 300 years ago name one word or name a few words outside the context of science where you know that you're using the word today in exactly the same way that someone used it 300 years ago they're few such words Innings language and that tells you when the conversation is successful you can talk to someone who's been dead for 400 years as if they were sitting the room you could have a conversation with Newton you could say I'm gonna use the word force and you will understand exactly what I mean and therefore I can converse with you across 406 what I use the word triangle you and I will have no debate about and I can talk to Pythagoras what other discipline allows you to do this so it is important not to interrupt this conversation it is a powerful conversation it has errors that support to acknowledge the errors but it's probably the most beautiful conversations we've ever had across multiple generations that's not to say that they're all that the that when words change meaning they can also be quite beautiful that different essentially faith in science can coincide you've written about Mendel whose spiritual quest did not hamper his scientific inquiry in the in Mendel's case they coincided it's not clear to me that they can coincide today actually I'm afraid that's not close becoming less and less clear it depends on what faith you have by the way what about you you know I've become by me personally speaking I've been agnostic for a while and become progressively more agnostic I I have an interest in helping people I'm interested in and personally speaking I'm interested in small metaphysical question I'm not interested in large metaphysical questions okay I will fail you agnostic but you know it's not a cop-out yeah it's a cop-out you know what what am I supposed to say I mean what's the what's the what's the opposite of a cop-out here what's very agnostic what's the we'll describe to me what the opposite of a cop-out would be I don't know what the opposite of cop-out is we all into something again we kind of opt into something rather disbelieve with ferocity or we believe why'd you have to opt into sometimes not clear to me okay I would go test you on that you can I am an agnostic after all no there's a wonderful article you tweeted I think it was this month where I think you kind of spoke also about the article which you wrote about your father's last a few days and you described some of the morphine journey and the other things that you dealt with this particular article talks about of course you know in the quest of you know when you're near laboratory and you're looking for the gene there is this thing that we are looking for the gene for this and the gene for that and this describes the other side of you know I mean it's in a sense is that very typical and tiring debate that the nature was not your thing but as you are you know in the laboratory and you're looking at this gene where do you stand on that debate about how much this gene is going to actually be responsible for fixing something giving it direction and how they're going to be the other things that I think it termed it the loop out which is all about environment learning being schooled etc so you know a lot of my new work I should say you know obviously like everyone we're evolving as thinkers a lot of the new work that I'm doing has it has a somatic element you might not know it off the top my head but I know it I often know it as I said after I finished writing that's why I write to figure out what I'm thinking a lot of the new work if you if I in fact I thought about this when I was on my way here on the flight a lot of the new work fundamentally has to do with placing things that we thought were powerfully would powerfully determine features of ourselves placing them back in context placing them back in the context of ourselves so to give you some examples I'll tell you how this fits in I've been thinking a lot about in my own actually and you know I've my laboratory then moves this way I've been thinking a lot about well we've spent so much time mana maniacally obsessed with genes that drive the growth of cancer cells what about the cells that surround the cancer that are not cancerous what about the homes that cancer is build around themselves what about the environments micro environments and then what about the macro environments in which a human being exists their cancer exists what about the so I wrote a big piece called cancers in the invasion equation which came I was in The New Yorker which tries to turn away from this as I said monomaniacal obsession with the cell itself and tries to understand what a how can we put the cell back into its conte into its micro environmental context and in doing so I read work that I hadn't read before me you know I'd like to think I'd read everything about all of this of course I hadn't I read work by DW Smithers an English oncologist from the 9th from the 1930s 40s 50s who wrote an incredible piece in which he said in which he wrote cancer is a disease of cells just as much a traffic jam is a disease of cars so you can imagine it's a very powerful provocation this was a time when everyone was obsessed with cells and yes a traffic jam is a disease of cars that might be correct but it's obviously not a disease of cars in the sense of in the sense of the car itself it's about the context in which the car finds itself right Smithers got lacerated they were written and letters written in the lancet to reply back to this cancer as a disease of cells etc etc etc but we're starting to understand that that there's some truth to this idea about to be one more example a kind of puzzle that we've been thinking about for a long time breast cancer we know metastasizes to the liver occasionally cancers metastasized liver which we never metastasize to the spleen they're the same shaped organs same sized organ that lived next to each other why not what about one environment makes it very receptive the other environment not breast cancer metastasizes to the bones but it virtually never metastasizes to your wrists or to your finger no one's ever heard of breast cancer in your finger or in your wrist why not why does it metastasize to hips or spine or other bones why not other bones so it's a whole series of thoughts so this comes brings me back to my the the piece that I wrote about my father which has also been widely circulated and there again I was thinking about similar questions the question there is homeostasis what does it mean how do beings organisms how do how do they maintain their sense of balance how do they maintain senses of cells how do they resist forces that change in the context of being themselves how do we keep things the same and again it's it goes against this idea of oh you know we know the elements of change we know the elements that will change a body if you give this medicine that will happen very deterministic way of thinking also correct but what about the flip side whether the yang side of that the yin-yang side of that what if what about the things that happen which resist these changes these forces and in fact we're built that way we're built so that we aren't sort of we aren't blown away by a single environmental change our bodies our physiology ourselves ourselves our mentors is so again this work I think is somatically organized I didn't know it myself actually when I started writing these pieces I didn't know it myself but in retrospect in in there'll be a series of five of them and they'll be collected we're hoping in a book maybe where you but nonetheless we will find ways to organize these thoughts about what I call the yang side of determining deterministic thinking again matters larger question of how science is viewed and particularly in India it's really fascinating that there's a near obsession with you know if people being science graduates and you know opting for science after class then you perhaps also saw a bit of that in when you were in school in India but there is you know other than this you know but Chhaya - doctor engineer Banega there is this fascination of gadgets as well and you know we like digital things and you don't like analog counters and all that there is also very touching disregard to you so the spirit of inquiry and rationalism and reason otherwise so how does this kind of get divorced from this this love for technology gadgets and fruits of science if you like without the accompanying spirit I mean I don't know I have no idea is that cheap you find that true in India is that true is that a common trope that you have a love for gadgetry but it disregards don't know is it yeah I mean I don't know if I took a vote here there are people fascinated by technology it's it's results with science but the other things that follow with science is scientific temper other things are do not have the same right yeah so I the quick answer is I don't know I have some some humility about context here I I don't know I would imagine that first of all I think it's a wonderful thing to train scientists I think it's a wonderful thing I think educating so you know I think it's a wonderful to think to me and I think I think of course there is a sense of balance that I think people want to achieve you want to be your physician your doctor not to be a technocrat right you don't want to be a you don't want your doctor to be a to be a gadget man or a gadget woman you want them to be a human being and then if they happen to like goddess that's fine but they want to want them to be human beings first but you know I I think I think I think we should have no shame in training scientists and engineers I think it's a great thing as long as you have as long as there's your what you're calling it's a nice phrase as long as the the temperament the scientific temperament remains present but there's you know there's a kind of and and actually importantly as long as they as long as the representation of genders in science it remains adequate those are important caveats but all of this said you know should we be ashamed that we we are training young scientists in and you just know it's a great thing train more how did the sciences and the arts come together in your life you know I again it's not I didn't consciously set out to be I mean I had I think consciously set out to be a writer at any point of time I like reading at some point of time I realized in my own trajectory that I like reading more than anything else in the world it's my favorite thing to do there's nothing more I like to do than reading and so I thought if that's the case I might as well write something but at some point of time you have some degree of self realization that if I were left alone in a room for 200 years and if I could read I would be perfectly happy and so if you if that's where you're going I think that I mean the question often asked is how do you know you're a writer how do you what what makes you writer I think you'll learn to write by reading there's no other means it's the simplest equation of all I I like doing it I think it's a wonderful thing to do medicine did you always want to be a doctor you know it sort of came to me slowly I there's almost certainly some reinvention in your own brain about what you wanted to be no one really knows what they want to be with you retrofitted to what you've become if you're happy and you retrofit it to what you could have been if you're unhappy right so then so you have to be a little bit careful about your own Oh when someone asks you you know did you always want to be right it's really what they're what they're asking you is are you happy human being or an unhappy human being right so that so I think it dawned on me general just slowly I wanted to be a scientist for a while I found it exhilarating but somewhat isolating and so I I think but I suspect that there's some retrofitting going on in in that you're a trained singer right do you still sing yes I sing you know we have a band which is which sort of does sits at the intersection of jazz and Indian classical music I was trained that's another thing I like to do but I have you know the answer is yes the band is sometimes cacophonous what's the bad cold it's called job blues after the rock joke but also joining follow me if you don't have any question right away we can just throw the floor open to a very eminent audience so my colleagues here have microphones so may I request you to please identify yourself before you ask a question and please try and avoid asking you know questions which are very personal about a particular medical condition which may have a thing we may not be in a position to handle kind of a question so should we start from the ambulance yeah Rena yeah please identify yourself yes yeah I'm Ramanujam I'm a professor in Indira Gandhi National Open University was a fascinating interview my question is when you write to think more precisely and more clearly dealing with the subject like cancer how do you balance between you were writing and the audience and the language you use yeah I mean obviously it's a it's a tough place to think in right I actually prefer not to think of an audience that's my personal preference I prefer to think about writing for myself and to myself if you're writing to think that's helpful it's also helpful because it immediately identifies things that you don't know you can tell just like you can tell a fair musician you know when you struck a false note before anyone knows it in the same sense when you write if you don't have the few lack that the querying of yourself is the best guide so I don't think of audience I try to think of myself as a reader that's the first way the second thing is I think that all good writing writing to thinking writing to think whether actually this is in fiction or nonfiction I wrote a long piece recently saying that even within in the world of fiction everyone is answering trying to answer a question in fact when I approach a piece of writing when I approach a piece of art I'm always I always start with the following I say what question is this trying to solve or answer it's a very unusual perhaps way perhaps as usual I don't know but it's my way of anticipating virtually anything so when I go and see a painting when I go see a piece of sculpture my wife's a sculptor when I go and see work the first thing that goes through my brain is what question is this work trying to answer so it's interesting exercise throw this out for yourself what question is the god of small things trying to answer there is a question I guarantee it there's a question that that book is trying to answer what question is the suitable boy trying to answer there's the answer is a question there is a question what question is a whatever it is and this is applied quite broadly to whatever element of art you're trying to ask so I always go back to that what question is is this something trying to unsaid that helps me a historian is trying to answer a question a novel is trying to answer a question obviously nonfiction writers try to answer questions I'm Deepika Magoo wanted to know is there something in diet that can be said that it is preventing cancer not right now we're doing a whole bunch of studies in fact one will be launched in the net well we know some things we know that there's a powerful connection between obesity and cancer we've known that for a while but it's not clear whether the connection is because of diet or because of genetics that's an often mistaken idea we don't know whether the contributor that's connected is dietary or genetic or something else could be some other categories so we know this for a long time we also know that that there are contributions of minor carcinogens actually so red meat is one of them but its contribution is certainly present but it doesn't add up to the real incidence of cancer so we are just about to launch in collaboration Colombian Cornell and Harvard are just about to launch really led by a Harvard group the one of the first rather comprehensive studies which will follow men and women with diets prospectively across we hope tens of years and some of them are going to be on a ketogenic diet which we think are is interesting from the Stanford can we don't know yet and we'll also do a simultaneous study of this as a treatment but it's early days we'll know soon Siddarth my name is Nasim Zaidi and very recently in my job in the Election Commission I dealt with manifestos you have detailed the history of development of gene and genome in your recent book the gene which I have read it I read all of your books in fact and you have said there are three billion letters in the indeed in the human genome and only 20,000 have been discovered so my in that context my question is or my clarification that I want to learn from you is what is going to be the what is going to be three or four top items of the manifesto of genome history or genetic research say in 50 years or 100 years you know politicians have been used to five years manifesto but five years is no period in science so that is my clarification thank you so you know what we're trying to do is again the the aim of the project is to try to understand human similarity and difference and try to understand what how much our DNA contributes to human similarity and how much it contributes difference and by difference it can range from wise you're trivial questions I think are generally uninteresting but some people might financially why is your physiognomy why is your face different from mine was your nose different from mine was your hair color different from mine but but of course rather profound questions why do you have a disease and I don't why do you have a risk of a disease and I don't etcetera so those are I think substantial questions we're trying to answer so the first thing is really in in our process of trying to understand this we're trying to understand how to make sense of human variation and similarity why are you made like me why are you unlike me why do you look like your parents while you'd not resemble your parents how can we explain the differences between you and me across time across space across Geographic space using our understanding of genes and the second one I think high on the manifesto is if we had that information should we would we could we in that order change this information either using the various methods I've identified so those would be high on the list reading and writing teach philosophy at JNU I was wondering if you are familiar with Michel Foucault's writings and how would you rate your own writings reserved because it looks that you are trying to create a social narrator for medicine while Foucault runs the other way around actually to deny the pathological or the pathological as a social construct I almost see your two ends of the spectrum would that be a right reading to make right so you know I obviously have dealt with in read fuko's writing a lot he comes in many times in fact he was very influential to the writing of the gene that might even be there certainly Coates from there's a present there's a there's a section which actually deals very much with fucose ideas about what would happen or what does happen when we regularize or normalize human beings this goes back to the point that they actually the Commission made the IOM did pseudo medicine commission made about seeking normalcy and the real concern of diminishing human diversity that actually that concern arises very much out of the strand of thought which was brought to us by people like by philosophers like but Foucault vien philosopher is that the the desire to that that the medical desire to normalize has to be kept in check versus the human desire to maintain and celebrate that we are different from each other I'm very inspired by that idea we're concerned with that idea you know we come at it as it were through very different spaces I'm obviously primarily a doctor I do think that the different perspectives are important but we obviously share I just gave you some examples of how I've been inspired by and I share many fundamental commonalities with a group of philosophers among whom for cause one I would say philosophers philosophers who have concerned themselves very deeply with normality and difference and I share their concerns very much my name is departmental I teach genetics I used to teach I'm and I work with GM crops I want to compliment you for this wonderful book the gene and I think every student of biology should read it because sometimes we teach biology in a very sectarian way from a very narrow perspective and you have really caught up with a very large canvas in your book my question to you is a very basic one you know we we know that mutation is a deleterious mutation can cause cancer in mutation can cause disabilities but mutation is basically the raw material on which all the life has evolved the point is that we are accumulating too many mutations because natural selection is not operating the modern medicine is protecting people from purifying selection so I believe that there is inevitability in at least corrective interventions otherwise we will be all ending up in hospitals and the health budgets will soar so high that no country will be able to afford it that may be the end of human so some intervention is required I would like to know what you think with all your I think before interventions are required humility is required and I think we lack that humility currently I think one of the things that distinguishes us from an is our capacity to care for the ill in fact one of the points made in the book is that illness even genetic illness and perhaps particular genetic illness is a mismatch between the environment and you a hairless a hairless man is ill in Antarctica but very well in Africa just to give you one example because it's the climactic you know how you adapt to the climatic changes it's important to realize that because it affords a certain degree of humility about what illness is now there you're absolutely right that there's certain particularly genetic illnesses where you could where the human mind is boggled about how those but we can't create environments really within human reason to make those individuals flourish I still think that our primary responsibility is to give them care this is a human impulse I think denying that impulse is to deny what is fundamental about ourselves and I would I I have generally been an advocate of humility because our our attempts to tamper with selection if you haven't noticed I've gone quite badly in history so I think the first face of this if we read history carefully if you read genetic history carefully should be humility rehabilitation Victor McKusick the greatest of the human geneticists was extraordinarily concerned with what he called the genetic industrial complex not the military industrial complex but the genetic industrial complex in which we would try to use reuse forces of selection natural selection to recraft the human genome to our specifications and he you could not find a deeper believer in genetics but he was also he founded the field of human genetics but was also reminded himself to be extraordinarily sympathetic and humble in the face of trying to shape the human genome I would like to remind ourselves of that again in it as we move forward so the first step should be humidity the first step should be to relieve extraordinary suffering that's what I believe I believe that the it's not clear to me that the forces of selection have been entirely removed we're undergoing selection during our evolution I hope that we can try to eliminate diseases through genetic means but I think that the desire to recreate or craft human genomes have been projects that have gone wrong in history so I feel that we should be humble in the face of all of that I heard you mention chance now how does jazz really help you and this is a jazz of John Coltrane Miles Davis oh come from so big names it's all of that you know I think obviously the obviously it was anyone who's spent some time thinking about Indian classical music understands that they're rich intersections with jazz I like to think about how these might have evolved if you imagine music as a kind of genetic strain it isn't I'm just saying it as a metaphor how could these two things of music which arose in totally different places have evolved in directions that are surprisingly similar what does it tell us about us as humans that we want to listen to something created on the spot and we we in and in a culture where virtually everything is available to us in a kind of digital or simulacrum we see images we don't see the real thing we see and yet we crave going to a performance where the performers is right there making music right there what does it tell us about ourselves I don't it's a fascinating idea why did these two places that are so far away from each other play such a premium on spontaneity on mistake making mutation why is it that we find that pleasurable why is it we find I don't know the answers they put their questions fascinate me may I please ask a personal question my name is Anita Cooley you said you didn't say I think therefore I am but you said I read therefore I write do you have a set time for writing or is there some discipline to your writing if I may ask there's a discipline to nothing in my life so that's so true but I was wondering since you know I obviously we are brought and torn in different directions I try to carve out time every day if I can do write something I would probably write something every day I mean I'll be polite I think realize that the real the the real place for writing is editing you can produce a lot but what you keep is is what makes a difference between generally between people who produce readable writing and people who produce unreadable writing frankly so I think anyone who is it's what you take away from the page rather than what you leave on the page that's important so I spend a lot of time going back going back and going back and ultimately someone has to pull the manuscript out of my you know cold hands before I before it's finally published so that's my process but I try to do it every day hello I was right sense again how did you know speak into the microphone yell or shout I'll repeat your question give him a new mic if you were to write science fiction yeah how would it end I hope in Hope in Hope or in a dystopian world what do you see there at the end I've been actually interesting you asked I've been toying with the idea of writing some science fiction I've been very inspired by science fiction I've written I've read science fiction all my life I'm particularly interested in science fiction I've always been in science fiction and the point is you know I would the quick answer and I'm gonna be blamed for being a cop-out again is that I don't know when you write a novel when you don't know you let the at a certain point of time and this is true for the Emperor and for the gene as well that you let the book become your guide you let the characteristic back to you that's when particular in fiction but also in nonfiction you have to once you create them you have to let them speak back to you and that's very important you have to let the book speaks back to this goes back actually to your question as well to your question as well what is the process if one of the processes is is that you let the book speak back to you let the character speak back to you in the gene I didn't and it didn't know when that book would end in fact the end of the gene was read it in about four times because it when I felt that it was ending I sent early drafts to maro and we had a long conversation about it with my editors etc and it fell to his had hadn't ended in the right place and then I realized it had to end in a particular place actually that and I'll tell you the process and this will help you understand what what science fiction how to write science fiction I had an instinct that the book had to end in a particular place which is not where it ended and very late into the process I figured that the book had to end where it had begun in Calcutta with my father's visit and then and and really I woke up with this idea I had heard years ago and I don't even remember how I remembered it I have no recollection but I remembered this snippet of a line from a great musical piece by Kumar GaN have the right heard years ago it would have been a child and he was singing you can find it actually up if you're interested for you to it you could find it on YouTube we got to go back to it and there's a snippet of a line in which he said in which he says I translate you can read the original show me that you can discriminate the notes of a song and understand that the process of this discrimination is the first thing that we do translating you can read it the chapter is called the aid of aid in the book but I suddenly woke up and realized that this was the place that should end and that's how I figured it out it was a really a kind of I understand finish writing this book I understood now about 30 years after I had heard the sign of this song the two lines is a 30 years later I saw a figure oh gosh I've begun to understand it it took me 30 odd years to figure it out so you let a book speak back to you I think ultimately Thank You dr. mukajee that was fantastic just you spoken about sorry I'm not anything you've spoken about human emancipation you've spoken about the liberation from suffering now I just want to know so the flipside of that so is there a happiness gene and can you intervene and also at the moment in India we are in great need for a gene that will suppress arrogance so is there such a gym right I wish there was I wish there was but there isn't I'm sure there isn't I'll give you a gene for happiness if you can define happiness for me how about that [Applause] no no I'm very serious about it I'm very serious it's not about you this in fact you know I'm sorry but you've spoken about emancipation liberation from suffering you're spoken about the precision of science you've spoken about human emancipation so you you can define happiness in you know sort of maybe in five parameters or something to say well I'm can you do something but but the reality is that in fact I think and this is an important point and I write about this if you in fact there's a whole chapter to some extent dedicated to this it's the last of the manifestos in in in the book which is I write this I say the human genome is narcissus reflected if you define a quality narrowly and if that quality is heritable I can give you a gene for it I'll give you an example if you define blue eyes guys being blue and if you know that that is heritable then I can give you a gene for it if you define a quality widely and if it's not heritable it's very unlikely that I will be able to gene give you a gene for it and that's true across many things you know it happiness certainly fills that criteria so I'm not this is not a publication exactly I believe very deeply in this idea that the narrowness of the or the width of the definition of a feature allows us to determine whether that feature is or is not genetically inherited if I in an absurd world if I was to define a beauty as only having blonde hair sure I could find a gene for beauty but that would be a world in which you and I he would find may find non tenable similarly if I were to say that happiness is only having certain parameters very narrow parameters of success only being six foot three inches tall I'm not so I would be unhappy by those criteria but if I were to say happiness is six being six foot three inches tall sure I could find some genetic correlates of that arrogance I think sadly similarly maybe arrogance can be more narrowly defined than happiness I'm getting exhausted so maybe they'll get one more question that my name is Shahid's you talked about deep learning yeah and how computers can think like humans what computers get cancer what would be akin you know that's interesting idea could computers get cancer you know up code that evolves with learning well you know we certainly know computers can get infected viruses and so forth the computer computers get cancer but you know they're learning algorithms don't have a growth component to them so in an evolutionary sense it would be hard to imagine you know what good cancer be without growth but you're asking it differently perhaps you know perhaps you could widen the question the question could be could could an algorithm become demented could they have dementia and I suspect that you could I suspect that there could be reasons that your algorithms could have dementia I suspect I don't see why not if the nature of learning is a particular way and if there is a decay which is usually the case in dementia I suspect that it's the interesting question I suspect cancer would not be the right place to go I suspect dementia or having a kind of psychosis could a neural network become psychotic maybe thank you very much dad for this wonderful TV [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 82WjKJwmvcE (https://youtu.be/82WjKJwmvcE) ===

as a clinician you can't tell a patient you know I'm sorry I'm not I'm not sure how to treat your breast cancer Mrs Smith um come back to me in 5 years when I figured out a little bit more about the genome right Mrs Smith needs or Mrs Jones needs their treatment now um so you don't have that luxury and on but as a scientist you you you have to tell yourself that that the kinds of strategies that you're using currently have got to be primitive I mean certainly were primitive at the time that we were using many of these chemotherapies for many diseases for many forms of cancer not for testicular cancer where chemotherapy is remarkably effective but for for lung cancer for instance where chemotherapy is not that effective so um so that tension is very acutely felt in the book um that said how do we know that that the that the that the therapies of today will not become out outed tomorrow I hope they become actually out moded tomorrow I frankly hope that you know I hope that we that in a decade from now we we look back and and at at this at this moment in oncology and we find it laughable in the same sense we find purging laughable um or or find bleeding laughable um I hope that happens um and um and that's what that's what makes science or medicine very Dynamic um the knowledge of yesterday I can tell you with some I can tell you with a great degree of certainty that CML chronic myogenous leukemia was a disease actually multiple Myoma um breast cancer just to give you three cancers the the paradigms that I learned to treat as a young as a young fellow the paradigms that I learned to treat these diseases have changed so dramatically that I I had to barely I had to relearn as an attending I had to relearn everything about treating all the these three cancers in the span of my training program um and so that's a reminder that you know things are changing really rapidly

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 8pOKgYJ9ia0 (https://youtu.be/8pOKgYJ9ia0) ===

tonight's program is cancer still Emperor how innovative research and treatments offer hope for cure this gives us a very particular and interesting look at the 2009 Pulitzer prize-winning book the Emperor of all maladies a biography of cancer it also looks at the groundbreaking advances in cancer research treatment in prevention that have emerged during the past decade since its publication before our friend and partner Margaret Ann ball Meyer who is president of MCD foundation introduces our distinguished panel this evening we're going to launch tonight's program with a short video featuring Ross McKenzie he's no stranger to most of you in this room and Ross as the retired syndicated columnist and editor of the editorial pages of the Richmond news leader in Richmond times-dispatch and he'll join us immediately after the film but thank you to everyone who supports the MCV foundation or hopefully both the MCB foundation and the Virginia Historical Society we couldn't do this work that we do without you so we appreciate you being here enjoy your evening [Applause] [Music] [Music] thirty years ago I put the afternoon news we are editorial pages to bed first edition deadline 10:20 a.m. and went to play noontime handball at 2:00 p.m. I had a routine physical at McGuire clinic on palm road with my internist MCV trained Hilton almond toward the end of that physical as dr. almond pressed around my upper abdomen he said you're not pregnant or not at last check I said and he said I think you know need to go downstairs for a cat-scan he was suspicious of something he was feeling near my spleen he was thinking possible lymphoma the scan and a subsequent biopsy confirmed that was 1989 I was 48 my journey began with MCV refined instinct of Fulton almond and flowed through whitey Robertson and Walter Lawrence to the informed and scrupulous monitoring of Harold Chung along the way there were countless other MCV physicians clinicians and steadfast healing nurses such as nurses Brenda and Lynn during cancer number one and Patricia and Angela during cancer number two without that full cavalry writing to the rescue and without let's see North Hospital Dalton Clinic radiation oncology the bone marrow transplant unit Massey and the Stoney Point clinic no further dreams in this script would have come true I wouldn't have known the past trifecta of decades nor the joys those thirty years have contained none of our sons college years and careers none of their marriages and children none of the life my wife and I have lived holding hands none of her Windrush beneath my wings no Sun sets or moon rises no crashing surf no rippling creaks no breezes soething and the birches and pines no getting lost in books at night no waking in the morning and refusing to let the old man in no learning from our Labrador how to roll on one's back in life like a happy dog 30 or indeed 20 years ago what remained would have been buried or sprinkled and that would have been that so Thank You American medicine thank you especially MCB medicine doctors and nurses and clinicians off you gave me you wife saviours made possible my past 30 years god bless you mere appreciation doesn't cut it nor gratitude this this is love Ross Mackenzie [Music] talking about the not admitting impediments to the marriage of true minds it's not really a Robert Herrick either talking about the liquefaction of the fair Julia's clothes or its and it's not Ali MacGraw and Ryan O'Neal in love story but it is it does it does express some small measure of the feelings I have for this institution that has allowed me 30 more years on this cosmic orb just unbelievable the turn of events that let us say MCV and this event occurred as the video noted and the longer piece stipulates with Hilton Allman who discovered this during this routine physical this lymphoma and asked me if I was pregnant and turned out we had something else going on and I called up my friend whitey Robertson neighbor across the way and Goochland County and I said what do we do here what's this all about what's a little you know here's the editor who doesn't even know what lymphoma is he said you need to see Walter Lawrence I said I'll work it out for you so he called Walter and Walter came in and pronounced me a lucky guy because I was having one fun I had lymphoma when we were beginning to treat lymphomas with chemotherapy and not with surgery he assured Ginny and me when we were meeting with him in my hospital room out at McGuire clinic that that he had operated on about 500 of lymphoma patients and the surgery had failed all cases and we didn't see how that was very good fortune but he said you're gonna do fine we've now got a we now got a different method to treat we treat you guys and we're gonna be just fine so it's become almost a cliche personal cliche for me to say that both verbally and in print that I've done so well on my checkered medical journey because of three things a benevolent Lord an angelic wife and and outstanding medicine as practice at MTV I cannot introduce you to God though he's everywhere but my Angela and my angelic wife is right down here and and in an MC V foundation assisted version of this is your life I can introduce you to a number of the MCV trained or MCV practicing doctors and nurses who helped me along the way Hilton almond who as we said discovered this cancer that my first cancer the initially whitey Robertson longtime friend is here pulmonary thoracic wizard stewardess - Walter Laurence Walter himself is here I'm gonna see more of him on the panel I told us I was the lucky guy as I said because I was having this episode when I did Lynn Fisher and Brenda Bremner are both here who treated me infused me during cancer number one and saw Yaniv itch who treated me during cancer number two saul has come down from from Bethesda to be here this evening they are all here and I would ask them to please stand for a round of recognition but for them [Applause] but for them we wouldn't be having this conversation we lack only Craig how and we treated me for cancer number one and the nurses who treated me for cancer number two and John McCartney's colleague Harold Chung who has followed me like a hawk for 17 years so thank you all abiding love to you for the life you and your caring and your genius and have allowed me to live now I'm an artifact of an earlier cancer therapy hour in lymphoma I just missed the era of Surgery surgical ineffectiveness and was treated by radiation and chemo oncology then transitioned to targeted drug therapies and now to immunotherapy consisting of gene alteration and cell transfer Buck Rogers stuff or yes Rochard rocket science I think we're teed up to hear about some exciting things about the latest magic in cancer therapy being performed right here in River City at MCV so to begin that phase of the program it's my pleasure to introduce Margaret Ann ball Myer president of the MCB foundation [Applause] well Ross you've made my job pretty difficult because such an eloquent and heartfelt a meaningful story and so much about what we're going to talk about tonight thank you for sharing that with us thank you for bringing people together and we'll go we'll move on with the evening so thank you Ross very much and all of the people who supported him over time I also want to thank Jamie basket for his kind words and for partnership with the MCV foundation and for hosting this evening tonight and this lovely auditorium that is just a wonderful place to gather I also want to recognize as Jamie did Austin Bracken bro so Austin is a lifetime trustee of the MCV foundation so he he remains on both boards both of our organizations and I also want to say that he did bring us together to create this partnership but I also want to be sure that you know he really had the idea for this and he had the idea that if we came together that there would be a lot of people interested in the intersection of health and history and I think he was inspired by the book that we're going to talk about tonight that improve all maladies so Thank You Austin thank you for that and being gathered here tonight I also need to recognize another member of the MCB Foundation board who's been quite critical to this organization charlie Brian who's here tonight charlie thank you so much former president and CEO of the Virginia Historical Society and a member of the MCB foundation Thank You charlie for being here and I do want to acknowledge that we would not be gathered here tonight without the Virginia sergeant Reynolds foundation support and underwriting for this event so again Austin and for all of the members of the board thank you so much for the support that we have to do this event now many of you are very well familiar with MCB foundation but for the few of you who may not be MC V stands for Medical College of Virginia the Medical College of Virginia foundation was founded in 1949 so we are celebrating we're at the end of celebrating our 70th year our mission is to inspire and steward philanthropic resources for the MCB campus at VCU we currently manage our have assets under management of over 600 million dollars representing over 1,700 funds that support all of the five health science schools the hospital and the Massey Cancer Center at VCU we are just so pleased to be here on our third program in this health and in history partnership so to get us started I will not be introducing the full panel I'm gonna leave that to our moderator but I'm going to introduce him and that is the Dean of our School of Medicine Peter Buckley Peter became Dean just about three years ago in January of 2017 he came to us from the Medical College of Georgia and he is a psychiatrist with a specialty in schizophrenia and in January he will become the interim CEO of VCU health and vice president of Health Sciences on the MCB campus at VCU Peter good evening everybody and you can hear me okay yes fantastic it's a real privilege to be here as I look out at this room I see nothing but young people so I'm so glad to be your laughs I didn't laugh Ross your remarks and the video were really spectacular thank you and you bring home to us which we all know that there's not a family in America that's not been affected by cancer at some stage and so this for all of us is personal and I was yesterday in Philadelphia and there's a remarkable painting in Philadelphia that's of relevant to this evenings discussion and it you'll know what a course Walter it's the Agnew clinic and it's a painting of somebody having breast surgery and dr. Agnew is in his clinic with the latest treatment and it's called a Halsted mastectomy and it was a pretty blunt instrument for a condition that was poorly understood but it did save lives in its day but not enough and with a significant amount of disability mm-hmm so that was yesterday and this morning I got up and I was watching TV I was kinda towards dissipate land thing happening and I listened to a very interesting advertisement as for a new drug for cancer which was interesting in itself but they talked all about whether you were hormone positive hormone negative what the particular genetic profile was and they talked about p.o personalized oncology I thought amazing from yesterday's Halsted surgery to now something that's tailored to each individual so that's what we're going to be talking about this evening and we have a staggeringly esteemed panel I'm going to introduce these person the first person is it has been mentioned that our care is good at MCD the first first person is an iconic figure at our institution dr. Walter Lawrence please come up Walter Walter is professor emeritus in the department of surgery and he's also director of emeritus of the Massey Cancer Center having been the founding director of the Cancer Center between starting the cancer center between 1975 and 77 and he's a former past president of the American Cancer Society we can scour America to have somebody more dignified than Walter and we wouldn't find them so thank you the next person on the panel is a remarkable scientist and that Steve Brant come on up Steve and Steve is associate director for translational research at the Massey Cancer Center he got his training he's a physician by training he got his training at Mount Sinai and he's been here all his career he's been a scientific beacon for the Massey Cancer Center and for our faculty and his work as you'll hear later focuses on novel treatments for malignancies particularly cancers like non-hodgkins lymphoma the final speaker and then the panel is dr. John McCarty come up John and John is another remarkable colleague you want to believe a story that he followed Steve because he got his training also at Mount Sinai for not mistaken and John is the holder of a very distinguished chair to G Watson James chair and we have these chairs who honor previous colleagues and they're very important because they enable us to bring the kind of talent built in in John as dig' Watson James chair and Steve as the Olson chair and that helps us bring this kind of extraordinary talent to our to our city to the Commonwealth John's focuses on immunotherapy and he'll tell you a little shortly about some of the exciting work and so what we're hoping to do today is give you a sense of how far we've traveled in the time period that represents what Ross well illustrated in his video to what's happening today so we're gonna I'm going to sit down and then I'm gonna ask some really nasty questions and I think well and I'm gonna steal your water like so so nobody has a better perspective on how the journey cancer has traveled here at and Walter who's been at the for field of our our cancer arena for decades so Walter I'm interested in in asking you your thoughts on on the book what did you think about you're an avid reader and so tell us what you think well thank you Peter before I comment on though I'd like to thank you and the MCV foundation for carrying on with this wonderful chance to talk to these people about advances in cancer and especially when I thank Ross where is he there's over the rice area that grasper is that's the most wonderful endorsement this Massey Cancer Center and MCB has ever had so it's very excited about that and then and then I also have to dispel one little thing you said I was you acted like I was important and I wasn't actually I came here from New York from a Cancer Center but the person who really got cancer going here is somebody that some of the people in the audience may it's the late Susan left and she was sellable one-person Cancer Center here and it should get a lot of credit the other thing that I'd like to comment on before I say anything about the book is how proud I am of the Massey Cancer Center as I told Gordon ginder on more than one occasion a gang of guys here and girls got together and form a little Cancer Center and then he came along and really build it up into something really important and exciting and I was just so proud of what he's done but I don't think he would have done it without Becky Massey yeah and we gotta give her a lot of Christ dude now how many of you I'd like you to raise your head how many of you have really read this book I hope it's a homework for the book well I think this is a fabulous book for a whole bunch of reason well first of all since I came from a Cancer Center in New York before we're here I had my first career there I I think it said it's amazing how he covered so many things has talked about so many of my friends and classmates even and I told about things that I never even knew like Janet Rowley who did Fonda who discovered the first oncogene Philadelphia chromosome Ernie winter was my roommate when I was a fellow over there and he's the guy that wrote the original paper or at least letter I guess it was a paper now on on how lung cancer which was once very rare here but then was our number one killer he wrote the letter that drew attention to the fact surprised that it was due to tobacco so there are a lot of little things in this book if you those of you who read it and I hope you will because I've read it twice I thought it was terrific and it it it just it doesn't cover institutions it doesn't mention the Massie Cancer Center but then it doesn't brag about other institutions either it talks about people and laypeople as well as scientists and it's a it's just an exciting read it reads like an exciting novel and I can't urge you enough to read it well I read it when it first came out which was about seven or eight years ago and then when I got a chance to be on this neat panel I thought I've gotta read it again and I got so much out of it the really good second time so I would say it's a it's a it's a wonderful book and and what I'm hoping that you will all get a chance to read now I wanted the book I might point out one thing about it though it came out in 2011 and of course there's a book that came out last year that very tall himer kindly gave me when he found out I hadn't read it but mr. Graber called breakthrough and it's one of the things we're gonna hear a lot from our two basic scientists here tonight about the breakthrough of immunotherapy and and I think in his prologue of it up his second book he sort of gives a little dig to this book about we're talking about tonight but I can tell you this is so complete a book and such a wonderful story that I just hope you all hurry home and get one really great will you try paper I lose when - oh yeah it's not a paperback now let me turn to John John as experts specifically in transplantation and that was something that was pretty risky and was confined to people with really severe right illness so how's that changed over time well I actually participated in my first transplant during my internship back in 1986 not long before Craig how and Saul Jana vich set it up set up the transplant program here at MCD in 1988 and at that point it truly was I'll use a football medal metaphor the Hail Mary pass of Medicine when patients really had failed to respond to many other therapies they were giving given essentially what would be lethal doses of chemotherapy to their bone marrow and hopefully to the cancer we would give them back someone else's bone marrow and immune system and then basically support the patient to get them back together it was tough it was difficult many patients did not survive the process but many people did and from that start the company used the concept of you know we didn't create all of these things ourselves I didn't my team didn't but we stand on the giants of people who came before us and so when I came to you know by the time I came to work under Saul you know we the oldest we would consider a transplant for a fan with a family member transplant was 55 the oldest we might consider for an unrelated because of national donor pool was perhaps about 50 and that held true until about 2005 that's not all that long ago and finally we're seeing that these new innovations about how to find better matches how to better find that best match between a recipient and a donor how to do better supportive care how to try to hone in that that response we want transplant is all about trying to teach the immune system to love the patient and hate the cancer right it's almost like if you had a family member moving to your house you know that they would probably make it their own to a certain extent and we want that to happen we want that donor to move into the patient's house and say I love this place but I don't like that lymphoma I don't like that and if I'm gonna make it get out of here we got to keep that focused on that purpose and we've gotten better at that so now believe it or not the the group of patients that are the fastest-growing patients receiving transplant in the United States and internationally are people aged 60 to 80 okay we're now using it not for people who have no more options we're now using it because we want the standard of care to be better we're used so for example people with multiple myeloma one of the most common blood cancers in older patients it's now part of standard of care to receive a bone-marrow transplant as a way of extending their time of remission and to do better so I think this has been a real a real change to be able to take this very powerful tool and really change it from what really kind of felt like a club to turning it into a very very much more fine scalpel to be able to find a better balance between that risk and the benefit well that's a huge change absolutely let's move over to Steve so Steve obviously Nixon declared the war on cancer and that followed with with massive federal funding including the formation of the National Cancer Institute so how is all that come to today we can get up in the morning and hear about a drug that's have got a molecular fingerprint to it take us through that yeah well there have been enormous changes and developments since the announcement of the war on cancer many but not all of them have been directed at deciphering the molecular signature of cancer and in the 70s that area that field was in its infancy now we can it's almost routine we're able to dissect and characterize the molecular genetic operations in individual patients tumor it's literally at this point in time and that provides enormous potential benefits but it's also associated with very significant challenges clearly if we know a particular uncle gene or tumor suppressor gene has undergone a mutation and that that is responsible at least in part for the development of the tumor it gives us an enormous weapon or an array of weapons to use to specifically design therapeutic regimens which target the particular pathway that has been disrupted by the by the mutation and there's some there been some spectacular successes Walter mentioned Janet Rowley and the identification of the of the oncogene responsible for chronic myelogenous leukemia the BCR Abel Augustine and that led to the exceptional success of a targeted approach to a defined tumor and we now have drugs we should specifically attack the kinase that is responsible for chronic myelogenous leukemia and in the ensuing decades other tumor types have been discovered which also respond to the targeted approach for example lung cancer with EGFR mutations are out mutations we know with a high degree of certainty whether those patients will respond to a particular drug but the challenge is the the ultimate success of this approach is yet to be fully realized and the our ability to replicate the situation with CML has been a very difficult very difficult process tumor cells have a way of finding mechanisms of escape from that targeted therapy in addition even more threatening is the possibility of the tumor cell developing alternative pathways tumor cells morphing in a way right morphing they are prone to genetic instability which leads to additional mutations which confirm resistance the initial therapy so in some we we're in a position of normos promise being able to dissect out the molecular genetic landscape of individual tumors allowing us to individualize therapy but we still have a long way to go in achieving the outcomes that were ultimately looking for which amount to cures and I'm sure we'll discuss some of the options for that great minutes you know I was struck years ago with I don't know what he remembered a story of Angela Jolie who had a mastectomy although she didn't apparently have cancer but she had the hereditary and molecular signature that she would develop cancer and so that was an example putting to practice what she described about the kind of molecular signature and how that guides treatment in her case preventative but we know it's not just drugs as not right at surgeries had a role as well tell us about how surgery is actually as everybody here in the audience knows that the main three treatments for cancer either radiation drugs it's so far anyway and in the third is surgery but for what we call and for some of these things like leukemia and multiple myeloma lymphoma surgery is not even feasible because of the diffuse nature is a problem but most of these things we call solid tumors like the lung the stomach the breast are things that have for many years been treated only by surgery when you stop to think about it they didn't even discover radium and roentgen rays until around the turn of the century and it wasn't until after World War two that we had any of knowledge of any anti-tumor drugs so surgery's been around a long time and so when they asked me to be on this panel I thought by golly I'm I'm sold they ought to get hairy bear he's took my job I just started talk about surgery now but anyhow I then I realized that that I'm the only guy that's been lived long enough to been around long enough to see the whole history yeah so you're gonna get it yeah actually back in the time of Hippocrates we have a didn't even think you could treat cancer in fact they mentioned it but I think the first person that ever took a scientific approach and not one like we do now with randomized trials and all sorts of things like that it was this person that he referred to Peter referred to earlier William Stewart Halsted and of course he was our patron saint in surgery especially since he was the first chairman at Johns Hopkins where I was an intern where we had to worship him and his logic he was a good scientist and his logic was that let's take one cancer let's take breast cancer it's easy one to talk about in this regard he noticed clinically that the breast cancer would sometimes spread to the lymph glands of the arm and he came to the conclusion without any real studies that the way to solve that problem was to take out not only the whole breast but this the lymph nodes under the arm and all the tissues in between and as Peter mentioned earlier that's pretty deforming and can lead to things like our arms and everything but the practical fact was he was the first person who ever had any real cures of breast cancer and he he overwhelmed everybody by having half the women he operated on very carefully and with tedious technique and about half of them were cured so it it became our our catechism from then on that the larger the operation the larger the cure and that was and we all believed that I got it when I think no I don't know how we did that but even when I moved here from New York in 1966 I remember giving one of those main surgical conferences on not only do it like dr. Halstead but to make it a little bigger even so and this whole idea of the bigger the operation the bigger the care became an international thought and it and then along came a a friend of mine from Pittsburgh who just died the other day a hundred and one Bernie Fisher and we had just started a surgical service here and he said here were friends he said I want to start some trials and I you guys have a lot of cases so why don't you get involved well I better get involved with oh I think this dr. Halstead was was the guy and I think Bernie Fisher's thought was in god we trust' but if other other people have to have data what's this data big so we had about that time we really as a nation began to use randomized trials and the first trial really was it was a big jump to us but when retrospective he wasn't he just showed that maybe you don't need to take out quite as much maybe just the whole breast and we found out that if they hadn't already spread somewhere the results were just as good oh my god the surgeons and people were a little skeptical but we went ahead with another trial which really led to today's treatment which is just very limited non deforming surgery of the breast to just remove the tumor what has changed we went from more is better to the less is better and it was and how did we do that well we did that because we had these other edge events I mentioned we had do drugs that we could give in addition so the alamode to the surgery but and we could prove that a small surgery with some x-ray therapy afterwards now that x-ray therapy had been born or fine I think just as good results as this horrible surgery before and and that whole idea of less is better was really occurred in other sites as well at the same time we were doing these deforming breast operations I gotta admit we were doing very deforming head neck operations as well but by this time his time went on with the refinement of other modalities like radiation and chemotherapy we were able to really end up with quality of life much improved so I think we've we've come a long way in this whole business and it's it's been striking now have we improved the results well we'll talk about that later I'm not sure but we sure have improved that the treatment and the acceptance of treatment by combination with other modalities to make our surgery so much more acceptable and nowadays it's a lot of these things are almost outpatient procedures whereas before we were we were doing what we're almost awful things and what amazes me is that we all believed it was the right thing which shows how it takes somebody like Bernie Fisher who is the well the surgeons in the country thought he was evil yes yeah but but now William Stewart hosta is evil and Bernie Fisher's terrific thank you for that that does extraordinary tour of a large body of knowledge Thank You Walter now Walter mentioned the book Break truth which is about immunotherapy which is arguably the hottest area right he took us true thirty years huge hundreds thousands of papers you're gonna do the same thing and tell us about to be another sure for it so I guess sort of an extension I mentioned how essentially a what we would consider are consider a traditional bone marrow or stem cell transplant is essentially giving someone a new immune system that is not going to tolerate having that cancer hang around we've actually be able to refine it to the point where we're even using transplant to treat certain kinds of autoimmune diseases in fact in January we're starting our first planning visit to start a trial using transplant to treat multiple sclerosis Wow and so that's just a it's a small step but there are bigger steps you know let me step back I'm gonna pull down the the the slide set and give you a PowerPoint poisoning but let me talk a little bit about why does cancer happen not from the standpoint of genetic defects and molecular changes and so on but there's another partner here and that's the immune system how can we bring the immune system to be a better partner in all of these other innovations that we're bringing up bringing to bear on the cancer problem and treatment of disease well a couple things for example we partner with a member of one of dr. Lawrence's colleagues to actually have them remove melanoma tumors that are metastatic and we extract the lymphocyte that have already said you know I'm not sure you're supposed to be here take them out they're expanded they're energized and they're rien some very very amazing responses for people with metastatic melanoma that's an example of essentially this is not all about being an oncologist it's not all about being a a non surgical person that this is essentially a cross-disciplinary kind of way and we can get at these problems much better when we start expanding our horizons so how does cancer have help happen well there are many ways but the three way is either the immune system does not recognize the cancer as being there second is there might be cells there that recognize that something is there that shouldn't be there but they're not enough numbers of them so they're overwhelmed and then the third is I use a lot of analogies is that much like Dorothy and and crew going through the poppy fields going to sleep but the tumor is very often have certain capabilities of being able to put the immune system to sleep so it can't work effectively so we can counter that with a couple of things there are some great agents called checkpoint inhibitors that essentially is like giving the immune system a red bowl but it's it's essentially nonspecific and so just as you get responses to the cancer you also get other potentials autoimmune side effects I mentioned with our allogeneic transplant sometimes that immune response is off target and sometimes that new immune system tries to reject part of the patient they have nothing to do with the cancer and that can lead to long term in short term side effects so what if we were able to take the benefit of cells that would recognize their own how can we create this well we can take your own lymphocytes and maybe their day job today is remember that last flu shot you had and you all had your flu shots right okay all right they remember that last pneumonia you had they remember you had that little nascent colon cancer but it took care of it and that's their day job there look around for that to occur again well we take those out and now we have a problem we have a lymphoma okay so Ross if you had come to us now listen up because this is what you would have would have experienced this would have been your next next therapy essentially we just as now we all have smartphones that we have to upgrade the app to make it do what we want to do when say we're traveling in a new city or a new country we want to download the map we upgrade the app well we upgrade the app the immune system by literally genetically reprogrammed in these T cells these cells of your own immune system to now not like a particular protein that is prevalent on lymphomas just as yours c19 unfortunately we've never named these has no poetry in their souls what that's what it's called so these cells are then expanded they're excited we give the patient a very low-level chemotherapy that essentially makes room in the immune system and then we replace those cells in there and they start to go to town and an example young children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who had basically a life expectancy of five years of of two years of less than 5% were treated with this therapy 90% of them went into remission and 80% of those were long-term cures okay with lymphoma in patients who may have had anywhere from four to seven different therapies including transplant were given this therapy 60% of them had an overall response rate and even if their response rate was partial or they relapsed shortly if they relapse within the next six months they were now eligible for transplant that they weren't eligible for before so now we got a therapy in patients we were normally sending to hospice care that we're now giving what could effectively be curative therapy that's the power of immunotherapy how did that happen it's because people invested in basic science people invested in the ability to understand the biology of the cancer from the surgeon that removed it that didn't just necessarily send it off for this is what it is but also participated in that trial and was sent off so that we can better understand the biology driving this or the characterization of this so we could put out like in those cop shows a bolo for the cancer a definition of what it looks like so that we can identify that unique target and capitalize on that and use our own immune systems and augment it and teach it to be even more effective that is what we're looking at now we're using it now for lymphoma out of a ll we're using it for chronic lymphocytic leukemia we are starting a trial in solid tumor with sarcomas we are going to be doing several trials in multiple myeloma and we look to essentially I'll talk about more about the future with where we go from here because this is really the first coconut on the reef of really truly building what we hope for an immunotherapy so many years ago in cell um you know therapy to really be a true partner with many of the other promising modalities to make everything much more effective that's just awesome we're so excited we love it forward and we love it now Steve not everybody is as fortunate and some people respond and some people don't respond tell us what we understand about treatment resistance and the molecular signature of that you know well resistance patients with cancer and those attempting to treat them cancer cells are in a sense highly Darwinian era survivors and can combine that with their genomic instability cancer cells find a way to develop and find escape routes from even the most potent and effective targeted therapies there are many ways of Ishould tumour cells can become resistant they can develop metabolic abnormalities that that render the target and agent ineffective they can develop additional mutations which prevent the targeted agent from attacking and disabling its receptor or its kinase activity in addition cells can develop alternative pathways they activate alternative pathways that substitute for the pathway that has been disabled by the targeted agent actually the most challenging problem in drug resistance is cells are initially addicted to a particular pathway and if we disable that pathway they are sent on a pathway of self-destruction apoptosis programmed cell death but tumor cells find a way to lose their addiction to that pathway and you have to think of entirely new ways to induce them to die there are so many ways that tumor cells can become resistant I it's naive and unrealistic to think that we can overcome this problem with a simple single approach and this may mean bringing in alternative approaches actually multiple alternative approaches and in that way immunotherapy can represent an alternative approach to circumvent the problem of tumor cells that are become resistant to an initial targeted agent so this is arguably the major challenge in oncology today and I think the future in the future we will develop new paradigms of treatment in which we treat tumor cells early on with multiple agents including some that reduce the likelihood of development of resistance and multiple modalities and I think that may take a while but I think ultimately if we want to deal with the problem of resistance we're gonna have to think of entirely new strategies so I guess that's partly why the federal government promoted focused research true cancer designated cancer centers and and you were there at the beginning of that you launched our Cancer Center so take us through that and kind of what does that meant what does NCI designation mean and how did that come about Walter then there were a couple other categorical cancer centers but most universities weren't really worrying about it too much and so the but there was a lot of scientific ability in our medical schools and universities so it that's when the idea of having the expertise of the clinicians and the scientists that at universities to get more involved in cancer so that's when the whole idea of getting NCI cancer centers going and then so that's our own Dean here Kendall Nelson whose name's on that building downtown was he was bugging me every as soon as I got here we got every cancer said he'd been hearing about it so and this is also what led to President Nixon's war on cancer now I think we were thinking more simple-minded then we were thinking oh my god you is find a better drug or a combination and that'll fix it and of course it's taken a lot more understanding of the process of cancer and these mechanisms are John and Steve have been talking about for how the cancer center is up my cancer cell is outsmarting us but we so we started they had several kinds of cancers I had a few just basic science that were only working on the mechanisms the others they called clinical cancer centers and that was most of them and that's what we became they they had to have both science basic science and clinical activity in cancer to be a center and then they had this wonderful thing called a comprehensive cancer center which included prevention and things of that sort which is really what the American Cancer Society was selling you know when you get down to it yeah and so when we put in our core grant with the way they they said well you need extra money but you have to prove that you have a lot of good scientific grants yes so when we put in for our grant we put in a lot of stuff about prevention and all that stuff but we didn't we'd become a comprehensive center because we didn't have any funded research in prevention or things of that sort which I always argued incorrectly it doesn't make any difference comprehensive is just different well as it turns out I think we were focusing a little too much on just finding a treatment mm-hmm and we really must have a progress though dijanna Steve been talking about is based on a lot of basic science that may not even have been heading for cancer research and and the basic side is at the time that President Nixon started this thing we're arguing oh no we have to invest more in science in general and of course that those of us who were clinicians and we're started um I think oh no we gotta get tart more targeted research and as it turned out most of the things that wonderful things that John and Steve been talking about have really been more towards what's going on here what's the mechanism and some some of the big advances have come from unexpected sources of good basic science research so I'm sort of a convert now I thought it I believe it's important to be comprehensive but the nomenclature was really more based on where you had scientific research grants that were already peer reviewed by scientists at the National Cancer Institute and and so on and I'm sure with what you're hearing now I'm sure we're going to be a comprehensive cancer center which I must admit I poo pooed in for many years because I figured it was we were really I wasn't really thinking and I'm gonna play so so before I am public so you're not girls up I'm not go there let me ask Steve from your perspective as a scientist well what's the benefit and the significance of an nci-designated Cancer Center well Peter it's enormous ly valuable from a number of stand points by virtue of being an nci-designated Cancer Center we have an established linker nexus with not only the NIH and NCI but multiple other cancer centers throughout the country designated cancer centers 64 so at last count and that allows us there are many ways in which being designated allows us interact with and then take advantage of developments emanating from other cancer centers but it also gives us an opportunity to disseminate our work and our discoveries to the US scientific community at large in this country and internationally it gives us access to multiple mechanisms of funding for exciting new discoveries we also gain access to certain unique laboratories at the NCI which are available really primarily to designated centers in addition that allows us from a clinical standpoint to team up with many other institutions to allow clinical trial laboratory based clinical trials involving novel agents of cutting-edge modalities and ages and for example as a concrete example there's a mechanism that moves a um one making somewhere in a limited number of consortium and we're part of one of the consortium this mechanism to carry out trials of all the NCI sponsored agents yet often cutting-edge highly novel agents and trials can be conducted through a large network known as ATC TN the experimental therapeutics clinical trials Network it's open only to nci-designated cancer centers so we are able to conduct trials emanating from this mechanism but conversely several of our trials that develop here at the massive cancer center the last couple of years have gone on to become ET cen trials that are open to all the other 60 plus designated cancer centers and finally being a designated cancer center is it's really an essential aspect of being able to recruit clinical and basic scientists from other cancer centers as we attempt to strengthen and build upon our capabilities here many of these individuals only consider going to another so they go down the street they bypass if we did not have NCI desert you know when they first started anybody his brother could call his little office of cancer center and so in a way by saying NCI it meant we had legitimate yes peer-reviewed research going on that made us different than the guy who just said well I got a Cancer Center now yes and just by way to bring you up to now we've just hired a new Cancer Center director after two decades and more of Gordon Kinder's great service we've just hired a doctor Rob wind and if you think what our colleagues have said is not true I was at a meeting last week and I stared at another Dean who was desperately trying to recruit Rob when he and I was able to go no human hair because of everything that Steve said the designation is very significant we're gonna I think I'm gonna ask Walter just to kind of give us you promised this that you'd give us kind of the landscape of how we've done you'll give us kind of a forecast of how we've done in terms of truly making inroads and cancer and then we're going to go to some questions from you as audience what well actually we've talked about wonderful things but I think if I were in the audience I want to know are you getting anywhere yeah and I and I didn't know what the answer the question was but fortunately my old buddies at the American Cancer Society have some data people for 1990 and 2017 that's a sort of recent yeah and I wrote him down because I thought they were sort of interesting and then I want to interpret on if I can one is lung cancer has gone down 31% in terms of the percentage of deaths per 100,000 people with this awful our number one killer which incidentally was way down the list when I was a medical student she always it's been coming up a lot another one breast has gone down in terms of mortality rate is going down 39% prostate 50% and and you say well do you how about stomach well actually stomach seem to disappear a while back what's happening to all these cancers was it the new treatment no those are exciting new things for the future they're talking about you know I think it's that old American Cancer Society thing if you know what some what the cause of something has go up you could prevent it or you could identify early that's why they always said and in screening and when you stop to think about it in lung cancer I think it's mainly been the decreasing in tobacco use it's gone along now there are some new possibilities from a treatment like this very focused radiotherapy for very early lesions that are picked up at high risk people and breast cancer obviously there's there's improvements but most of them although some of them is due to treatment most of them are really diagnosis because of our interest nationwide and screening asymptomatic people the preventative task force always pooh-poohed our prostate business but when I looked over the data at the VA hospital over a period of time since PSA was started being used we changed our stage from advanced stage prostate cancer being the overwhelming majority to finding we had a lot more terrible one so I don't know that treaters may decide they did a good job but we made it available by early diagnosis so that's why I think the Comprehensive Cancer Center approach of trying to get things either find out what what made things happen so that we can get rid of that cause or correct it or at least early diagnosis really the answer it's not as exciting sometimes but as the treatment but it's probably very important so that's why I'm very excited about the fact that we're expanding our preventive activities at the Cancer Center and and we have a program going now and I think we're getting somewhere thank you imagine to be at the top of your game for decades we're going to take some questions from the audience we have some roving mics and Peter will answer them now my name is bill bug and gosh it's amazing some things you guys are doing it's just really amazing and of course up the effectiveness of some of these new things wonderful here but I was wondering what's it doing to the cost of the treatment oh that's it that's a great as an outstanding question a question this cost job do you want to take yeah like that so being the one who spends the most healthcare dollars around here on the stage yeah transplant just to give you an idea the average cost of a transplant a bone marrow transplant from someone else is about 500 to a million dollars the costs are just the drug for the Carty at this time is approaching $400,000 and the supportive care and monitoring after runs anywhere from a million to a million five I recognize there are a lot of there's a lot of pre-emptive prenatal care that we could deliver for those dollars the idea though is to not just cure the cancer and leave a patient uh non-functional okay the idea is to give someone back the years that they have lost and not to sound like an accountant if I only in giving someone a year or so that's that's a pretty expensive treatment but if I can give that person five 10 or even 15 years then it doesn't become that much per year that that person has actually then it has cost the healthcare system now I think the idea is this is the beginning first high-tech technologies are always very expensive there isn't a lot of competition just yet but there will be third as we learn better how to do this an example of one of the things we're going to be exploring here is that we may make our own car t-cells at VCU at Massey and there instead of paying a company half a million dollars for the drug we may invest for the cost of the drug we may actually buy two machines that will actually help us make them at probably a cost of around a hundred thousand dollars which is still not small but it's certainly a lot less so I think that as we get smarter as we get better as we as as Steven saying not just rely on this brute power of this particular cancer not every cancer therapy that is new gets positioned for the people who have no other options okay so right now you're seeing the cost and the and the delivery of care to people who've been through multiple therapies and therefore may be more fit less fit and more frail I bet the cost will go down as we're learning how to better partner with other agents and when to position these treatments at the right time earlier in therapy where we won't have that drastic cost no question I don't want to see you up here okay thank you let's take another question Walter Hutton Boyer maybe you all would repeat the story which i think is fascinating the treatment of choriocarcinoma in women and how that happened and it's been a long time ago is interesting what and I I might refer the group here to what is said about this in the book because this this is one of those cancers it arises in the placenta and it's sort of a rare cancer but it was one of the very first ones that was totally cured by drugs you know most of the time the drugs helpless but haven't in the past these nonspecific drugs have but in this case it was a cure and actually of interest to many of you is there one of the wife of one of our faculty members was one of the first people cured at the NCI by dr. Lee and Hertz with it yeah and and and he was smart too we did another thing he kept measuring something in the blood to make sure that the patient continued to get treatment even though there was no more recency test good detective yeah yeah and because they thought he was now practicing they fired him story you can read about it in the book we're gonna take one more question and then we're gonna have the opportunity dr. Horace you're the true legend in the room I see you out at the VA hospital fairly frequently could you tell us the significance of the partnership between the VA and MCB how both benefits from it oh yes yeah actually every time I bug every Dean that comes here because every Medical School always looks down their nose a little bit at the VA and in the VA when we get down to it is over a third of our education opportunities here at the Medical College and there's a bunch of wonderful people out there and the patients are super we veterans and and I'll tell you this is one beenzino's that because since he's been here he's really gone to bed for a lot of things at the VA and we're proud of you well I have to tell you this morning you may you may not know this but this morning we had the first ever cancer center director at our VA presented our leadership needed talking about this partnership dr. Ron garden house and who just joined us from Maryland so we're gonna make that partnership that you have overseen we're gonna make that stronger and stronger into the future you're doing well that partnership was part of what got me here yeah he was part of our team at the VA I went out there when I retired because I came with a I couldn't get funding because I my mentor was still at the institution in Seattle where I was training and the same grant I was writing Seattle time after time enough time I couldn't get I came here I wrote for a merit review and for an ro1 and I got it the moment I was here my laboratory was at the VA I was given essentially a funded salary unheard of anywhere else I was looking at it gave me the time and the space and the freedom to do basic science research become better funded to publish and to start working on transplant and and move from there so that actually that partnership was very unique of all the places around the country that I looked that is part of what brought me here for whatever that's worth fantastic we're glad you came my mule had lined up you had a final question would you like to ask so the question was what are the criteria that determined how long a transplant patient should might live John so I guess it's really the the response to the treatment at this point so to give you an example dependent really varies on the disease that varies on the stage of the disease how resistant what is the reason we're doing it and that so it's a very across the map thing for a very high risk so we never we never do transplants for someone where the risk of the treatment is higher than the risk of the disease okay and so we try to anticipate that as much as possible there still is just because the nature of the diseases we tend to treat with transplant there still is a mortality rate of about in many cases of national numbers are about 25 to 30 percent in some programs like ours it's more like 15 to 18 percent that isn't always true and some years there are uncertainties such as what strain of the flu virus comes along what other exposures might come along is norovirus prevalent in the community that can actually alter things that we can't predict and may alter the survival from year to year by the most part we're doing we're doing this as a curative therapy the exception is multiply Loma where we cannot cure it but what we can do is put it into remission for a much longer time to allow these innovations to come along so we have a better tool by the time someone needs our treatment again I'll give you an example we just recently had our one of our first patients transplanted in 1988 come by to come in business or 1989 on business and that's not an exception we're seeing more and more patients in fact my largest growing clinic is our long-term thriver Ship clinic that we have so I'm not sure if it fully answer your question precisely but we are seeing more and more and more so traivor ship is a great point for us to stop this evening this phase and we'll have the opportunity for discussion outside but now's a good time I think to ask why it'd be easy to come up and say some words why it is the chairman of our MCV foundation and he's a partner at Williams Mullen he is more than that he is a dedicated colleague that has really given a tremendous amount to this community and he's going to say some very good remarks because his dad is sitting right in front of right over here and he's watching him and his dad is on the on the board also and the Beasley's are have a tremendous legacy of medicine in this city and so thank you Wyatt senior Thank You Wyatt not so junior and close the south sir thank you so Peter thank you I'd like to thank everybody for coming tonight on behalf of the MCV foundation I know it's a early cold night and it takes a lot to get out to this but I think I hope all of you enjoyed this as much as I did learning about the progress we've made in the treatment of cancer and the future we have going forward it's just been highly interesting to me and frankly it also underscores the great resource we have here in our city that is our health system our med school that are really helping making great strides both with research and treatment of cancer so thank you all for coming I'd also like to thank Dean Buckley dr. Lawrence dr. grant and dr. McCarthy for their just fantastic discussion I learned a lot and I hope you did too we are going to ask our panel to go back upstairs so that everybody can have a chance to meet with them after we leave here and Dean if you want to go ahead and take everybody now so that we can get ahead of the crowd one second we'll finish up I'd also like to thank Ross McKenzie he did frankly just a fantastic job of putting a human face on this as we talk about treatment and where things are going we can't forget that cancer the ultimate story of a cancer story is the patient story and the story of the the treatment that our patients get from their providers the doctors nurses and everybody else it's very important Ross thank you for doing such a great job lastly I'd like to thank the museum staff Jamie Graham and everyone else for helping us put this together it's been a great night and thank you all for coming and now I ask everybody to come back upstairs and have a drink and some food and a chance to talk to our panelists thank you [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: A1V81gse_vE (https://youtu.be/A1V81gse_vE) ===

[Music] you dig identical twins the concordance between them the likelihood that both of them will share the same sexual preference is not random it's much higher than random chance in fact it drops between identical twins and fraternal twins and that itself suggests that there is a powerful influence of genetics on sexual orientation now when I say powerful it's important remember that 100 percent the numbers are on the order of 40 or 50 percent so what that shows us is that multiple genetic determinants multiple gene variants above be responsible in part for sexual orientation but those gene and genetic determinants are not sufficient to determine all of it there's a role of my environment chance that lies beyond it but there's no doubt that there is a very strong biological determination of sexual urges you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Agq-Wne4H_k (https://youtu.be/Agq-Wne4H_k) ===

uh let me tell you a little bit about what we do i was born intellectually when cancer genetics was also being born the idea that genes resident in normal cells could be mutated and thereby unleash a process that would ultimately lead to cancer so that was my sort of my intellectual baptism and um and the question that our laboratory has asked that i'm interested in is what how do we take that information and make something of it what do we do next how does how do these alterations in genes ultimately result in alterations in cellular behavior because ultimately cancer is something that happens beyond genes how do these ultracellular behaviors so that these behaviors result in a cell that grows out of control invades other tissues and ultimately leads to all the morbidity and mortality of cancer so we started we started with blood cancers because uh it's what we perhaps understand the best i treat patients with leukemia and pre-leukemic disease called mds we bring those samples into the laboratory but really our work begins when we try to understand how these cells survive in the human body one of the most exciting projects that we've done which was published in nature two years three years ago was when we found that in fact these blood cancer cells don't live in isolation they live they make their own homes they make their environments up they live in the bone marrow for a very specific reason because they're getting signals that sustain their development within the bone marrow and the question is you know instead of the traditional chemo chemotherapies which try to attack the cancer cells directly could we change the environment could we change the home in which these cells live so that now we can direct other kinds of therapies which may be less susceptible to the fact that cancer mutates all the time you know in cancer you're playing this nasty evolutionary game trying to play cat and mouse because the cancer cell is evolving all the time but instead of playing cat mouse can we if can we change the environment in which the cancer cells can eradicate the homes so that they don't know that they no longer can can can keep one step ahead that's one area of research and the second that i'll mention more recently is that we focus more and more on the cell biology of cancer again how do these genes coordinate their lives so that the cancer cell acquires uh acquires this behavior and that has resulted in a new set of discoveries of stem cells that play roles in in various forms of cancer the most exciting thing that's come out of that uh exactly about a month ago is that we actually through the lens of cancer we're able to find normal stem cells including a stem cell that seems to build the entire vertebrate skeleton a skeletal stem cell this was published in cell uh uh two months ago but really gives us a window about what this environment is that causes cancer growth you know how does the bone get created so that the bone marrow that then gets created and again we're looking at cancer now not only from the genetic level but from the cell biological level so those are two highlights of the work we do mds and the work on bone and bone cancers but i'll let the rest of the panel speak about it further you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: AzBG2VaispM (https://youtu.be/AzBG2VaispM) ===

you've called it a biography why well I was looking for a word that was a little bit more a descriptive little bit more personal than history I mean the book was initially titled the history of cancer but it somehow felt that the word history was too inert uh and I needed something more and when I took a step back um towards the middle of writing the book uh it felt as if um I was uh writing a portrait over time of of something of course cancer is not one disease but many diseases but there are deep parallels that run through these diseases and it felt I was drawing a portrait as I was said and that is a biography and so therefore I called it a biography what is it about cancer that seems so human so living well part of it is that cancer uh cells exploit um uh processes that are very fundamental to our lives and by this I mean that the very genes that are altered um that unleash cancer are genes that usually play very typical functions in our normal cells I'll give you one example um cancer cells migrate through the body for instance uh process through called metastasis when they reach another site and grow in fact it turns out that the genes that are activated uh as cancer cells migrate and as cancer cells set up shop in another foreign site are in fact the very genes that other cells use to migrate through the body such as the immune system cells or so in other words cancer is constantly imitating or perverting normal processes um and therefore again there's a there's a quasi there's a quality of normaly hidden within its abnormaly well you said earlier that cancer is really a lot of different things is this the thing that they all have in common No in fact I mean the thing that they all have in common is um cellular growth abnormal cellular growth that's the common feature that connects all cancers melanoma prostate cancer etc etc um but that again is abnormal cellular growth that has been Unleashed by mutating or dis distorting genes that control normal cellular growth in other words the very genes that allow your embryos to grow that allow our brains to grow our bodies to grow if you distort them if you mutate them then you unleash abnormal growth and that of course is the beginning of cancer well cancer isn't just a human problem but how old is it uh for humans is it something that's been with us since we first started being hominids yeah so um well in fact there have been signs of cancer found in ancient cave Bears so as you're pointing out it's not a human problem um that said um we the answer is the quick answer is we just don't know the word cancer doesn't arise as the book points out as I point out in the book the word does cancer doesn't arise until about uh you know the time of hypocrates um and so the diseases that predate that we don't know um whether they're cancers but all although imotep did describe something that I think was cancer that's right so imotep um is the ancient Egyptian scribe U first written first first wrote around 2500 BC and has a case description that is very remarkably similar to breast cancer again we don't know for sure but the case sounds remarkably like breast cancer but I'm assuming that we uh in looking at old records old uh histories we see things that today we say ah that must have been cancer absolutely I mean this the I've written about that extensively in the book in fact you know as you turn out through the through history you keep on coming up with these these incredible case descriptions these rting descriptions which remind us that that you know the disease existed long before we could even name it but you also say for most of history at least until the 20th century it seems like cancer was mostly ignored uh and you write that it's often difficult to find references to cancer in literature before then is that because people didn't understand what it was or because cancer uh has really become much more of a concern uh as we have been able to live longer well that's actually that's absolutely right right that's on point I mean the cancer many cancers although not all cancers are age related breast cancer and prostate cancer being two very remarkable examples of that um and so in fact cancer only appears as all other diseases are eliminated other words in the 17th century 18th century people were dying of small poox and chera and tuberculosis and it's only when when those other diseases are lifted off it's when the veil of other illnesses is moved that you actually encounter cancer so and we're seeing that with Alzheimer's now we're seeing that with many many degenerative diseases diseases that are related to aging ultimately absolutely when did the word cancer enter our vocabulary well the word comes to us from the Greeks um has a fascinating derivation the atmology of the word comes from the fact that hypocrates apparently um imagined tumors as crabs a solid tumor as a crab buried under the skin and the blood vessels around it um sort of spread out like the legs of the crab so it's a reminder how much of this disease is still buried in metaphor um and you're right that naming the disease uh is often more important than describing its characteristics well the naming of a disease is a very important moment because it it allows us for the first time to discriminate that from normaly it is it is a moment in time it's sort of like it's like separating the wheat from everything else um and it's it's by naming a disease and by putting it as a category that Pathologists can begin to discover what the commonalities and differences are and that happened in cancer around as I said the name is long is is very old but the pathological description of cancer really comes from the 18th century

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: C5mT5vvt7VI (https://youtu.be/C5mT5vvt7VI) ===

[Music] [Music] [Applause] welcome to science in the SP SP light this is a program that looks at scientific breakthrough and Innovation we have today with us Dr murli Basham he's a molecular oncologist that means someone who researches on the molecular aspects of cancer what causes it and perhaps also its treatment he's with the center for DNA fingerprinting and Diagnostics thank you for joining us than you cancer not really considered an Indian disease always been Associated as a western disease is that been a priority and does that need to be a priority today we are hearing about cancers everywhere these days yes so you're absolutely right maybe 10 20 years back cancer was always associated with the Western population it was neglected in India uh infectious disease was a priority which was rightly so uh but perhaps due to Rapid urbanization and industrialization um and lifestyle changes in Indian population we are seeing a sudden spurt in last 5 10 years of cancer incidents uh to some extent it's also true because of increased and better reporting and awareness uh but uh so now and as per reports from the World Health Organization which every year releases a report of the world cancer scenario and they have predicted India and China are going to overtake the whole of the Western World in terms of cancer incidents uh in the next five 5 to 10 years we are obviously not a resource Rich nation and we don't have enough money to spend on these can't we really borrow the literature that's available or the research that's done in the Western countries I understand you were telling me that in fact all the treatment is done on Western lines but Indian cancer uh perhaps has different biological Origins and perhaps requires a different treatment regimen as compared to the Western World so far cancer treatment in India was borrowed from Western literature the clinicians get trained used to get trained in the west they'll come back adopt those they were trained on cancer samples in the west they'll look at Indian samples and they will implement the same uh treatment modal modalities and patient management approaches it is practiced all over India and uh because literature what we have is on samples from the West uh but uh it is also true what we have for past 10 years the work we have done has shown that um the origins of tumors from Indian cancer patients may be different than what is reported from the West that's very interesting does that mean because of genetically we are different from the Western population or is it related to some other factors in the environment so it is definitely a combination of both our endogenous DNS sequence is very different from the West definitely so the genetic factors which contribute to predisposition uh to cancer is will be different in the population so you do get different types of cancers because of that but also the environment uh and the lifestyle are different so and diet so these things will also contribute to a different type of cancer so because in US marriages are much later uh here it's different so the hormonal Cycles are different between the two populations so that is one reason why the breast cancer here because it's a hormonal triggered cancer usually is different from uh from the west and uh West has classified breast cancer into four or five subtypes the most minor subtype in the west which unfortunately is more aggressive is perhaps the most prominent subtype of breast cancer in India and which is actually also true for other developing nations in Asia uh so again then uh other labs in in the country are looking at that cancer subtype which is not a problem of the West so we have to do our own work again like you are telling we need funding uh because this is extremely important it's it's so breast cancer sub type uh what is prominent in India is not very well understood so there are Labs who are working on that and hopefully uh something good will come out of it how big a factor is genetics on the one hand and how big a factor is Lifestyle on the other traditionally cancer is um a sportic uh disease which means it's not associated with with genetic predisposition or familial syndrome so there again different type of cancer will have a different uh inputs from the genetic component and from the uh environment but both are contributing so on the one hand is the patient and the doctor on the other hand perhaps the farma companies which are looking to get that breakthrough and get that drug where does cdfd and your work really fit in right so I as I mentioned our work uh has shown that uh the cancer types are different and therefore or I should say subtypes are different and and therefore uh uh the treatment uh modalities from the West cannot be uh implemented here so our lab has been working to characterize uh some of the tumors which are not uh related to the Western literature so we have found some novel genetic events which may drive the tumors uh and then further characterization it's possible to Target these genetic events for for therapy okay so you know some genetic event is very important for the tumor to grow and sustain itself you inhibit that the tumor subsides okay that's that's we call targeted therapy uh so for that the Pharma is very very interested uh because uh again because of the economics of cancer therapy in India because of the huge population but at the same time they don't fund any research in India such as only funded by government unlike the West uh but once you reach that stage uh they would be perhaps willing to you know manufacture something which in the lab you prove that it can inhibit a certain type of cancer so that kind of we are obviously talking about a very very long road yes very long you are mentioning lifestyle can that really play an important part in actually stopping cancers what does your research tell you yeah so we have not done much research on that aspect but others have done and it is well established that many cancers are called lifestyle cancers or lifestyle disease so gal cancer is one of them where we have done most of our work and uh There It Is Well uh established that uh lifestyle factors include factors related to Urban ization so um non physical lifestyle so more sedentary lifestyle and diet like greasy food fatty food red meat uh these are on the other hand fiber rich diet uh would have protection so these are in terms of scientific um uh research not very well established uh because they've all been looked at independently but if you have a large cohort study where you can have two or three factors combined uh which some people have done the association is much stronger so you have more risk if you have that kind of lifestyle that is known for Coral cancer and other cancers like breast cancer as well okay very very fascinating best of luck on your work and hopefully we will have some treatment regimen coming out of your work out of this very laboratory as well thank you so much for joining us time for a short break on science in the spotlight on the other side Anita mukarji will be chatting with Dr sidharta mukarji author of the emperor of maladies stay with us w [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: CAAWN6ckoQc (https://youtu.be/CAAWN6ckoQc) ===

genes are at the core of our identity they have recently been at the center of stunning advances in medical diagnosis gene therapy and Al and alteration Dr sarta mukui is the author of a new book The Gene and intimate history it is published by an imprint of Simon and Schuster a division of CBS he writes one humbling fact about our understanding of the human genome is how little we know we're pleased to have him here first of all congratulations on this and the Pitzer for the biography of cancer thank you very much uh the interesting thing about it it's both promising and scary mhm tell us why well it's promising because as we learn more about human genes we can diagnose diseases that we didn't know how to diagnose before um with things like uh genetic interventions we can begin to cure some diseases um it's a long Frontier there's lots that we don't know but the technology is advancing rapidly um and I'm excited about that that's what makes it promising The Perils the danger in all of this is that we will start intervening on the human genome um at a time that we don't know very much about it and there's there's an international discussion while it's an embryo well while it's an embryo or even in embryonic stem cells where you know we don't know all the we don't know all the ways that we can potentially manipulate it but really it's the human embryo and embryonic manipulation that drives the uh drives the concerns you're right very is it inevitable I don't think it's inevitable I think scientists will and have in the past stepped up to the plate um and created strong barricades around what kinds of things can be done what kind of interventions can be done um so I think it's not it's not I think it's not completely a uh I think people will draw strong barricades around it you write very candidly about the mental illness in your own family you talk about two uncles and you talk about a cousin did that have anything to do with your desire to explore this this topic in 600 Pages well a lot of information in your book it's a lot of information and you know the the that was absolutely the basis for the book you know that and the fact that I was treating I still treat cancer patients and I began to experience the amazing things that you can do with genes uh and genetics around cancer uh you know you can diagnose imagine being able to uh tell a woman about her risk of future breast cancer and being able to screen uh for that or give her a drug to prevent breast cancer this technology didn't exist 20 years ago or 30 years ago we all of this now but on the other hand we're also grappling with the fact that there's so many uncertainties we're using the language of genes very Loosely you know but what are the uncertainties what what is the real promise and what are the real perils that's at the center of the book what percentage of cancers have a genetic component well you know ultimately all cancers are genetic cancer is a genetic disease um and so the question you can ask is what percentage of Cancer's genes are inherited from your parents and we don't know fully the answer yet because there are many genes that can have small effects um whereas sometimes you know there's one gene that can have a very big effect just to give you one example braa one we know about it one gene big effect but on the other hand there are many many women with familiar breast cancer that families have known breast cancer but we don't know what genes are involved so there's both ends of the spectrum even in that one disease breast cancer yeah because brca1 is a single G mutation so it's easily to determine that just like other things like Huntington's disease Tac disease those would be the kinds of things you could create some sort of genetic mutation in order to change the future in your family let me ask you about this you write in your book The genome will become a manual of previvor ship what is previvor ship it's a complicated word and it it's sort of entering our vocabulary previvor ship is the idea that you know you can look at a genome and you can begin we're not there yet but you can begin to ask uh questions about what might happen in your future so the word previvor is a kind of aelian word that reminds us that you know we're trying to we're going to try to predict the future from your genetic makeup then you become a survivor of a disease you haven't yet had it's a weird it's a weird idea because what you and often you're living in the shadow of an illness that you haven't yet had so it's a little bit yeah it's it's a tough it's a tough idea and we should be very careful with that kind of idea are you optimistic about where we are in this in this whole study of genes and cancer and mental illness good place I'm optimistic as long as as The Wider public understands that there won't be single genes for this there will be multiple genes with small effects and a big role of the environment and illnesses like this uh there will be genetic determinants we know that many mental illnesses have genetic components at their very core we know this from twin studies we know this from a lot of studies so I think as long as we understand that the nature of the information is complicated that's the that's the key last question uh you talked about the challenge to the gene pool as a triangle so the triangle has you know we have to remember that extraordinary suffering um is one important thing we have to evaluate I mean is the genetic disease cause extraordinary suffering number two is there is there a good correspondence between the Gene and the disease in other words like braa one you know you have the gene there is a heightened risk for the disease but that's not going to be true for all other genes and number two three probably the most important all of this should be publicly debated and it should be open to choice you shouldn't have a state mandate to test your genes or to do anything about your genome yeah we are just at the beginning of the legal Frontier that's a big legal Frontier on the very issue of this Dr Sider G great to have you here at the table thank you very very much and the genan goes on sale today

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: D4BGYf2Nkks (https://youtu.be/D4BGYf2Nkks) ===

tonight I'm excited to welcome Dr sadara muker to Harvard bookstore to discuss his book The Emperor of all maladies uh Dr mookery is a cancer physician and researcher at Columbia University Medical Center uh as well as a professor of medicine at Columbia a road scholar Dr muckery graduated from Stanford Oxford and Harvard Medical School his writing has appeared in nature the New England Journal of Medicine the New York Times and the new Republic uh the Emperor of all maladies is his first book uh Dr Muki subtitled his book a biography of cancer and he provides the reader the story of the disease from its earliest recorded history in ancient Egypt up through the modern era in the thousands of years that humankind has been aware of the disease attitudes about cancer and approaches to its treatment have changed greatly uh the prominence cancer holds in modern culture would have been unimaginable only a hundred years ago when the disease was considered shameful Dr muckery also writes about his own experience treating cancer uh providing a unique insight into the ongoing fight against what he terms our desperate malevolent contemporary doppelganger uh Publishers Weekly called the book A sweeping epic of obsession brilliant researches dramatic new treatments euphoric success and tragic failure it's time to welcome a new star into the constellation of great doctor writers wrote The Washington Post going on to call the Emperor of all maladies enthralling juicy scholarly and wonderfully written and uh just today the New York Times named the Emperor of all maladies one of the 10 best books of the year so that's very exciting [Applause] thank you so much for that lovely introduction uh my introduction began at 5: in the morning when I got this phone call about the New York Times so a little bit groggy um but it was wonderful um this bookstore holds us very special place in my heart um because much of this book was actually written it just across from here um at Lamont uh library that was my chosen space of work um I used to sit in the windows and every evening that I would right uh or finish any work I would usually take a winding road back to my house which usually almost always involved a stop here and and a slight unloading of my wallet um and and I was this and this have I was in C I was lived in Cambridge for 13 years and in I would say in a one mile vicinity of of Harvard bookstore and I think some of that was conscious uh because I really am attached to this particular bookstore but to bookstores in general and I'm very happy to support it in any manner or form um for tonight I thought I would do a couple of things um one is that um i' I'd like to talk more about the book than read from it uh partly because that's a that's an experience that you can't get uh from reading the book um and so I'll I'll do a couple of small readings from the book but really I want to talk about how the book was written and why it was written and sort of what the what the overall Global story is um and I hope I I'm obviously not going to give away any piece of it but I hope to convey the sense of what what the book is um and I to start I think um one thing that struck me very early on Nan Graham who was my editor in writing this book said to me that um in the end the entire paraphernalia of the book world including bookstores and uh editors and Publishers and designers etc etc are merely tools to get one author sitting alone in a room to communicate with one reader sitting alone in a room and if you forget that for a second you are unable to write a book and that struck me as very important because in some sense that is also the practice of medicine in the end if you take the entire paraphernalia of a million dooll hospital and it's CAT scans and MRIs and thousands of dollars of Technology poured in every second in the end the practice of medicine occurs between one person sitting in a room and another person sitting hopefully in the same room but nonetheless um and I think there's an important parallel there and that parallel uh is really what motivates this kind of book and that parallel is storytelling um that parallel is that much like the much like writing a book is a communication between as I said one person and another person through the version through a story medicine at its best um is begins with storytelling um and and if you cannot tell a story L the practice of medicine breaks down um and so uh in a very very fundamental sense right at the beginning of of writing this book I acknowledge that but also right in the beginning of of writing this book I felt that this should be a story um and if one could not construct a story of what has happened in our lives against cancer um for for you know the last 4,000 years then there was something wrong because this this had to be a story there could not this could be nothing but a story because of course this is a story of many characters across many across a vast amount of time but nonetheless it's its narrative quality was very crucial um and so I started one of the one of the very early devices that was used in this book is to find the stories of patients um whenever the whenever I felt the pulse of the book drop um at any point of time the answer was always um find the stories find the story of the patient forget for a moment about the advancement forget for a moment about the science um because that comes secondary that's a secondary achievement and and what is really really Central to all of this is of course the story so I'm going to begin uh with I'm going to tell you some of these stories I can't tell you all of them the book follows um as as as chip MRA pointed out in the times the book doesn't follow a linear structure um it will bounce back it will move between characters and and times moving back sometimes 4,000 years switching back forward 4,000 years but the reason it's all connected of course is that um medicine and science is also having a conversation with its past so every time you perform I mean I say I say at one point of the time in the book I say science scientists are actually more obsessed with history than perhaps even historians because there is no discipline that I can think of which is so deeply dependent on History we always think of science as a futuristic discipline but really it isn't it is a discipline obsessed with immersed in its past and it has to be because you're conversing always back you're conversing when I perform an experiment today I'm actually conversing back to someone who did it five years ago and that person was actually conversing back to Galileo or you know whoever else was sitting in some other point of time writing trying to explain or trying to create a Journey Through Time and so so so again much like that first analogy that I gave you between patients between patient and a doctor and a and a writer and as a Storyteller there's also of course a storytelling element in science except now in science story it occurs to its past it tells a story not to a person in the physical present but a person in this phys in the in the in the temporal past and that was also a very important piece of the book so the first story I thought I would tell you is um very early on one of the characters in the book and I won't follow the the the L narrative but one of the characters in the book um one of the central characters in the book is Sydney Farber um and early on I had to make a decision to have a single narrator a skeleton on whom a 4,000 year old history could be hung um and that's obviously a difficult question how do you hang such an enormous history on a single person or a single uh single story and one thing that was particularly important about Sydney Farber and and it's the following um Sydney Farber was a pathologist he was born in 193 um he was called a doctor of the dead because Pathologists usually perform autopsies uh they usually don't treat they usually diagnose and they're part of the Great ancillary Services the kind of invisible medicine that sits in every hospital and far was very prominent pathologist he he was a children's pathologist and he um became very interested in a disease called acute lymphoblastic leukemia it's a children's disease it's a form of leukemia a very aggressive form of leukemia for the following reason um in a world before CAT scans and MRIs uh quantifying the size of an internal tumor was impossible nearly impossible but leukemia could be measured because a tumor of the blood and you could draw out a droplet of blood you could look under a microscope and say well there are more cells or less cells and and science always begins with measurement as soon as you perform a measuring activity of any kind that is already a scientific activity and so Farber knew this he had inherited this idea from his predecessors others knew it too so he knew that if if there was if something was to be done around cancer he might might as well start with its most one of its most measurable forms and therefore he gravitated towards acute lymphoblastic leukemia the other reason was of course that this was a this was a surgically un disease that was surgically unamenable surgeons couldn't operate on blood you can't take blood out obviously um so there was no it was it was as the book points out the the the leukemia itself was like a pariah between disciplines the hematologist the doctors of the blood uh passed it on to the oncologist and the oncologist passed it back to the hematologists and and and the children were sort of stuck in this in in in this in this between in between space and so it was that that was another Advantage it was a disease that had nothing you know it was sort of a pariah between disciplines actually not unlike Farber himself he was also moving between pathology and medicine all the time and so um Sydney Farber had a very key Insight um and that is that he imagined that there were chemicals in the world that could turn off or selectively kill cancer cells while sparing normal cells um this was a very important Insight the so-called penicillin for cancer this was a time when America was just emerging out of this is 1947 1948 just emerging out of the sort of the late tale of the war um and and it was a moment um actually very important in the history of cancer because cancer is a silent disease it's an invisible disease these um there's an important anecdote in the book um when Fanny Rosenau a breast cancer Advocate calls up the New York Times and she says um I'm a breast cancer survivor I would like to have a a group of people who um meet a meeting group of of breast cancer survivors and there's a long hold and the times editor puts her on hold and then the society editor comes on the phone and she's Fanny Rosena is puzzled and the society editor says well M Rosen now you know we can't print the word breast cancer in the times what if we said that this was a meeting of women with diseases of the chest wall um so this is this is this is 1950 uh this is the atmosphere that Farber is working in he's looking for a u he's looking for a chemical that will turn on or turn on or turn off these malignant cells and he finds an important Ally um and that Ally is a man named yell subar um uh kind of interestingly forgotten in medical history and an Indian Doctor Who had come to Boston um he had actually applied for um he had applied for a fellowship in the school of tropical health and Medicine um and not realizing that actually Boston was far from tropical um and and so and this is true he came from Madras he came from on a boat um landed up here in the middle of the winter uh almost really froze to death his first winter uh he lived in a in a in a kind of Garrett uh underneath a a house in in Brooklyn I've been to his Brookline I've been to his uh his apartment um and U yela subar uh was denied tenure at Harvard um uh and then went off to a pharmaceutical company up north in New York and was synthesizing these chemicals which turned out to be the precisely the chemicals that Farber was looking for so these were chemicals called antifolates Farber had figured out that folic acid was one of the chemicals that the blood that leukemia cells required for their growth so leukemia cells were very dependent on the growth of folic acid um and and therefore an antifolate an antagonist to folic acid would would perhaps act as a chemotherapeutic drug and he then contacted yela who was up north actually Farber was one of y's few friends while he was in in in Boston he contacted yella and yella sent him the first vials of this new drug this antifolate folate called aminopterin and Farber without actually really knowing very much just rolled up his sleeves and he began to inject these these tremendously ill kids with these antifolates um and he saw these brief tantalizing remissions these kids who were these children two or three years old by the way this is the time when I had my my daughter was three um so a very emotional connection to all of this and I I I had been in the wards and seen three-year-old children with lymphoblastic leukemia and they at uh now as as I'll tell you later I'm going to I'm I'm going to split the suspense a second this is a curable disease this is a 80 this is a disease that carries an 80 or 90% cure rate um but it was 100% lethal in farber's time and he began to inject these children with antifolates and he saw these tantilizing remissions uh the kids would go and have a remission 5 months 6 months 12 months and then they would relapse and die again um and so so here comes a little personal story which is not in the book um which is that now this I knew I had constructed these pieces of history from talking to farber's family from picking up records there's a trail of paper trail but now who was the first child to be treated and where would this did this child exist um so in the papers farb refers to this child as a child called RS and then my quest became find RS um because I I felt as if um I couldn't write this book if I couldn't find RS RS was going to be the central character in my book but how does one find him this child lived for 4 months after uh Sydney Farber injected him with antifolates and then died afterwards um so um so I began to put in uh advertisements on list serves around Boston I thought you know maybe the parents were alive maybe I knew I knew the child had a twin who didn't have leukemia interestingly um called es so I kept putting out little ads saying that you know if if you're es you happen to have a brother who had leukemia in 1948 please contact me if you have if you have a parent if you had a father any connection and there was nothing there was no response so I got dejected and I went actually to India for to my parents house um for um a vacation and someone told me yella remember yella the chemist someone told me y's biographer and friend lived two or three blocks from my parents house in India so I said fine since I'm not doing nothing except writing this book obsessively every day might as well go and visit y's biographer so I went to y's biographer and y's biographer tells me that we had a long conversation at the end of the conversation he says well you know I was at farber's Institute and I met Dr Farber in 1952 or 53 and while I was there um I was taking notes and actually he gave me a roster of all the patients that he was treating for for leukemia um and in that roster if if you look through the roster he he kept little cuting uh was an article from the Boston Sunday Herald from 1948 containing the picture of Robert Sandler um and so that picture is reproduced in the book it's actually one the first pictures of the book and in fact the book is dedicated to Robert Sandler 1945 to 48 and to those who came before and after him um that's that's a great story but the story gets even crazier because last Friday when this event was announced um I get a phone call from my publish from my publisher who says you won't believe it h hang on the line and it's uh Robert Sandler's mother and his brother uh and they contacted me uh uh last Friday and and and she was crying and um because she had lost obviously the one of her twins the other twin had survived and um and she said something very interesting um I mean I spoke with her with her with her son so through her son she said something interesting um she said uh that uh when the child had died um it was in their their faith was not to perform an autopsy um and Sydney Farber apparently begged them to perform an autopsy um and she was really shaken by it and she had lived she's 88 I think or 89 for 86 years after the death of her child she had lived with the guilt of having submitted her child's body to an autopsy um and she said to me that um but of course that autopsy turns out to be very crucial because it was through autopsies like that that Farber finally figured out what the next step was how to how to use the next drug in the extra mission and so she said to me this book really brings that entire story that 87y old open story to a close because finally at the end of 87 years she says I can now put that idea to rest that I had allowed my my dying child my my dead son to uh to be opened up for an autopsy so I thought it was a very moving Testament to what books can do uh at times um so um I'm going to now tell you I'm going to read a little bit from a chapter called farber's gauntlet um in which I I describ that case I describ the case and remember the only thing and this is part of um you know this is part of the uh part of learning to write for me was how do you take a paper which is about uh two paragraphs two and a half paragraphs long a case description in the paper and how do you convert it into something that comes alive uh that becomes a story and and and and what what what tools do you use so that we now that Robert Sandler becomes a character not just a RS in a scientific paper but a real human being and his family becomes a real human being I'm going to read read a little bit and then then I'll do another section and then we'll stop and take questions I won't go very long so here he is so it turned out that um because I knew his name I could figure out his mother's name um uh because it turned out that in the article uh his mother's name was listed uh from the Boston Sunday Herald so Helen Sandler's name was was listed in there you'll find her picture in the book um for people who have the book it's in the picture section um in the second page uh over here I'm going to just lift it up and show you so that's that's Helen Sandler with the two twins um and she um and so so I knew and then by because Boston has very good records of death and because the Boston Public Library um is a resource provides a resource Source um and actually has a phone not a phone directory but a directory of addresses from 1948 you I could very quickly figure out and I I could figure out where the child had lived and then in 15 minutes um I could go back by the way there's a very important metaphorical quality in the story which is that the fact that I found this child a thousand miles away or 6,000 miles away from Boston um was very important to me actually in writing the book because it reminded me about the entire process of anything that happens in the book you're looking in One Direction inevitably find things 6,000 M away and they get connected up um so it was very for me it was very personally inspiring because I kept saying to myself if I if I can do this if I can find someone 6,000 miles away then I can unearth any piece of this history I mean you know with a little bit of luck um but so I had figured out and then by by doing this I figured out where the child had lived because I could find his address and by finding his address I could actually go to the house and again this was very important to writing the book every time I was stuck I would often go so um for instance in in writing about the trials the Malmo trials the famous mamography trials in Sweden which were very important in the history of mography I decided that I would go to Malmo um because again I was stuck and there's no nothing else to you know there's no other way to move the book and it was in Malmo that a woman told began to tell me what it was like to undergo the first screening Trials of mamography and if you didn't go to Malmo you'd never discover this um another example of this is um you know there was a there's a there's a section in the book which talks about uh the link between smoking and lung cancer which was really invisible in the 1950s people didn't know it no one suspected it um had become invisible actually and um again to enliven that um I decided that I would go to I would go to England where the link was first discovered really to the building where the link was being discovered in the 1950s and the 1940s and 1950s and it was only by being in that building you realize what a short distance that building is phys physically from the ship building and the Actuarial industry the insurance industry of England which is located in thread needle Street and it turns out that's not a coincidence it turns out that the very equations that allow us to solve statistical um uh relationships risks um are in fact B borrowed in epidemiology they're borrowed from the insurance industry because when a ship was out to sea the actuaries had to make an estimate what the likelihood of of the ship coming back was and fortunes would be would be lost when the ship came when the ship didn't come back or half the cargo sank and so there were all these assessments of risk being carried out along thread needle Street which were which were related to the fact is how does one manage how does one estimate risk what is the function of risk and of course that allows us risk is what we measured when we measure when we talk about cancer risk right when we talk about so another story in which you know unless you physically travel to a space you never you would never figure out what what the what the geography is or what its interior landscape is but back to back to Robert Sandler so he lived in he lived in Dorchester as it turned out um and so here here is here is the description that comes out from a collection of going to the going to the space looking up the weather report where they where it existed uh finding uh little bits and pieces and interviews all of which then get put in a big giant grinder and come out as a story as it were so s miles Southwest of the Longwood hospitals in Boston the town of Dorchester is a typical sprawling New England suburb a triangle wedged between the suti industrial settlements to the west and the greay Green Bays of the Atlantic to its East in the late 1940s waves of Jewish and Irish immigrants it happened to be that uh Sandler's parents were Jewish immigrants ship Builders iron costers his father was a ship Builder Railway Engineers fishermen and Factory workers settled in Dorchester occupying rows of brick and clapboard houses that snake their way up bluhill Avenue Dorchester reinvented itself as a quintessential Suburban family town with parks and playgrounds along the river a golf course a church and a synagogue on Sunday afternoons families converged at Franklin Park to walk through its leafy Pathways or watch ostriches polar bears and tigers at its zoo and again this is drawn from little pieces of news from Dorchester from the 1930s and 1940s and newspaper clippings and so forth on August 16th 1947 that day I knew because it was in the paper um in a house across from the zoo the child of a ship working in the Boston yards fell mysteriously ill with a low-grade fever that waxed and waned over two weeks without pattern followed by an increasing lethargy and palor Robert Sandler was 2 years old his twin Elliot was an active cherubic toddler in perfect health so now we pick up from farber's paper uh because he begins to describe this uh because every paper is a case history so there he is telling his story in scientific terms which I'm now translating into into non-scientific terms 10 days after his first fever Robert's condition worsened significantly his temperature climbed higher his complexion turned from Rosie to a spec milky white and all of this is actually inous paper he was brought to Children's Hospital in Boston his spleen a fist siiz organ that stores and makes blood usually barely palpable under the rib cage was visibly enlarged heaving down like an overfilled bag a drop of blood under fiber under farber's microscope revealed the identity of his illness thousands of immature lymphoid leukemic blasts were dividing in a frenzy their chromosomes condensing and uncondensed like tiny clenched and unclenched fists Sandler arrived at Children's Hospital just a few weeks after Farber had received his first package from letterly we knew that because yela had kept records of when he sent the packages across to um Sydney farber's Hospital on September 6th 1947 this is from the paper again Farber began to inject Sandler with teroy aspartic acid or paa the first of letterly antifolates U and there's a brackets here consent to run a clinical trial for a drug even a toxic drug was not required parents were occasionally cursorily informed about a trial children were almost never informed or consulted the nurenberg code for human experimentation requiring explicit voluntary consent from patients was drafted interestingly on August 9th 1947 less than a month from The paa Trial from farber's trial so Farber is sitting here the the protocols for human voluntary consent are being drafted across the Atlantic uh Farber uh in Boston had it is it is doubtful that Farber in Boston had ever heard of such a required code he would eventually hear about it of course everyone eventually hear about it but there was no such thing uh the drug paa had little effect over the next month Sandler turned increasingly lethargic he developed a limp the result of leukemia pressing down on his spinal cord joint aches appeared and then violent migrating pains then the leukemia burst through one of his bones in his thigh causing a fracture and unleashing a blindingly intense Indescribable Pain by December the case seemed hopeless the tip of Sandler spleen more dense than ever with leukemic cells dropped down to his pelvis he was withdrawn listless swollen and pale on the verge of death when Elliot called me up he said how did you know about the bone fracture um uh because he his his only memory from his childhood he said I have only one memory we shared a room in Dorchester um with two adjacent uh carts and they were 3 years old 2 and a half years old he said much of that is a blur and maybe even this memory is mythical but he says one night there was one night when his brother start was so ill and screaming so violently that in fact they had brought in uh EMT what what be EMT in that day and age to that to their U to their home to take the brother to farber's hospital in fact that was the night probably most likely that was the night that he had the leukemic fracture this is a time when leukemia bursts through your bones and actually causes what's called a pathological fracture um on December 28th however Farber received a new version of the antifolate from subar and Kil U this one was called aminopterin a chemical with a small change uh from the structure of paa Farber snatched the drug as soon as it arrived and began to inject the boy with it hoping at best for a minor reprieve in his cancer the response was marked the white cell count which had been climbing astronomically 10,000 in September 20,000 in November and nearly 70,000 in December suddenly stopped rising and hovered at a plateau and then even more remarkably the counts actually started to drop the leukemic blasts gradually flickering out in the blood and then all but disappearing by New Year's Eve the count had dropped to nearly 1 Sixth of its peak value bottoming out at nearly normal level the cancer had not vanished under the microscope there were still malignant white cells but it had temporarily abated frozen into hematological stalemate in the Frozen Boston winter on January 13 1948 again we pick it up from farber's paper Sandler returns returned to the clinic walking on his own for the first time in two months his spleen and R liver had shrunk so dramatically that his clothes Farber noted had become loose around the abdomen his bleeding had stopped his appetite turned ravenous as if he were trying to catch up on six months of lost meals by February Farber noted the child's alertness nutrition and activity were equal to his twins for a brief month or so Robert Sandler and Elliot Sandler seemed identical again so um so that's the story and that's a little bit about sort of behind the scenes of what happens when you when you write a book like this um I'm going to skip forward and introduce you to one major other character um and that is U Mary Lasker um U and so farber's emergence from farber's emergence from the basement laboratory into the the Limelight of medicine uh is in some sense was his first experiment uh but Farber performed actually what I call his second experiment his second experiment which I think is actually just as crucial and just as important um and this was not an experiment in science but an experiment in media um and so he he realized having sent having invented essentially these chem therapeutic drugs that he needed to launch a national platform or at least a local platform to begin with to attack cancer um and he began to then look for collaborators who would allow him to do this and he found an incredible collaborator early on and that was a variety Club of Boston this was a club of uh essentially Movie Makers again the postwar Boom in movie making had begun to pour money into the coffers of the variety Club these these men were becoming very wel and in fact in their past they had adopted a child um and made children's causes a big part of their uh part of their General uh cause this is the variety club and so Farber thought this was an ideal Ally because he could then hook up with the variety club and thereby launch a local a large local platform against cancer um and so he was he then again figuring out the past figuring out the idea that the variety Club had had acquired this adopted child and thereby created an icon Farber began to look for his own icon a child with cancer who would carry the message um and unfortunately when he went upstairs to his Wards I mean these were children with leukemia being injected with antifolates and they were desperately ill people say they were throwing up lost their hair barely able to live let alone be a vast mascot for or icon for cancer but there was one child who was not being treated for leukemia who he found and this child came from Maine and um had you know had was being treated for a different cancer the only problem was his name was AAR Gustafson um and so so partly to conceal his name and partly to give him anonymity but also partly to create a name that was actually recognizable far rechristened him Jimmy and so this was the birth of the Jimmy fund um and within by using the variety club and by using actually baseball U which was a big Boston phenomenon Remains the big Boston phenomenon uh by using so again you see farber's mind at work here uh he is he has he has he has a child that he's going to create anonymize and be and make the the icon for cancer but then he quickly leans in pulls in movies and then he quickly leans in and he pulls in actually this the baseball um Ted Williams most importantly there was a change uh in the baseball in the history of baseball and Boston which I won't go into but but Ted Williams eventually and then he incorporates all of this he puts it all into a big mixer and out comes the Jimmy fund and has be pops out and within the first few within the first few months it's generated enormous amount of money for what it was um and so this is this is farber's second experiment and what what is happening at this time of course is that Farber is emerging himself from the basement into public prominence and I remember the story about Fanny Rosenau that I told you that mirrors the emergence of cancer from its basement as it were to public prominence this exact period of time and that finally tells us why I chose Farber I chose Farber because of this metaphorical parallel because his journey out from his basement to the inventions of chemotherapy and subsequently to the Jimmy fund and eventually through Mary Lasker into the into the the public prominence and the war on cancer is precisely the journey that cancer itself makes in a more metaphorical sense from it's hidden in the basement disease that couldn't be talked about to its vast public face today um and that again by using Sydney farber's story you could then tell the larger story of of what was happening to cancer at large um and at that point of time somewhere we don't know the exact date actually he meets um This Woman This magnetic character from from New York uh Mary Lasker Mary Lasker uh was described to me most recently as a woman who had never heard the word no um she was an very unusual for her time she had made a lot of money independently um as an entrepreneur she figured out actually just um just after the war she figured out that actually in in between the wars and after the war she figured out that women had to needed to go to work um and her genius was that she began to create what was prefab dresses uh pre-cut prefab dresses so that you wouldn't have to go to your tailor and Stitch you could just go you cash and carry and that was an incredible piece genius and of course you you can understand how you know how the history of feminism is already working its way into the history of cancer uh through Mary Lasker but ultimately through many many other channels so um nonetheless so Mary Lasker independently wealthy marries Albert Lasker who is an advertising executive also very wealthy and Mary lasar turns begins to turn her attention onto the war on cancer um and um she she decides that she's going to use all her resources her philanthropy she's going to she's going to take philanthropy to to an enormous new scale and she's going to Lobby uh Congress to unleash funds for the war on cancer and she finds in Sydney Farber the Ally that she's looking for I describe it as really the coming together of two halves of a map because Farber provides the scientific legitimacy Mary laska provides the the urgency and the the philanthropic energy and these two things come together and they really launch and then and and the end uh they begin to really actively campaign for the war on cancer and I reproduce uh for people of the book I reproduce this very famous advertisement that they launched in 1969 which says Mr Nixon you can cure cancer um and at the bottom the signed by alasker and Farber and various other people and at the bottom it says um why don't we cure cancer for its for America's 200th birthday what a wonderful gift that would be um and so right from the adversan you understand what's going on there's a kind of optimism a kind of huis this is America that's just put human beings on the moon um solved the the atomic bomb um and therefore the idea that if you pour resources into a project into into a problem so-called goal directed or targeted research you will eventually crack the problem and cancer uh meanwhile childhood leukemia has been cured by combination chemotherapy and so they get a real boost to this idea that cancer is basically a puzzle waiting to be solved and there's a penicillin waiting somewhere um and then from there on the rest of the book goes on to describe how that picture gets more and more complicated and advances are made but that that moment of hubris still haunts oncology over and over again we keep keep coming back to it to some extent um and one of the things of course we realize that there is never that there's no one solution this idea of a penicillin for cancer breaks down and we begin to understand cancer as a much more complex entity not as one disease but as a family of disease and and we enter that new era finally in the last sort of last section of the book which I will not give away I'm going to do one more reading and then I'm going to stop and take questions and this is from the very last chapter in the book um and uh Nan my editor said to me you know it is a golden rule of writing that you never introduce a new character in the last chapter of your book and she said well okay but for you one time we make an exception so it turns out that there is a new character but it's a patient and um you know sometimes you write books and you break some rules and that's fine um so so this is a woman who I met actually at the Dan of Farber across the across town I was treating her um she had a very aggressive variant of uh saroma stomach cancer and had an incredible response to a New Drug a molecularly targeted drug a striking response and then she relapsed uh um and then she came to Boston around a second relapse to try another experimental drug to see if she could get a third relapse um so this is a real fighter um and a woman whose life had been extended by about six or five or six years um during during this period by a novel experimental drug but now had relapsed the third time and was no longer treatable she was actually fine she had finished her treatment um when I recall that final conversation with Germaine embarrassingly enough the objects seemed to stand out more vividly than the words a hospital room with its sharp smell of dis of disinfectant and hand soap the Steely overhead light a wooden side table on Wheels piled with pills books newspaper clippings jewelry and postcards her room wallpapered with flowers wallpaper with pictures of her beautiful house in Montgomery and of her daughter a standard issue plastic Hospital picture filled with a bunch of sunflowers perched on a table by her side Germaine as I remember her was sitting by the the bed one leg dangling casually down wearing her usual eccentric and arresting combination of clothes and some large and unusual pieces of jewelry her hair was carefully arranged she looked formal Frozen and perfect like a photograph of someone in the hospital waiting to die she seemed content she laughed and she joked she made a nasogastric tube she made wearing a nasogastric tube seem effortless and somehow dignified only years later in writing this book could I finally put into words why that meeting left me so uneasy why the gestures in that room seemed Larger than Life why the objects seemed like symbols why Germaine herself seemed like an actor playing a part nothing I realized was incidental the characteristics of Germaine's personality that had once seemed spontaneous and impulsive were in fact calculated and almost reflexes reflexive responses to her illness her clothes were loose and Vivid because they were decoys against the growing outline of the tumor in her abdomen her necklace was distractingly large so as to pull attention away from her cancer her room was Topsy Turvy with bobles and pictures the hospital pitcher filled with flowers the card stacked to the wall because without them it would devolve into the anonymity of any other room in any other hospital she had dangled her leg at that precise posed angle because the tumor had invaded her spine and begun to paralyze her other leg making it impossible for her to sit any other way her casualness was studied her jokes were rehearsed her had tried to humiliate her it had made her Anonymous and seemingly humorless it had sentenced her to die an unsightly death in a freezing hospital room thousands of miles away from home she came from the south she had responded with a Vengeance moving to be always one step ahead trying to outwit it it was like watching someone locked in a chess game every time Germaine's disease moved imposing yet another terrifying constraint on her she made an equally assertive move in return the illness acted she reacted it was a morbid hypnotic game again game that had taken over her life she dodged one blow only to be caught by the other and she too was like Carol's Red Queen stuck pedaling furiously just to keep still in one place Germaine seemed that evening to have captured something essential about our struggle against cancer that to keep Pace with this malady you need to keep inventing and Reinventing learning and unlearning strategies Germaine fought cancer obsessively cany desperately fiercely madly brilliantly zealously as if channeling all the fierce inventive energy of generations of men and women who had fought cancer in their past and would fight it in the future her quest for a cure had taken her on a strange and Limitless journey through internet blogs and teaching hospitals chemotherapy and clinical trials halfway across the country through a landscape more desolate desperate and disquieting than she had ever imagined she had deployed every last morsel of energy to the quest mobilizing and remobilizing the dregs of her courage summoning her will and wit and Imagination until that final evening she had stared into the Vault of her resourcefulness and found it empty in that last night hanging on to her life by no more than a tenuous thread summoning all her strength and dignity as she wheeled herself to the privacy of her bathroom it was as if she had encapsulated the essence of a 4,000 year old war and that's the end of the book Thank you for coming so Dana was uh an important person he was a he was a fun he was a f he was a funer he he was Charles Dana um and very important in the history of Boston it was hard to put every character as you can imagine so that's why I didn't put him so that's the Dana part of the Dana farbor but an important character in the history of the Dana farbor yeah I mean this is a very important question because of course um it was Susan sonag among others who first pointed out that there was a punitive quality of a battle metaphor um if you if you if you visualize yourself as a battle in a battle against cancer and you lose that battle then you become a loser um and therefore all the punitive qualities of that then become burdens for you my general feeling is Susan is a very important mentor to this book an invisible Mentor an important Mentor however um my feeling is in some ways I I wrote the book both as homage but also challenge to Susan because I feel as if cancer and and this is unusual when you read her book too I feel as if cancer is a disease replete in metaphors and getting away from metaphor I mean the word cancer comes from crab it's a metaphorical word um and it's because as we point out in the book it's because hypocrates thought that a tumor was a crab buried under the skin and the blood vessels around it were the legs of the crab um so right from every piece of language we use around this is a is a is metaphorical language um and so there is a sense in which resisting that metaphor becomes itself a a battle um and for and I'll tell you what my personal thoughts about this are my personal thoughts are for some patients a battle metaphor is crucial for other patients it's punitive and I say if it works for you and if if if that's what if that's what what's needed for for your resilience to be uh to to come out then use it um and if it's not then don't use it there is no archetypal battle there is no archetypal metaphor and yet much like there's no archetypal cancer and there's no archetypal patient everyone's relationship to the disease is vastly different and one way we I think we can Empower ourselves and our patients is to not tell them what metaphors to use but to allow them to invent their own and and and there are plenty to be invented so that's my long answer to your question so um we are um we work in a team uh I see patients half a day a week um I run a laboratory which focuses on leukemia um and my small story about that is so what happens is that for uh so I have a colleague we we split our patients um but just to give you just to give you a a sense of what what the book tour is like um I was on call through Thanksgiving um and um I have always chosen Thanksgiving to be my call time because I was not born in this country um so it felt as if it felt as if number one uh everyone else had to do something so I might as well be in the hospital um and now it's become very different of course now I have a family um and you know I'm part of the fabric of this country and so but but I kept it up as a sort of tradition myself because it's my own way of dealing with Thanksgiving I'm happy to do it so I landed on the plane from Toronto um and the reason it was in Canada was because they don't have Thanksgiving at the same time so I land on the plane in Toronto and I was immediately on call so so so I think what's nice about doing that is that it keeps your perspective you think you've written a good book but there are people who have much deeper questions and issues in the hospital so it was very good reminder to be humble I think uh as far as day-to-day work in patients you know I talked a little bit about this earlier I referred to a little bit about this earlier I think the understanding The Narrative quality of medicine was very crucial um and it and it if if the one thing that this Brook reminded me uh over and over again was that if we lose the narrative quality of medicine then something will be terribly lost um and and we need to restore it and there are dozens of ways to restore it one of them is by writing the other way you know there are programs in narrative medicine that ow you to do this um I I heard this statistic some of some of you might have heard this um number um uh this was a great and important study um when uh they recorded when when uh scientists or researchers recorded uh patients giving their their stories to doctors and estimated the amount of time when the doctor first interrupts the patient so how many how many seconds or minutes occurs between the time you start saying you what's happening what's your story why are you here from that point of time to the first time that a patient is interrupted I anyone have a guess yeah so it's 18 seconds uh so the number was 18 seconds um it has increased somewhat after that study because so embarrassing so but I think I think the newest numbers are like 21 seconds or 30 that's barely a sentence um so um and you know I'm not saying that anyone and I'm sure if you're if you're in medicine you know that no one is above it we all interrupt that is that is part of you know what part of the profession involves uh cutting people short because of a variety of reasons U but nonetheless um but it's a reminder uh for me to um to do to to resist that Force um and it's a reminder that again going back to the the the thought that I had earlier the shamanic aspects of Medicine um cannot be replaced even even if we invent the most incredible pieces of Technology we will we will be un I can guarantee you that we will be unable to replace the shamanic aspects of medicine and they are so stitched into our anthropological Consciousness that replacing them will really mean the death of human beings um so anyway I think it's both um because in fact one of the things that we forget to remember one of the things that we forget is that that patients also expect a story back from you um and that's very crucial um so much as listening to a story is important reconstructing your own story of an illness is as important in fact that is what um that is what uh doc that is what one of the practices of medicine is so in in in a very abstracted sense you might imagine that the practice of medicine is a transaction of stories in which you tell me a story and say this and this happened to me and then I tell you well my here here is my return story to you which explains some of this history um and both of them uh are not only narrative but there there series of hypotheses strung together right so there I'm saying to you the way that I view what you just told me is the following you know you might come to me and say well in fact I've had you know I've had a rash for 15 days and I don't know what happened etc etc I was been traveling here or came back at and and did something and I tell you back a story saying I think that in fact the rash is because you've changed your detergent um or I think you're having a rash because you traveled to a foreign country and got exposed to this bacteria that you don't can't even see right now but if we did the following blood test we may be able to pick it up so I think I think there's a transactional quality about these these storytelling um and they happen all the time in medicine I think that's what's happening people are constantly exchanging stories uh yeah I mean there were you know one thing that I that that that's important in the book is that Sydney for Mar lask are complicated characters the idea of pushing money onto a problem throwing money into a problem not necessarily uh didn't necessarily work and yet without Sydney Farber and Mary Lasker we wouldn't be where we are today so that complexity conveying that complexity is itself uh one of the one of the major efforts in the book I hope we do I mean the question of money is often brought up I just want to give you a couple of numbers that you might want want want to think about um the National Cancer budget uh for this year is about $5 billion um let's multiply that by 10 U because um you know let's multiply 10 because you know there are clinical trials going on hospitals etc etc so you come to $50 billion um we just spent ,000 billion on this war um so uh by whatever account either that's 20 fold or 200 fold uh the number of men and women who will die of cancer in America is 600,000 this year um so it will affect one and four of us one and three of us depending on how you cut the statistics so I'm not going to belabor the point that people often say well aren't we pouring enough be pouring money into cancer research let's keep that into perspective I I agree we are and I think there needs to be streamlining of resources absolutely every discipline needs streamlining of resources um but before we lose perspective those are what the real numbers suggest to us um I'm actually no longer at the Farber so um but in institutes around the nation um particularly large Comprehensive Cancer Centers there has been has been an an attempt to create integrative medicine programs um a strong attempt um but that said I would the one thing I I I one thing I do feel very strongly about is um it's very important that every time we integrate new forms of medicine uh we're talking about metaphors they can become punitive so here's one that's very very very common you aren't you aren't responding well to chemotherapy because you're stressed right or or or even more acutely in the 1940s and 1950s uh you have cancer because you're overstressed this was actually the reason that people said you had people had gastric cancer right so so I always I I would make a plea to people with who practice integrative medicine and and and other forms of medicine incling surgeons and chemotherapist let's not let's not invite another punitive metaphor for disease that's already burdened with metaphors I think it's a wonderful thing to have integrative medicine but if the implication of Integrative Medicine is you know that we're going to now tell patients that unless you go to the acupuncturist you know you're not going to get relieved of the stress that is burdening you and un you know making you unable to get Che chemotherapy or get your surgery um I think that's a very complicated story so that's my plea to people who practice integrated medicine well I mean you know ask um that's a question I think that's sort of beyond the book uh I one thought that I have have about it is that um the one of the most chilling realizations of cancer biology which emerged in the 1970s was that the genes that allow embryos to grow and our hands to grow and our brains to grow if you mutate and distort those genes if you activate them or inactivate them you get cancer um so in other words you take you take the genes and this was a very very pivotal realization of the 1970s um in in before that we had fantastically hoped or imagined that cancer would only be something exogenous something coming from outside like a virus for instance um the fact that it's not that in fact it emerges from that's stitched into the human chromosome and it emerges only out of these very genes of course I'm not saying that I mean carcinogens activate these genes so there is of course a relationship with the environment with the outside but there's also the outside impinging on the inside as it were um and so when you asked the question about purpose the only thing I can say is that these genes have very vital functions in normal biology and therefore are have have a peculiar Poise between performing these vital functions and when they get distorted becoming cancerous I don't know if that's a purpose or not but it certainly tells you why these genes even exist why cancer is part of our bodies part of our societies part of ourselves thank you [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: F4IIhwEck5A (https://youtu.be/F4IIhwEck5A) ===

[Applause] well thank you all it's a delight to be here again Lov to see some familiar faces and some new ones and our Our Guest in conversation this evening is sidat Muki uh who is a cancer physician uh still sees patients uh you know keeps his bedside manner brushed up uh and also runs a lab looking at stem cells both of these at columia University in New York and and Sid is also WR as some of you all know so his book The Emperor of all maladies uh was on times's list of 100 most important books ever written uh so no pressure there and um uh won the Pulitzer Prize and also as we were discussing just earlier also won the guardian first book prize which I think is a is a good Accolade for a book prize that crosses over between uh literature uh and scientific and factual books so we're delighted to have sidong and you know we'll chat between us uh we hope you'll pay attention for a little while there'll be time for questions in the second half um and it's not we're not going to give you a tutorial there's no whiteboard we haven't brought any PowerPoint but I did think it was worth at least to begin with if you don't mind Sid reviewing some of the basic facts about this stuff because you know just to sort of level the playing field out and I'm going to ask what I let me Begin by asking you Ian Fleming or John lar Ian Fleming you're asking me Ian Fleming or John carry I'm going to answer you Johnna carry better on love uh in my view and you inflaming very good so it begins not sure which way the house went on that one right so um you you in this lovely book that you've uh written and will be signing afterwards the Gene and intimate history you talk about the gene the atom and the bite as being with a Y as being the the fundamental units uh you know of of the Contemporary World we'll leave uh bites and atoms aside for the moment or I think we'll return to both of them a little bit later um but can I ask what I think is probably a deceptively simple question s uh can you just explain to us briefly what a gene is would you mind if that's not too we have an hour and a half so you know a full description um really merits longer than we have uh in brief the gene is a unit of hereditary information um that sounds rather abstract let me put it in very Concrete in a very concrete way it is the unit of information that you transmit to your children um I call it a unit because it's indivisible you can't break it up into smaller parts it is transmitted whole generally speaking although it can acquire it can be swapped around with other with its sister genes Etc but really it's transmitted whole to your to your children and it determines some aspect of your children's physiology or appearance or fate or future um it there are many many other things there are many other properties of genes by which they're defined but this for this audience for this sort of discussion I think that's where probably the the the discussion should begin okay and a couple of things about that definition which I think already interesting we've talked about the atom and the bite which I said we wouldn't decompose and come back to but we will immediately they also have constituent parts and we'll be talking about DNA and stuff like that but but I wonder if you can just expand briefly on this notion of it's being indivisible I think that's the word you used of it's being unary what do you mean by a gene being un given that it's made up of these letters and the codes and things we'll talk about later right so a gene as as many of us know is made up of it's it has a chemical form it's made up of a um string of um nucleotides actg and if you were a gene if you were to look at a gene or to read a gene it would it would read like a g c c g g c c t g g g g etc etc um if you take the entire Human Genome actg Etc that would be about three billion odd acgs okay in the welcome collection there is a printed out version of the human genome isn't there with the little little letters and it's exact many yeah volumes if you look at that um it would be I estimate around 66 full volumes of the encyclopedia branica okay so one way you could imagine it is that you're sitting in this room and right up to the walls every wall contains these 66 full sets not volume 66 full sets of the encyclopedia Botanica if you were to pick out one of these encyclopedias you would read act gcct g g g etc etc now from that information is obviously inscrutable to you and me for the most part just letters just letters four letters repeated over and over again again and yet if you put those four letters into an embryonic cell mhm in the form of this chemical divided into 23 chromosomes that embryonic cell astonishingly can build you and me with our commonalities the fact that we have one nose and 10 fingers and our differences the fact that you and I don't resemble each other you like the car likeing fundamentally fundamental division there is a gene for that not um um but but fundamental differences between you and me and the variation that we see in ourselves if you change five letters 10 letters 25 letters some repeat somewhere in that 66 volume set of the encyclop 66 set of the encyclopedia you could fall become a victim to a deadly disease like Huntington's disease if you had another variation you could fall you know you could fall prey to cystic fibrosis I still want to press you though on this what is a gene thing so and I'm asking this as you know as a humble neuroscientist therefore like most of you not somebody who gets genetics who understands this stuff so here's the question I've got for you when you're outside a domain it's impossible to know which things inside the domain are contested and which things everyone agrees on yes so if I lined up three geneticists would you all agree on the definition of a gene and that would be a dull question question and you just want to move on to the interesting stuff or is the question of what a gene is the definition of a gene is that still an interesting question for you guys is it something that's Dynamic that's changing over recent time is it contested and the answer is that um the answer is that they would Mo three geneticists in the room would agree largely on what a gene is okay okay they would have some disagreement about how things are evolving there new information coming out of a gene that um that is coming out over time so would agree that it's a unit of heredity that it specifies information specify it specifies information about physiology or Anatomy or some important characteristic of of of information biological information a gene need not be a continuous stretch of DNA in you know 50 years ago if you asked them well does a gene need to be one long stretch of DNA most people would say yes we now know that's not true for most genes in fact they're broken up into into sort of little entities and they get um they get stitched up together when they actually uh perform their function um does one gene have to specify a single function no it can specify multiple functions does one function have to have one gene attached to it no one function can be the product of many genes so there would be disagreements around these kinds of questions but the idea that a gene is a specifies is a unit of information however that information is used subsequently in the physiology or the or the anatomy or the body of the individual would be generally agreed upon and then again I mean you know the book is lovely I enjoyed reading it enormously uh it's historical in part and we're not going to review and we' got enough trouble right getting the basic facts out we're not going to do the history of it but can I to to give you an analogy if we think about what an electron is right so many of us will remember the bore Atom from school which was like a sun and planets model you had the nucleus and the electrons whizzing around it and nowadays we're thinking quantum mechanics of fields of probability so in contemporary physics there's no way of describing uh an electron as little ball that whizzes around the bigger ball there's no balls or something but the electron is the same electron right you know through the history of physics in the 20th century 21 there's still an electron it's the same thing we just described it in different terms has it been the same thing this Gene through the recent history of genetics or has our understanding of what this thing is changed in the last 00 years so the the our understanding of the word Gene as a unit of heredity has not changed good that's important our understanding of what a gene does how a gene acts how it becomes functionally realized how it intersects with other genes to produce the complexities of human anatomy and physiology that has changed and will keep changing um you know the analogy that I give to um is is to the word encyclopedia right everyone here knows what an encyclopedia is we know exactly what an encyclopedia is we know what an encyclopedia does for the younger among it's like Wikipedia but it's written down and yet if I were to ask you how an encyclopedia Works how an encyclopedia has is updated in time people would say well that's been changing these days we update encyclopedias in a different way than we updated encyclopedias 20 years ago in fact if you look under the entry encyclopedia in encyclopedia that keeps changing right because of that reason right okay so there's a there's an internal recursion about it genes are a little bit like that we know what genes are at a fundamental level we know that they transmit hered information from from cell to cell and from parent to offspring but the exact way that the information is encoded what exactly it does keeps changing how much it engages what it engages what keeps changing so a simple way to think about it is you know a generally speaking genes produce messages um genes can be of have been often likened to a kind of hard copy they produce a soft copy of message called RNA It's usually the only way that a gene can exert its activity the RNA itself has some functions but it also produces uh as a consequence of uh other biological processes produces a thing called a protein proteins are the basis of are the are the machines of life um our hair is a particular color because of a protein our noses are built of proteins and interacting with other molecules Etc so proteins are kind of the workhorses of biological life genes essentially produce the carry the code to produce messages rnas which ultimately produce proteins and this sort of information cycle allows the existence of the creation of the maintenance of the building of then the repair of human bodies so it's interesting so I think we're getting the sense that the gene is you know it's not complete agreement between three genetic in but you kind of agree what it is you kind of agree what it Isa and it's we've it's kind of meant the same thing for quite a while let's say 100 and something years and and in fact that 100 Years of course predates uh DNA yes which we've all heard of so so weirdly the thing of which genes are made yes was discovered after we knew what they were right if that makes sense so tell us about how could that be how could we have a thing which we didn't know what it was made of and and you tell us about that relationship if you like between the DNA a very important question and the gene it's it comprise it's a very important question I'm going to talk about it historically and then give an analogy historically speaking it's very very important to to to understand this the gene was visualized in an AB as an abstraction before anyone knew its chemical or physical form because of course you can see that traits or features or characteristics are moving between Generations so you share your mom's nose or exactly even Aristotle knew that that in fact there was something about information that was moving and he really thought about it as information he was one of the first people it's an astonishing idea that Aristotle thought about um you know there's a famous quote I think Max perut said Aristotle should have been given the Nobel prize for the discovery of genes because cuz he really thought about it in an informational way he thought that there's got to be information that's moving and he recognized that occasionally that information can go away and come back so a grandparent could sub could transmit a the risk of a disease to a grandchild without the parent having that disease apparently when you think about thatal clock that that's cool yeah that's right so if you think about that very thoughtfully you've got to conclude that it's indivisible because it didn't go away with the mother or the parent it's got something remained that acrossed Generations two generations and then propped up again or cropped again this idea I mean this was recorded by Aristotle so back way back in in in history you clearly have the idea that there's an indivisible characteristic something information moving doesn't get diluted doesn't get broken up doesn't get sort of chopped up and it's moving across Generations so by the way just to be clear that's so important isn't it because the indivisibility of the gene which you said would be weird given that it's made up of all these letters why can't you but the fact that it get can get passed on means that there's something kind of UN about it that there is something there something that is transmitted hold so so and it was um and you know it's one of the most striking intellectuals of our time striking Scholars of our time who failed virtually all his exams gives us a lot of Hope who failed all his exams was this this monk uh working in a small town in now the Czech Republic called in Bruno named Gregor mendal began to study systematically this idea what what is it how is it that this characteristic moves from one organism down one generation to the next and Mendel's discovery which was astonishing for its time was that when he tracked it it really behaved in this indivisible manner much like others had hypothesized that it didn't get broken up that when when when he watched the movement through peas he could almost abstract it as a particle as something that was a physical particle he didn't know what it was made of he had no idea but think about put yourself in mle's shoes for a second and this is what I this is one of the things that I particularly love to do think of yourself you know you're a monk in an augustinian Abbey you believe that God made everything and you believe you're forced to believe you like to believe that this is how organisms arise organisms arise because some kind of seed is laid and the a kind of divine decree allows you to sort of flower into this into five hands and sorry five fingers in each hand and we'll come on to the modification thing later exactly five hands would be very nice um so there you are and all of a sudden based on simple experiments on pe's you begin to realize that in fact information is moving that things are not what they appear in fact across every generation the reason that the pea plant acquires a purple flower versus a white flower is because something has passed on almost like a physical particle of information and I I liken this in the book to kind of a whisper someone has said to the embryo you have got to produce a pink flower or a purple flower versus a white flower and that whisper that idea that acum of information then moves on to the next Generation in undivided so look I'm going to do something really really awful at this point which is I'm going to sort of gymnastically leap over uh Crick okay Jim Watson loved to Leap Frog Watson um uh nod at rosin Franklin and take it as red that we all know um the structure beautifully rendered on the screens around us the the double helix and that's the DNA the four letters that you talked about that in code and before we get to the kind of the questions that I think we all need to be wrestling with and you certainly argue we need to be wrestling with in contempor study there are two little bits of recent progress which I'd like you to talk us through briefly yes um one is this Gene editing thing or crisper as it's known and I would like you to do a little bit on epigenetics for us because I think these are two things which even those of us who consider ourselves to be fairly well versed in the gene thing would like a little bit more on and then we'll to how scared should we be what are we going to do next uh and and so on so would you mind giving us those two if you'd agree thank you so chrisper or something if you I will talk about three things actually I'll just add to this the idea of prenatal genetic diagnosis that would be great okay so prenatal genetic diagnosis crisper and epigenetic just so you know where we're going guys once we got those down we'll do the real okay so you know what a gene is now approximately it's carried in DNA this molecule which thankfully was printed in the right way there's a way that that people often make a mistake to make it left-handed um and this I think is right-handed good job intelligence Square for those of you on on the podcast check out the slide online I know you get a plus for that because it's a terrible error to make it go the other way around because molecules you know like left hands and right hands these are not superposable so anyway this is the I think it's the right uh it's the right direction okay it only coils that way it doesn't coil this way if that makes any sense to you anyway so so if you were to think about that thing that's up on the stage actually h as a as as a gene it would be as I said in DNA I would have actg cctg etc etc coiled along its coils its opposite strand the mirror image would be a mirror image of that um in a different different chemical form we don't need to worry about that okay in that code would be the code for one gene could code for could interact with four other genes and code for the shape of your nose about seven genes on we now know intersect with each other and approximately have interact with the environment and produce height they at least seven or eight about 10 or 15 interact with each other and interact with the environment and produce the color of your skin and so forth some of them are very unitary some of them only one gene drives one feature or appearance they're rare they're generally rare most of the other ones sort of talk to each other and act like machines molecular machines that will ultimately result in okay anatomy physiology Etc okay so that's that's step number one we know that now what does crisper allow you to do crisper is a molecular machine borrowed from the bacterial World which allows you to go into that DNA sequence that long stretch of acng and switch deliberately switch one part of the code and replace it potentially with some additional modifications replace it with a different code crisper is actually a pair of scissors there's nothing more fancy about it it's a pair of scissors it's a pair of scissors that recognizes one particular sequence in the human genome and clips the human genome or any genome it doesn't have to be human Clips the human genome or any genome at that sequence now remember when I say one particular sequence what I'm really thinking about is go back again to your 66 full sets of the encyclopedia Botanica what crisper does is it scans all those 66 sets and says on page 742 line seven par4 it reads A G GT I'm going to make a cut in that line and then there are natural processes in the human cells in human cells which will try to replace that information and when you replace that information you can switch it to a different kind of information so in other words you could therefore go into the 66 volume pick out Volume 7 go to page 746 pick page line one and say I'm going to replace act gcct for ACT T CCT that's what chrisper allows you to do and just two quick questions on chrisper and we're going to have to go through this quite fast because you know there's there's like the future of humanity to get to but you know on on the how surprising is that so for you know you know when somebody tells you a story and you're not sure whether you should go oo or not right so as a geneticist is that really new and really cool like if someone had told you 10 years ago that was going to be possible would you believe them we as geneticists as cancer biologists we had been dreaming of this technology for now six decades okay people had been dreaming of a technology that would allow you to basically go into the human genome recognize one part of it and change it and there was no one had imagined that anywhere in the world you would find this technology and it was hidden it was hidden because and I'll tell you it's a lovely story I'll go through it quickly but it's really worth knowing it was hidden because in the bacterial world in the microbiological world the competition for survival is so stiff that bacteria evolved he didn't know about it but bacteria evolved a mechanism of delivering lethal hits to viruses that invade them and the way they deliver these hits is to cut up the DNA of these viruses and bacteria because of the evolutionary pressures it had to be cut up in one particular place otherwise they would destroy themselves their own DNA or they would destroy the wrong DNA okay so basically bacteria evolved unbeknownst to us this pair of molecular scissors that would recognize as I said one piece of DNA one sequence of DNA in a in a long stretch and deliver a lethal cut into it and we suddenly understood this scientists suddenly began to understand this and began to realize that wait a second if you readapt this if you engineer or re-engineer this bacterial technology you can suddenly produce Cuts or mutations in the human genome deliberately at will so again I'm trying to give us the cast of characters that we need for the drama that that you argue that we feel we're playing out right now that was not a drama from 10 years ago so we can now go in and at will digitally as it were edit any element of the much like you can pick out a volume the encyclopedia chop up one piece replace that word with a different word character one now you could say let me just finish up one more thought it's helpful you could say well who cares uhhuh but what if that character was the difference between a normal version of the braa one gene brca1 Gene and the gene that causes breast cancer if you know that if you inherit copies two copies of that brca1 Gene your chance of getting breast cancer in your lifetime was 80% that's where it begins to matter what if that was that volume s page 19 was the sequence of the cystic fibrosis gene or a gene that carried a 100% chance of giving you Huntington's disease all of a sudden this business of editing the human genome rubbing out actg and making it atg becomes extremely consequential because you're dictating the fate of a child an unborn child potentially who has a risk of breast cancer or Huntington's disease and deciding that I'm going to erase that and replace it with something new keep that thought so then preimplantation genetic diagnosis I think has been around for a little while you you look at the embryo before it's implanted and you check it out and if it's got certain things you don't want then you don't put it in and if it hasn't got none of the things you don't want you do put it in roughly roughly speaking so if you think of crisper as writing because you're you're erasing things and replacing it with new code so you can write the human genome you can think about pre-implantation genetic diagnosis as reading the human genome why is that make sense again going back to our simple analogy you have your encyclopedia and all of a sudden you decide you know that again to press the point in volume s there is a code that tells you atgc that tells you that your child will have a heightened risk for breast cancer and now instead of using crisper or any other new fancy Technologies you say what if I could detect that in a fetus MH or in a before a fetus is implanted and I just won't implant that fetus I just read the genome the entirety of the genome and I say I just decided I'm going to not deci I'm going to I'm going to decide not to implant that genome that genome and implantation is kind of in the context of of uh artificial examination initro fertilization but you could imagine doing that potentially for a for a fetus that was conceived naturally as well that's right exactly so now with pre-implantation genetic diagnosis you can basically subtract information from your lineage you could say that of all the sets of encyclopedias that I could potentially carry forward into the Next Generation I'm going to choose only this one and I'm going to eliminate all the other ones and in doing so you would eliminate certain words which were in certain sets that does that make sense y it's kind of obvious so it's a subtractive technique crisper can certainly be used to subtract you can take information away you can rub it away but it's also more powerfully an additive technique you can add information back to the genome we've never had that ability really to do that properly before they've been attempts to do it so it's an added technique so that's crisper pre-implantation genetic diagnosis I'm loving the bit where we get S Muki to do now uh epigenetics in one and a half minutes okay epigenetics is a layer of information it's a very controversial topic okay epigenetics is a layer of information that is so the genome every cell in your body inherits the same genome give or take okay so in that sense we think of the genome for an individual kind of being fixed it's there was this kind of swapping around anything with the sperm and the Egg and then you get your genome and that's your genome and there you go that's right yeah however a red blood cell looks totally different from a neuron if they were to exchange their properties your body would go mad right you would not have any body so something must be telling the genome to use different genes in different contexts and allow certain genes to be activated in their neurons certain genes to be activated in your blood cells etc etc in the broadest sense epigenetics refers to the idea that human beings when they evolve when they when cells arise from human beings and they become acquire different identities that different parts of the human genomes are activated and inactivated differently now how does this happen it happens through a variety of processes one thing the biggest thing is particular proteins come and tell genes in your brain cells to turn on certain sets of genes and turn off other sets of genes so that's probably the biggest process that happens other processes that are more controversial that also happen is that the genome once it's activated certain genes and inactivated certain other genes in your brain cell versus your blood cells it also attaches chemical tags or physical tags to the genome and whether those impact or don't impact the way that genes are changed in your is is very controversial and controversial the extent that you've actually I mean you've got slammed for talking about this in some ways and but controversy is interesting again for those of us outside the domain is that something which people do argue about within it's a huge argument why so much passion there's a the consequence of that is that people argue about where how genes are regulated how are genes there's a paper today that actually even addresses this controversy it turns out that these Master regulatory proteins so-called transcription factors are not autonomous we're learning about them more and more every day yesterday there was a paper which showed that if you eliminate those if you just fiddle with those chemical marks you can turn genes on and off autonomously so there's a lot of passion about this because so far we have not been able to turn genes on and off in certain cells at will that's why it matters could you change a neuron into a uh into a blood cell it's not so easy to do even though they have exactly the same genome could you turn a d generating cell a cell that's dying into a cell that comes alive and lives forever not so easy to do they both have the same genome so what makes the difference between one and the other well it's that layer of information about the genome it's clear that these Master regulatory proteins have a big role in this the question is whether you know these chemical tags and physical tags have any role because in fact we can toggle those much more easily okay so look I want to do a quick gear change now and and you know in my head it's the fact of you're being a Pulitzer prizewinning author is very interesting to me and I'm someone also who's been interested in straddling the divide that we talk about the two cultures the Art and Science thing and those of you that will have heard of the two cultures will probably know that it comes down to a BL called CP snow uh who argued of these two cultures and I think the way in our society that's thought of is about scientists and artists being different hanging out in different clubs talking in different ways but CP snow it turns out wasn't too concerned with uh culture in the sense that we talked about now but he was involved in the immediate postc World War period in the nuclear age yes so he was very concerned about Atomic power uh and nuclear weapons yes and the concern that he had was that politicians particularly and the public not being scientifically literate would make it impossible for them to make decisions about the application in that age of nuclear technology which was in his view the biggest moral and ethical concern of his age and could result in the annihilation of our species you write in your book about a letter that Einstein produced to Roosevelt where he said we have all the pieces this was in before the bomb was made we have all the pieces necessary to create a bomb and and suggesting that ruselt ought to sit up and take notice and I wonder you know how exercised are you about public knowledge of these domains and and what are the things that you think we should be worried about now resulting from these recent advances in technology that will affect us our children you know and where decisions need to be made by as it governments is it the the UN don't know what give give us a couple of vignettes if you would the big issues right now let me begin that with a question that it's a thought experiment let let me begin that with a question that I'm going to throw out to the audience and I'm going to ask the audience to think about let's say you have um two daughters and let's say we could predict a with a 10% chance the daughters are healthy they're growing they're 11 and 6 years old and let's say you could predict with a 10% Fidelity in one daughter that she would develop the risk of being schizophrenic by the time she was 20 years old they're perfectly fine now would it change the way you think about your two daughters right let's say I increase the number to 50% the 50% chance that she would develop some other illness lethal but potential illness debilitating illness by the time she was 20 or 30 would would it change the way you think about your two daughters yes now here's the second question if it was 10% chance if it was that 10% chance would you want to know no yes no for those of you in podcast World we've had some yeses and some NOS from the audience if it was a 78% chance would you want to know yes right this is the world that we are going to enter our children this will be one of it may not be the most it will be one of the most important questions that a future generation will will be asking itself our generation is already asking itself you know why is it that at 75% risk they're perfectly healthy now why is it at 75% risk you want to know whereas at 10% risk you don't want to know what is it about I mean the answer is kind of obvious we you know the risk increases we want to be sure about the future but what makes that difference can let me ask you let me ask you a question what is the science or the domain of inquiry that would answer the question you just asked right so you're a cancer doctor you're a geneticist you're a writer but it doesn't feel to me as if any of those things I mean those things equip you to understand them technically and in your book and and in your life you talk about your family your family history and schiz Freer mental illness and so on but but who is it who should be looking at the question of when people want to know these things understanding it better helping to educate is that a question for sociologist is it a question for politicians is it a question for anthropologists it's not a genetic question well most importantly it's a question for everyone um because if you don't participate in that question you'll miss out on your voice in that question it's a question that we need to ask you know it's a question that we need to ask children with Down Syndrome it's a question question that we need to ask men and women who men who have and men and women who carry the braa WAN Gene it's a question we need to ask people who read literature it's a question we need to ask those who think about what suffering means who is us what normaly means what is where are we going to draw the lines who's going to put an arrow and say Huntington's disease suffering depth of of uh potential you know grief and suffering here's a line but um sexual orientation not to make silly comparisons not part of that debate outside that debate but help us because I mean you know the question of whether you do paracetamol or Ibuprofen when you've got a headache is you know it's a question but it's not one where we really feel we all ought to inform ourselves and educate and so I quite like to look up NHS choices so what's the fundamental difference do you think between these kinds of question so this is a question of paracetamol or ibuprofen is not a question of who we are this is a question that helps us Define who we are how we will Define ourselves who are we going to choose to be what is going to be allowable who's going to be who's going to allow the allowable um and if you think that this is far away oh you know this is abstraction who thinks about all of this let me remind this audience that in parts of India and China this experiment is already unfold in the experiment is already unfolded there are 800 women to a th000 men that's on the basis of genetic diagnosis and selection it's not someone else's problem this is about killing girl children that's right and and so it's not so and that is a that is a dysgenic project it is the largest dis genic project in human history what do dis genic mean dis genenic means using I mean it comes from the word Eugenics which is to so-called better the human population I I believe and I think most people would believe in this in in this country that this is dis genic in the sense that it uses genetic Technologies to produce populations that are not ideal that was that that that reflect a kind of a a perverse desire and if you ask as I did in this book if you ask the people um in some of you know who've studied these cultures who studied these areas if not across all of India is actually quite focused on a particular Northern edge of India they believe that that bringing a a girl child into the world represents for that child extraordinary suffering right they feel that she is that she would undergo extraordinary suffering and therefore that justifies to them to limit that extraordinary suffering now to this audience you would say that sounds patently perverse and yet these desires these fantasies have already circulated around the world more than once they' have circulated around the world in the in Europe in the UK where the term Eugenics was born and they will I guarantee you they will circulate around the world yet again as Eugenics as the desire to make children who do not suffer becomes personalized a personalized variation of eugenics using a combination of as I said before genetic and potentially epigenetic Technologies pre-implantation genetic diagnosis and maybe crisper in the future now one more thing before we come out and I mean I can you're kind of freaking everyone out a little bit here with the whole infan side thing and and and and the disease stuff so let me ask you to do uh a little bit on the positive side if I may and I'm not being poly Anish here so um you know you've talked about diseases that you might or might not want to know about and you've regarded uh being a woman as as as Untold suffering which must be avoided at all costs um what are the kinds of things which we might be looking to this technology to allow us to do that are better and and every most of of the new vaccines that you're getting are the result of genetic Technologies not all of them but many of the new vaccines that that prevent tremendously debilitating diseases around the world are the product of new genetic Technologies um the idea that you could eliminate um parasitic diseases by changing the animals that carry parasitic diseases mosquitoes for instance is a genetic technology most most of us who've undergone therapy for breast cancer or for leukemia or for lymphoma are beneficiaries of genetic technology most of us who've undergone screening for breast cancer because there is a breast cancer Gene in our family and thereby caught early cancers are the children as it were of genetic Technologies the idea that you can diagnose cystic fibrosis and potentially um prevent uh um having decide not to have a child even though you and your spouse May both carry the one of the genes for Cystic Fibrosis is the product of genetic Technologies and pre-implantation genetic diagnosis tast sax disease the decision not to Bear a child and it's a personal decision to have with Down Syndrome it's a personal decision if you had if you indulged in that decision if you made that decision you've already become part of this genetic technology you know it's very raise your hands I'm sorry this question raise your hands if you have thought about or actually performed an amnos synesis to look at whether your child may or may not have had Down syndrome or know someone this we've already we've already entered we have already entered for all of you and your families you have already entered the genetic age it's not far away from you you've already entered it it's inter in your book you you you quote a a description which I hadn't heard before which I think is rather lovely the chapter about through the Looking Glass so the Alice in Wonderland thing and I suppose you still sound to me as if you're talking like a doctor because the when I ask you for some positive stuff you talk about all these diseases we might not have anymore right ultimately putting doctors out of business but again before I come which is you know it's a grim Prospect clearly for you but the the um the the I I wonder whether there are things outside of disease and Medicine which we ought to be thinking about in terms of enhancement we jokingly referred to five hands before is this the time to be thinking about uh improving ourselves Beyond simply the avoidance of pain and disease in your view so that's an important question it's not a great question I've thought about the question I find it hard for me again I'm doing my best I've I've thought about it obviously a lot it's hard for me to imagine as a physician particular I me know that's my practice my day-to-day life I find it hard to imagine doing that without violating certain things that we know about human beings I mean in other words what I'm trying to say is that problems we have enough that to imagine enhancement Beyond problem seems to be a second order question it would be a kind of 2.0 question um and I find it hard to imagine that given what we know about genes given what we fundamentally know about genes that they don't usually act as widget makers it's an important distinction you know people used to think in the 1950s maybe that genes were widget makers you it was like a a blueprint in other words that you had a blueprint much like a blueprint you know you read a blueprint and it says you know 3 cm above the axle place a nut and a screw and tighten it and when you made your device 3 cm above the thing you would place your nut in a screw and you tighten it that's a blueprint genes generally speaking are more like recipes so in other words and you finally bake a cake you can't say well 3 cm above the raisin on the far left hand corner there was a specification for putting a second raisin right clear not a fan of the Great British Bake Off here but yeah right so genes interact so in other words the way a cake happens is that you put a whole bunch of things together they in a particular temperature in a particular context and you end up getting a process which is ultimately results in a cake genes mostly behave like that and because because of that reason you can't say pluck the raisin out of that and all of a sudden you'll have everything else left the same whereas you can do that with a widget right so my fear is that if as far as enhancement is concerned we know so little right now about the developmental Cascades of what results in a human being that ultimately will end up screwing up the recipe in more fundamental ways and just to finish that example we will say add one tenth of the butter to the cake as it were but you know that if you add one tenen to the butter you don't get a on tenen butter cake you get no cake you get a collapsed mess right and so that's the analogy helps us to realize that process oriented things that are developmental or neurodevelopmental or biodevelopmental Cascades it's generally harder to intervene on them without having many many unintended consequences we've seen that happen before one very very final question before we come to the floor and that is you know so we're quite good I think in this country human fertilization embryology authori is I think I understand to be well regarded globally as a as a way in which we think about these things as a society and legal framework and what's allowed and not allowed to do uh is is regulated in that way and I believe you have similar mechanisms in America what you can publish in a journal Nature and Science is regulated by certain ethical codes as well not wishing to pick on China but I mean you know in China for example are they just pushing on and doing stuff outside of that kind of frame work is there an international Dimension to what people are and aren't playing with right now and does that frighten you strong International Dimension and first of all the Chinese have their own important code it's not that they're working like Rogues outside the code it's just that their codes are not the same as ours they don't hold I mean I talk about in the book I if they don't hold the same sanctity to they don't have the same idea of sanctity they're different idea it's not that they don't think the sanctity at all it's said they didn't have a different idea of sanctity of the embryo and therefore certain things are intervenable and certain things are not intervenable the Chinese experiment that was done which tried to alter Human Genome in about 70 embryos was actually done relatively carefully these embryos were picked um and they were picked for the Capa for the for the fact that they wouldn't normally undergo full development because of certain abnormalities so it was actually carefully done that said now that the proof of principle has been done the next natural step would be let's try it in a real embryo with potentially a real problem you know so let's take an embryo potentially with a terrifying disease like um you know one of these diseases that causes hemophilia right and why don't we correct that Gene so it's not as if there is no code operational it's that they're different codes operational and they depend on the religious and scientific cultures of these individual places so we've got to have a common code otherwise this will will become an arms race people in the United States are already worried that if we if we give this away to places like China and Korea and India and other places where there are different moral codes that um are acceptable then we will lose the sarms race and it's too important uh to to give away um so I think we need an international dialogue if we need an international dialogue we need the vocabulary we need to understand why it's important if you need the vocabulary you need to read not don't read my book but read the several books about it so that you can then come to the stage and say I understand where we are I have an I I've put a stake down I know what a gene is I know how easy or complicated it is to alter them I know what it means to alter them I I know the history I know what has happened the fantasies of altering genes in the past I know those fantasies that are likely to be repeated therefore I conclude that these are the boundaries that I will set for us and for the world I was in the States during the race where George W Bush was running for president and he would came out against uh stem cell research and I've been campaigning for years that science should be part of culture it should be part of policy we discuss it I remember complaining to a friend of mine who was the political correspondent the ABC about the fact that George W Bush was against stem cile research he said dude you can't have it both ways right if you want it to be part of politics then they may be ruling on in a way that you don't agree with right you know so like the fact that it's part of politics means that it can be a political decision that you don't agree with and I you know you will give up control to the politicians of the that's right but the important thing is of course politicians are us they're not them the minute we think of themselves as them and US of course we make we lose the fundamental quality of what it means to have uh representation very good politicians are otherwise folks um uh questions comments now we'll do it with microphones please make yourselves visible in some way by waving something we'll take them in batches folks and also just it's not necessarily the case that we will answer in detail everything that's raised it's as much to hear from you as to as ra your conerns please if you have a consultation the doctor is not in so please do not bring your your your personal or family medical problems to the flo at this stage uh yes there's a wave over there let's let's try that sir hello um yep you're on is it working yep uh Dr mukarji this is perhaps tangentially related to the talk but as soon to be parents my wife and I know of um blood Cod stem cell storage companies private companies that store stem cells from the blood cord is this can you shed some light on this I mean we' have done our research in read but what do you think of collecting stem cells of babies from the blood cord okay I'm going to I'm going to get you to buffer these I'll try and make a note so blood cord stem cell buffering uh over there yes so good evening doctor um I just wanted to say in the start of your book you tell a very emotive tale about your cousin money and for me that felt like we were going beyond the imper IAL Realm of the Gene and going towards the metaphysics of what it can actually do to us as a society so do you believe with this you know fastpaced um scientific discoveries that are happening have we as you know moral thinkers and soci uh um you know philosophers and ethicists have we keeping up with the discoveries that are happening and if we don't will it have negative implications on the future thank you okay that's a nice question well should we try one more if anyone up that's on that side yeah go on let's get some ladies in next sir please yep um in your personal opinion should we wipe out the enophiles mosquito oh is that the what's that one that's the one that's doing what uh Mia and yeah yeah yeah also and wasps can we get rid of wasps as well that would be great I think that be yeah never know okay so you you can take all or any of those in any order you like um well let me talk about the mosquito first I I'll keep the stem question for later I'll I'll answer the metaphysics question a little bit so mosqu is an interesting question um actually I have a conversation with of all people Bill Gates which is coming out you can find it in YouTube maybe early next month he reviewed the gene um and the mosquitoes so I read a lot to prep for this conversation um and as you know I I I actually don't go conversation with Bill Gates exctly ex I don't go into great detail about GMOs in this book because it would really requires a new book a separate book and I think it's an important book to write someone else should write it but um um mosquitoes I'm told I as I understand it particularly the Niles is a very unique uh situation where when ecologists and other entomologists insect people have looked to ask the question is the mosquito useful um people have come up with the answer no not really we find any use for the mosquito it's not a keystone species it's not required for the survival of another species it is an unusual situation where this animal has really learned to parasitize or I should say feed on um mammals and um Carry forward um diseases that are very devastating to um humans and other animals so in in the unusual case and I think it's a very unusual case in the UN usual case of the anopheles mosquito or perhaps even the zika carrying um 0s egypti um would be the rare circumstance where you could make the case for genetically modifying um organisms where and and not have a a unintended impact on ecology so widespread that we would never be able to recover it you're familiar with the onion the satirical newspaper has a brilliant headline scientists announce breakthrough that partially solves problem created by previously announced breakthrough right and we know those part I to talk about them in the book a little bit you know no one thought that uh introducing you know what harm would there be to for a few rabbits to run around Australia um you know would we really care would be nice food for one people some people once in a while etc etc I can give you a thousand examples now this is this has been studied um I would say that there is a case to be made and you know the devastation is enormous malaria is enormous um as you know there's a plan um and and one experiment to do this for Adis egypti um in uh the Caribbean and subsequently in the United States so we will watch to see what happens just to be clear with the genetics of this one so as it were as a gen so we could do it with like really powerful um you know bug spray or swatters or something but is there a genetic solution to that you know does this come under the kind of things that give you PA cor worried about what that in fact the there's some debate a lot a lot of controversy about this in fact you know I had a conversation with people who are reading this until recently there was not a lot of evidence that bug sprays Etc spraying worked at all okay in fact most of those were negative so we if we've run out of those kinds of solutions the genetic solution would be to equip maybe the female or the male mosquito it doesn't matter depending on how you want to do it with some Gene that basically renders their offspring sterile um so that you would basically have a dead lineage every time that mosquito reproduce you'd release these mosquitoes they're marked as you know as you may know they're marked with a jellyfish Gene that makes them glow red um they're not visible normally but under the microscope you can figure out as the population is changing you could trap them and watch the population change uh you could give them you could equip these mosquitoes with a little extra drive so that they reproduce a little bit faster and so forth um um and this is a this is a people have very very thoughtful people have thought about exact doing exactly this to eradicate malaria whether it works or not is a question what its unintended consequences are is a question M there is a terrible disease Deni is I had Deni I was in bed for 3 months it's a terrible disease um so these are these are not to be taken lightly you want to do cold blood or you want to do metaphysics I'll do metaphysics just because I'll quick metaphysics and then we'll do cold the the metaphysical question so the question is roughly so so it's about you know you so the book it contains stories and you refer to them obliquely in your remarks so far about your own family and I think you know one of the nice things about the story this whole story is that it does relate to all of us as individuals you you begin through you're not there as a cancer doctor you're not there as a geneticist and I suppose in a sense the issues that you raise do have resonance for all of us in terms of how we think about ourselves how we think about our parents how we think about our childrens how we think about static children what you know is that what excites you about the domain what what do you think we need to be well I mean you know the the if you look and as as someone who's thought about this particularly with with with my with my previous work etc if you look it's almost always that there is that that metaphysics and and and technology in particular are in a kind of cycle with each other um one doesn't even exist without the other the questions that are rais that were raised once we began to have um instruments um that resemble human intelligence um are unique questions to that moment you could have thought about them beforehand but there would be abstractions but all of a sudden you know when we have that moment you suddenly begin to realize that this question has an important consequential metaphysical Dimension and so it is with James you know we people have thought about for a while kind of abstractly what it would mean to influence the human genome people have written about it great writers have written about it Al suley um you know George Orwell others have thought about this idea but now all of a sudden it becomes a very concrete reality and so therefore the metaphysical challenges this philosophical challenge is what do we do who do who do we Define as normal how who is there going to be a an appointed body of individuals that says you know that these forms of prenatal genetic diagnosis and uh or implantation are allowed those are not allowed these are these ET you know who's going to be in that is are you going to give um as I said before the voice to someone who has a potentially lethal genetic disease is that person going to be represented and is that going to be is that person going to be represented adequately um in that in that voice so these questions I think are becoming more urgent as we discover the frontiers of the technology I'm afraid we don't have answers to these questions right now the book tries to give an answer by the way um I can talk about that in a second um so you want to move on to the next patch sure okay cool um uh there's one up there I believe am I right I'm thinking that someone was you were waving just randomly all right I can't see yeah yeah I can so we got one here yeah good good I thought he was raving for a reason hi thank thank you for your your talk so far it's been very Illuminating um you spoke about Eugenics for for a little while but I wanted to ask you what your opinion is where you draw the line because some genes such as CLE salmia um which is an awful disease that um affects a lot of people in particularly Africa also confers a um protection against malaras and as we've been talking about that's um a big problem and so where do you draw the line with which genes you would go to um protect against and which you wouldn't and how would you then go about um informing or recommending a course of treatment to a patient yeah very the story of CLE cell disease and actually it's in the book is is an informative story because you could ask the question well why on Earth do we have CLE cell anemia and part of the answer which has come out from a from evolutionary scientists is that it turns out we think now that having particularly having one a or one gene of or carrying one variant of that CLE cell Gene may protect you from malaria um whereas having you know of course it also sets your children up for having the risk of the disease so similarly people have asked the question why is that why does a cystic fibrosis mutation even resist in human populations well again in that case there's a thought that having one one Al of that cystic fibrosis Gene when you have two of them of course you have the disease but having one protects against lethal infections of chera and other kinds of abdominal it's nice work in answering this question I do think the question has posed it in an interesting way so she said you decide and then she referred to you as a clinician or would you recommend as a course of treatment but I think this is tricky right so what you've done is you've answered with uh just so story Ro two Just So Stories in a row and depending on how convincing we find those Just So Stories about whether there a good mutation or bad mutation we might consider exercising it or not is this really a satisfactory procedure for deciding the things that we are or aren't going to do with this technology no I think the more satisfactory procedure for dealing with this technology is to ask the question do we need to make a a um germ line so I have have to explain two words that are relevant here there are two ways to alter genes one one way to alter genes is to alter them such that you change them in the sperm and eggs and therefore it becomes permanently imprinted in the human genome and every generation thereby to come in the future will carry that genetic change that's called germline Gene changes whatever it might be another way to change the human genome is to say okay I'm not going to do this in the galine I'm only going to affect the cells that are affected so in Sickle Cell it would just be the blood cells that are affected so in fact if you were to think about it for dis diseases like CLE cell the much much simpler solution technically technologically and perhaps even ethically is to say that we're going to make the change in the blood cells alone you have the luxury of doing that in that particular disease in CLE cell anemia and I'm going to concentrate my efforts I'm going to largely concentrate my efforts on changing blood cells so that the patient with CLE cell anemia now carries CLE cell anemia as it were in his or her body except in the cells that are most severely affected and that's in blood now you could say well that's a weasy solution well it's we in s that you're limiting the the consequences of the decision but you're not addressing the question of which things you would do and which things you wouldn't do in the first place that's right but it's important to recognize that these these weasy Solutions are probably the most practical Solutions so that's what we would do first that's what I think we should do first the second question should we eliminate the CLE cell Gene the mutant CLE cell Gene completely so from from the human genome I don't know the answer I don't know the the the in the book uh the what I do describe what we know historically is that there's a kind of triangle as it were um of forces that have allowed us to make these decisions and it's important to note the the Realms of that triangle one is that the disease should cause extraordinary suffering in the in in being inherited through the germ line now you could say well your definition of extraordinary suffering is not the same as mine and absolutely it's not the same as mine it's changing all the time but at least the standard is the suffering should be extraordinary that there should be something to tell us that what the consequence of having that gene causes a a a a a massive disruption of what we would consider a normal human life yep so that's one you don't mean being born female right that's right so number two that that we understand as clearly as we can is we can possibly can that actually changing that Gene will have a one toone relationship with what ultimately happens and not affect the whole right so that we don't have all these potentially unintended consequences of eliminating malaria and finding that something awful has happened as a consequence of that so we have and one way of saying this is also to say that these that the penetrants our understanding that the gene will actually exert its effects in a oneto one manner is very high number two and number three is that we know from the history now I'm talking more historically as opposed to about logically that we know that mandating any of these choices is a terrible idea particularly mandating it from the state when States mandate this they make terrible choices so it's generally better to leave these decisions to individuals they may choose or not choose to have um a child with a with a potentially devastating medical condition they may choose to have that child but mandating it at any point of time is is so so this is a generally safe triangle um with sickle cell disease we have other Solutions we have other potential so it doesn't really fit in that triangle as it work very good um yeah for some way there I'll take a batch more so if there any others we'll go yes sir or whoever it is where are you oh hello so do you think doctors should be The Gatekeepers to the human genome because there are commercial um Human Genome kits where you can kind of carry out a test on yourself and it gives you results which may not be accurate but given that it is your own information shouldn't you have access to it without someone else yeah should doctors be Gatekeepers like that over there Hi um hi Dr M um I was just wondering where you think the future of genetics is going in terms of microbiology because I know that so far it's it's seen as less powerful to actually go ahead and kill bacteria but more powerful to inactivate genes that cause virulence and I was just wondering if you think this is something that the bacteria would eventually evade or if there's a future for it so yeah so you're going to put the microbiologist out of business and and I'm delighted so another view from the gods yes all right so basically you've been talking about how crisper and using the genome can be used to eradicate disease but what do you think about producing like designer babies if a consumer wants to create their child to have say a FAS metabolism so they can't be as fat you know or change their eye color or hair color should that be allowed or should you kind of keep a lock on that because then it could be a slippery slope and so should we park microbiology we want to do that one quickly um let's come to microbiology later because these two these two are kind of related so should you guys be The Gatekeepers should you know who here's done who here's sent off for a genetic test out of Interest Who if you've sent off for 23 and me or one of them online other products do exist uh put your hands up so wow we got like less than 10% have you well you didn't need to because you're in a actually I decided not to okay cool all right so should we have access to it and should we be um modifying so the quick answer is that right now these Technologies especially the sequencing technology is easy that's the easy part reading act GCT TTC is very easy um it's how much it cost right now I mean if in your lab to if you want to send one off so if I want to do the entire human the active part of the human genome it's about $1,200 $1,200 yeah 23 and me has does some sub parts of it for even cheaper etc etc you give or take yeah um the first genome by the way cost about 3 billion the full genome that's even fostter than Moors law isn't it in terms of the reduction exactly right so okay so that's the the background the problem is not that the problem is not sequencing getting sequence is easy the analogy is you know if you you put your child and you put them in front of a book right and at age three that child can say that's a letter A that's a letter C that's a letter Q etc etc etc they would have not one bit of understanding of what those sequence of letters meant they wouldn't know therefore what the plot of the book was what the moral of the story is what the lesson is and what the historical context of interpreting that lesson is so we are sort of like the children who are reading a in in our case A and G and occasionally we can make out this combination of letters means that but that our vocabulary for that has about six or seven words and there's a big you know there's King there's Richard III sitting in front of us so you can read the word that you can read the word King you can read the word you know clown and now you're asked to say to yourself do you understand the significance of this play right that's where most of the technology is sitting right now it's it's at the toolkit stage so for me in particular and I have a very a great incentive to do this I wanted to know um is there a risk for me or for my children to have an increased risk of a of of mental illness um it just wasn't there we don't know what that will be and I chances are it will be when we come to it it'll be probabilistic it'll be that kind of situation 10% risk 12% risk it has to do something with the environment some component of the environment has to be sort of factored in as well so so you advise people not to use these I mean you know whatever you're not going to tell you what to do but you you think it should still come be coming through a medical gatekeeper I think it should be I think that it should be done preferably on a trial basis it should be done in a way that information is recorded and sent back so in a way it's useful it doesn't become a kind of free-for-all I think the information is helpful when you do have a notable family history of a disease that's when it becomes useful but in in my case with most chronic diseases whether you know that there's not one Gene and the genes haven't been identified for me right Now does not is not useful at this point of time and just say Ian shouldn't you know can't we have a blueeyed one darling go on let's just a little little go on just for a change so let me tell you where my where where I think the the trajectory or the vector of my fear is I think the first thing that will happen is height I think height because of the nature of the genetics I think the first thing that people will try to uh to do through prenatal genetic diagnosis I'm afraid will be to parse out the six or seven or eight genes we know that there about eight or nine of them which have strong influences on height and they will try to influence them and I suspect that they will try to influence them in cultures where there's a premium placed on taller individuals um so okay so that's a speculation but this gives this makes you worried or this is just you're going to invest in the company that cracks the hygin you no I think it makes me um if I were Napoleon I'd be very worried I wouldn't I would cease to exist yeah it makes me very worried uh it makes me very worried because it creates a culture of normalizing it creates a culture of of homogenizing it takes it it perverts um the idea of human potential it says that human potential lives in certain inherited features which we have spent a vast amount of our culture trying to resist we have spent Decades of our culture uh trying to precisely negate and resist that idea that your potential lives infinitely in some kind of aspect of your physical appearance within bounds I think it's a very it would be a very worrisome phenomenon and this is why you whether you're tall or short whether you are female or male whether you know what whatever however you wherever you come from need to be part of that conversation because if you're not then someone will say look we have this company what what wrong are we doing you know what's a little bit of height between friends um pleas you come you come across quite um in contemporary politics quite Nanny statey right I mean you you do think that this stuff should be regulated and controlled or moderated in some Central Way right I mean that's that's that's what if that's the definition of a nanny State then yes um you know if it's the definition of a nanny state that we should not be making viruses carrying human enogen yes that's the Nan state that I want absolutely but but that is a that is that is not the standard definition of a of a nan state in other words the if if the definition of a nanny state is to help us police and understand the outer limits of dangerous biological interventions that have the capacity to erode our culture that we have spent so much time investing and creating sure that's the 90 State I want very good uh anymore from anymore uh maybe one last question a little more time I don't know stem cell banking yes they want you to answer the stem cell banking question you know it's a it's a it's a it's a slightly difficult question to ask because we don't know what the potential of these stem cells is for the future so give us for those of us that don't know why would anyone want to consider banking the embryonic stem cells from the so they're not embryonic stem cells they're blood stem cells they blood stem cells that Bank uh potentially you could um make other kinds of stem cells out of them they have a relatively limited use right now they're used in transplantation If the child would get the rare on a rare occasion would get a leukemia it would get a blood stem cell cancer occasionally if they would have a cancer that would require severe chemotherapy if you feel as if you know you have you you are at that level of risk aversion for your child I would say do that banking but really realize that right now the technology really is limited to the use of these cells for the transplantation of children that have um life-threatening leukemic diseases which is a small number of cases very very rare disease in children very good we're in the middle there and then we'll come to the front yes ma'am so good evening my question is sort of medical half ethical um we have a friend who is in the middle of a Huntington's discussion yes now obviously that is binary you either do or don't what do you mean what is binary is that is are tested or not tested no if your test you either have it the gene or you don't yes okay so the problem is if they are tested they then have to report it from an insurance point of view okay so there is no motivation to actually ask the question now does at what point in terms of the genetic research do I not want to know because it is going to potentially affect my access to Medical Care later on in life that's a very question and I'm going to yeah we'll go we'll go straight on that one yeah go so so so right now as you know um in the United States if you get tested outside if you're not asked to be tested your decision to reveal that information is your is a private decision in fact even if you were to be tested for braa one or brca 1 Etc your decision not to reveal or reveal that information is a private decision and if we are to continue our current Insurance system and there's a big if there we can talk about that separately it seems to me that that decision should be left private otherwise we will divide the world into different Medical classes and the whole point of insurance will begin to collapse the whole point of insurance is to combine risk in a way that allows you to combine risk before information is available combine risk or pool risk such that if you were in a people who read roles uh would be familiar with this that the whole point of insurance occurs before the veil or or while the veil of ignorance still exists so if we all knew when we were going to die there would be no market for life that's right if we all knew exactly when we were going to die we would we would not have any mechanism of having life insurance because of course you would know when and the premiums would change based on that now the other question that you could be asking and you have asked implicitly in your question is does the new form of understanding genetics Force us to rethink Insurance should the person with Huntington disease be pulled with someone else who has another lethal disease or someone else who has hunus disease that's a decision that genetics will never solve for you it will only give you information about what the relative life expectancy or risk is for an individual um individual who has that illness or disease the questions of how we choose to ensure each other is a question that comes from social uh contract building and social contract building is a decision that is a political and humanistic decision we have decided to build social contracts around things like Insurance because we believe at a fundamental level that all human beings come with a uh a level playing Ground of risk and that should one acquire greater risk than the pool of monies that enter that that pool should be deployed to help you through that period of risk I'm loving the idea of life insurance as being the bit we know we're getting metaphysical when it comes down to life insurance sure so the question that I would pull pull out is that as we get deeper and deeper medical information and this is actually very relevant question the gene apoe4 for instance has a power has powerful risks associated with it for disease should we should the insurance companies be asked to then divide human beings into two classes of those that carry the Gene and don't carry the Gene and therefore have two different premiums attached to it that would overturn the way we've thought about insurance for the history of insurance can I ask you a really trivial question which just occurs to me what was the name of the gene that you just said apoe4 how are these names chosen what do they even mean is there some committee somewhere because like with hurricans they you know there's this they've got Hurrican George and Matthew about to hit Haiti who names these things and what do they even mean well biologists name them based on their function you know um um is there a committee there is no committee there is no committee right now you get to name you get to name them if you discover them have you named any uh have I named a Jee no I have renamed a I have renamed a Jee I found we have found uh theb lab has found novel functions to genes that already had names which would bely their names in fact they're the opposite of their names uh so now you've been called John but I just think Matthew is a much better name generally of course we try to stick to vention and try to um try to respect the first person who named the gene who may or may not have been right you know the genes are often named for absurd reasons um uh you know brca braa one or brca1 was named because of It's associated with breast cancer breast cancer brca knew that okay cool um other genes are named you know hunting to disease is named because it is related to that hunting disease Gene um you know the gene that causes that metabolize cholesterol has a funny name HMG Co a um funny and peculiar or funny haha no not funny haha are there any yeah the genetics jokes all right ma'am yes hi thanks for your talk so uh as you said in the US genetic screening is getting cheaper then you have all the director consumer Genting testing companies so you send your saliva they send you all these all the all the serious diseases cancer predisposition and so on so is this information overwhelming or empowering and also which are the implications when a private company technically owns your genetic information um going back to the insurance companies well in Canada there is no law uh to prevent genetic discrimination so what happens when a private company owns it yeah so um right say in history I mean just to to give the historical context this thing has been this question has been very alive from the beginning of the Human Genome Project has it when there was a battle around that give you pause so you know who who owns that information the answer is well um and what happens when private companies own the information the the answer of course is that you know companies like 23 and me have have been very uh with great alacrity have have told their consumers that the information will never be released that they are under no obligation whatsoever to release it to an insurance so in other words you you're an insurance company your blue cross B Shield you cannot call up 23 and me and say can you tell me whether you have happened to have a mutation in brca 1 or brca 2 you cannot do that 23m has no obligation and if if it were to be asked um it will fight a legal battle and it will win that legal battle as far as we can never mind hacking iCloud for nude photos let's hack the gene companies and work out with so that has actually been raised that question has been raised what if they get hacked yeah um and now start releasing information and that information becomes public it's an important concern I mean you're hacking Yahoo you can certainly hack any of the servers there have been now all sorts of new mechanisms most of these private the consumer companies have new mechanisms to to um anonymize and so that you can't just decode and attach it you know as you know these can be broken they do yeah yeah they they can be broken and have been broken by other companies in the past it's a new moral sphere um that we don't know how to how to deal with um look in principle do I have a problem with private companies owning genetic information no if it's secure if it's anonymized if it's carefully curated no the question is that this information right now is still in a read readability phase we're still learning how to read it um for the most part you know you get information about certain disease risks you get very good information about ancestry if you're interested in ancestry that's a great use if you're dying to know what your ancestry is that's a great use in terms of predicting future risk of disease um from your genome even the most advanced um genetic centers are struggling to do this for reasons we we told you already number one is usually most human gen diseases are not the product of one gene but many genes and number two there's a rich role of environment and chance Interac or intersecting with Gen that governs these kinds of um decisions ultimately so I think the the chance that from a privately owned company that you will suddenly get information that's valuable to your future health not to your ancestry Still Remains in its real infancy come back in 10 years and tell us more come back in 10 years and you know it depends on data right depends on data if you if a million genomes were collected and you could have the capacity to now look through it's it's it's a numbers problem you know more means more the more you collect the more you learn the more you collect the more you learn so there's a little bit of a feed forward quality to this so if a million genomes were to be pulled I think we would start getting more information real information about risk very good so look I'm delighted to say this say it's going to be signing books in the fo outside afterwards my name is Daniel Glazer please do look us up at science Gallery London and in the meantime join with me and thanking our speakers s m very much thank you thank a lot thank thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: JD-REUIa9tY (https://youtu.be/JD-REUIa9tY) ===

this UCSD TV program is presented by University of California television like what you learn visit our website or follow us on Facebook and Twitter to keep up with the latest programs [Music] good evening um I just occurred to me I don't know whether Dr Muki Minds that we're plan our plan is to overthrow the Emperor of all maladies which is his book but starting from that point um as those of you who know who have attended earlier programs in this series the Ethics Center is dedicated to creating Community dialogue about the ethical challenges that arise in the development of cuttingedge Science and Implement and implementation of new technologies to do so we convene programs in which the public can hear about exciting new developments and the scientists and members of the community can together identify those challenges that might impede scientific development and propose Solutions this year is the third in which the Ethics Center has developed a group of programs with a focus on a single book this evening is the fourth in this year's series inspired by s Arthur M's book emperor of all maladies those of you who have read his book know how easy it was to make it the focus for our program this year Mukerji addresses a topic of supreme interest to all of us it is undoubtedly U among the most comprehensive reviews of what we know about cancer and it is incredibly well written I now pleased to introduce Dr Dean Nelson founder and director of the journalism program program at Point lman azarine University he has written widely for numerous National Publications but is particularly welln for his interviews of book authors for the annual writer Symposium by the Sea please join me in welcoming drors Nelson and muker thank you thank [Music] you he introduced us as doctors but as my kids say I'm not a real doctor you you I think I'm also pretending yeah you're pretending Dr Muki let me start this way after reading your book emperor of all maladies I have a brand new appreciation and respect for cancer I I also have a sense of inevitability about it it feels like after reading your book it's here it's always going to be here um there's this line in there that in your book the cancer cell seeks immortality is that an accurate assessment that we're it's just here well so it depends on what as as Clinton would say it depends on what your meaning of here is here uh well it just feels like cockroaches right you know the the whole world could end and we're still going to have cancer and cockroaches and Coca-Cola uh to complete the alliteration yeah thank you very much coola but uh but no but but but but perhaps more uh more importantly the there is little doubt that it was always here cancer was always here in its various forms um in ancient history um and it there's to me very little doubt that it's part of our future um it is our it is part of our genetic future there is there is no doubt about that uh and it comes from a very simple idea I also think it's a very profound idea which is that the very genes that make us successful as multicellular organisms if you mutate those genes in in certain sequences certain ways you unleash u a a highly successful cell and one of the phenotypes of a highly successful Survivor cell is cancer so uh it is it is it is not a coincidence but the very genes that allow our embryos to grow our hands to grow our feet to grow if you mutate them in inappro contexts will ultimately release the disease that kills us well well let's take that a step further and and just talk about the survivability of a species to evolve and adapt to uh to its circumstances that's sort of the upside of evolution right but you're saying um the there this is the flip side this if if you're going to have mutations that allow adaptability this is the price we pay this is and I think that you know again these it's so this is this is hard to prove experimentally although people have tried to do this experimentally to ask the question if you suppress mutability um in primordial organisms do you get an organism that's more fit or less fit the answer is quite clear usually you get organisms that are less fit so mutability change um is is one of the things that is that is that is profound inheritance that we have From Evolution um but we have a we pay a price for that we pay a price for for the survivability of our cells we pay a pice price for aging we pay a price for uh our capacity to uh create organs we pay a price for our capacity to have stem cells um that same capacity that gives us the cap the ability to have stem cells which are cells that have incredible expansile potential uh and and behave in ways that can quickly adapt to uh very different circumstances by divid biing rapidly and populating uh tissue or Contracting and going to sleep when circumstances demand um if you now take that very same property and you mutate those very same genes you get a cell that can divide inappropriately when it uh when circumstances come and and then uh go into dorcy uh maybe when you give it uh toxic therapies which is of course the fundamental phenotype of cancer so I think that it is it is a it is a it is a scientific idea it is a biological idea it is a physiological idea and ultimately I would argue it's a philosophical idea that that the that the that the consequences of the success of cellular Revolution are are are um have have have left us with vulnerabilities um and and uh we did not get a free lunch and yet we hear all sorts of researchers and news reports saying the end of cancer is near we're in fact we've heard people say it's we're going to end cancer in our lifetime um are are those folks just crazy or what is that I think some of them are crazy uh um and I used to say this with uh more uh reservation I think I say it less with less reservation now um I go back to a to something that I that I saw which was on Richard Do's um uh office which I thought was wonderful which is to say death in old age is inevitable uh the job of science is to prevent death uh unanticipated deaths in unanticipated times uh and that is a I I find that that that is a perfectly reasonable goal said that one more time death in old age is inevitable yeah uh our goal is to prevent and the words are important um the original words were this is not Do's formulation but the original words were unanticipated deaths and unanticipated times uh which is to say that some people who are old and very healthy uh for them death can be unanticipated as well so you know the the job I think um I think the job is to create a kind of reconciliation and we're far from there yet so if you're saying to me that we will have a more profound more proximal reconciliation with cancer in the next few decades I think the answer is absolutely yes I think you know I I'm I'm I'm I'm as much as sober Optimist as anyone else um but on the other hand I think that if you're going to say to me we're going to turn around the the entire spectrum of complex cancers within the next five years I think that's a little crazy all right so you came to this country at age 19 correct from New Delhi you went to Stanford your road scholar you get a PhD at Oxford and you get a degree from Harvard Medical School then you write a book you're first it wins the pullit a prize you see where I'm going uh you're doing a movie with Ken Burns don't you don't you think this is a little unfair to the rest of us aren't you just a little bit ashamed of yourself what am I supposed to say all right all right we'll just skip over that part so I'm I'm struck I'm I'm also struck by the way you wrote this book The Emperor of all melodies it you wrote this in According to some accounts 10 and 20 minute bursts seriously so and it's that serious um I um in a creatively speaking I'm incredibly indisciplined I I I I I can tell you a couple of things that I figured out about my own life when I was when I was learning to write and when I was learning to do experiments I am such a lousy experimentalist that I told myself if I can get things to work they've got to be right you know if if they if they work in my hands then they've got to be they've got to work in real life because you know because because I I can barely you know distin discriminate between between one tube and another tube for Christ's sake so anyway so so by similar logic I I thought to myself if I can explain things in a way that passes must to my own sense of judgment in this book then I I I will trust that and I will allow myself to have the Liberty to play with narrative structure we talked a little bit about this before in a way that does service to the book uh to the to the to the bigger questions in the book um and so some of the consequences of that were uh I will respect my process of writing my process of writing is extremely linear I begin with the first word I'm I'm you know I've written more I've written I'm in the middle of another book I begin with the first word and essentially end with the last word that's not totally true obviously I delete I move I I move but what I don't do what I cannot do is I can't write in you know people would say oh you know stop that chapter there and just move on and write in the middle and you'll come back to it I can't do that that that was my process so so that was one piece of the process and the second piece of the process was I thought I thought that as a writer I would liberate myself from from from the standard stick of writing which is you know you have a desk you I couldn't produce a single word um sitting at a desk so instead I decided that I was going to write in bed um so I wrote this I wrote All of emperor in bed um essentially I kept piling books up uh further and further all around me um and I would started now I would start sort of in the evening and I would work very well actually also early in the morning so then later when I I uh when the when the when the book was done um I was feeling oh my God now I'm a real writer I should go and make do writerly things like I should buy myself a desk and uh I don't know I don't know what Writers Do they have like rooms to write in or something so I got all of these autant and I couldn't produce a single word I was sitting in my office not producing a single word and then I had the genius inspiration I said why don't I put a bed into my office I love it and I did so right in the middle I'm in I'm mean I'm I'm sitting there in my medical office and in the my medical office is a fold out cart yeah and I go inside I sit on my foldout cart and I write and now I'm writing again because you know that was one You' got a place for it I've got a place for it exactly so I have I have like all people I have you know I have idiosyncrasies I have eccentricities and my general philosophy is if if it works don't don't try to break it sure you know one of the other things about your book uh besides my respect for cancer was the fervor that doctors had in trying to uh treat patients but it was pretty brutal some of the things that that happened there were pretty brutal cancer Wards had to be equipped certain ways so that the patients wouldn't kill themselves right because of some of the uh the treatments so there's obviously an ethical component here of um of doctors experimenting on patients are we still doing that well let me take a step back um and and sort of ground uh ground one important feature of this convers I spoke a little bit about this before I want to want to carry this theme a little bit forward which is I'm interested um and I described this just just a few few minutes ago to you uh I'm interested in the structure of knowledge um and cancer is a lens probably I would argue that one of the most important lenses that allows us to investigate the structure of the acquisition of knowledge in the 20th and 21st century now what do I mean by that I mean by that and I gave this analogy before if you look at if you look at the 14th or 15th century or if you look look even earlier the plague um becomes not just a prism by which you can view and imagine Society it becomes probably the prism by which you can view and imagine Societies in other words you cannot describe the structure of parts of medieval Society without taking into account the devastation but psychological Devastation the the medical Devastation Etc that that was caused by the plague well the the the percentage of the human race that was just wiped out by that right um similarly I mean and and and we were just talking about that it is very difficult to have to encounter the history of the mid 1980s or early 1980s and late 1970s in the United States without taking into account without seeing with with a clarifying prism HIV and AIDS um you cannot you cannot do it it would be a misapprehension um I would argue that it's becoming progressively a misapprehension to try to understand the structure of knowledge structure of societies without looking at cancer cancer provides us with and and which is why I think you know I didn't initiate this interdisciplinary interde departmental conversation that happened here around cancer but I instantly understood why it could be that the the it was so obvious to me that this this this could be an interdisciplinary conversation because of the variety of issues that it raises so much so and and you know just just to just to reiterate this point which is to say that um Society is viewing cancer in a mirror and Mir and cancer is viewing Society in an identical parallel mirror they are two parallel mirrors that are reflecting each other and the images are receding out into infinity and you cannot you cannot get I think a hold of contemp you cannot get the complete hold of Contemporary American culture contemporary culture in the west without contending with the fact that cancer has put a pet on this um has changed the way we think about mortality has changed the way we think about struggles against mortality it's changed the way we think about what we can do what is achievable what's not achievable the nature of our hubris the nature of human arrogance the nature of our successes the nature of Ingenuity the uh it all falls out in that story is every story um so now we're back to though doctors experimenting goes back to the idea of doctors experiment with experiment with their patients so you can you can write a and and you know if you look at if you look at Sydney farber's first experiments with um with patients uh you can certainly write a a an enormous tone on on on the nature of that experimentation what was good and bad about it it it's it was very clear if you speak to the if you speak to the researchers from the 1950s and 1960s they will clearly tell you that the Ambiance that we have created of patient safety in 2014 they will unabashedly tell you is harming cancer research they will tell you that that that that we have become too conservative in cancer research and you say really I mean is that could that possibly be true that we've become to too too timid too diffident in cancer research that we we've lost some of the spirit but the but many of them I I can tell you I did the I made I did these interviews are convinced that that's the case so that leads to a question I mean this is a national qu this should lead to a conversation immediately that you know are we being too diffident you know is it true have we invented ourselves a network of of of of of important guides important stop gaps in safety that is now harming ourselves now who's going to have that conversation without you without you know all of us being involved this is a conversation which involves all of us I which where are you going what line are you going to draw now you have to realize doctors can't draw that line patients can patients I would say patients are the only people who can really and by saying patients can I really mean everyone can because all of us are patients so we can as patients as as people on whom illness is visited and people who struggle against illness people who defend ourselves in our struggle against illnesses people who defend the people who try to to define the Borderlands of what is normaly and illness so this is a job that doctors actually do quite poorly this is not a doctor's job well okay but what what is the patient job here okay so I've I've been treated for cancer should I be offering myself as a subject for for my doctor to say well let's try this well let's try that I mean do I have an obligation there no you have no obligation to move knowledge forward um so it depends on so I I would say yes you have an obligation to move knowledge forward but the way you have the obligation to move knowledge forward is to participate um vociferously vehemently in a conversation if this was your issue if you were interested in this issue is to participate vociferously vly pushing the boundaries of this conversation asking the question that we have sort of become inept at asking or many questions that we become inept at asking are we are we too divident today uh should we be advancing the the treatment of cancer in particular ways that we're ignoring right now how should we fund this effort who's going to pay the money for it um that sort of question that doctors can answer they're terrible at asking that question they you know this is this is not their job um so who should you should uh you know you should your you're a journalist you should you should uh you know you're you're you're you're a father who's lost their child to leukemia you should you know you're a woman with breast cancer um and you know guess what when when when that when when when the when the chips were laid down the the bravest Among Us did um when the chips were laid down the bravest Among Us uh were were you know were participating in act up trying to say look doctors can't figure out whether or not to move move AIDS drugs into trial we will act up um when the when when when the chips were down the bravest women with breast cancer were outside Genex saying let's expedite the trials um you know I feel that I feel there's I feel that we are becoming anemic uh our public conversation out cancer is becoming anemic it's becoming it's become too technical um it's become technical we're told about advancements about cancer you know about microscopic advancements that can change one thing or the other thing but there's a ground swell conversation which is to me that's missing which is where are we going why are we going there um who guides us who should we lean to as guides who operates this machine uh is there is there a central is is there a central goal here who funds that Central goal are we funding it enough uh who governs whether who governs that fine line between the autonomy of patients and the autonomy of and and and science so so so let's have it out let's have it out and unless we have it out this this this Welter will not wel don't we depend on the National Institute for health to do this or the FDA or insurance companies or Columbia University researchers or is that's we're kind of counting on those or entities aren't we the National Institute of Health is a is the National Institute of Health depends on you uh and and in in a in a perfectly symbiotic synergistic relationship you depend on the National Institute of Health um and then the minute you begin to forget this this this symbiosis the minute either of this conversation becomes one directional that you think that you that that that this that this this very close relationship gets gets uh broken down I think you I think I think the community around illness cancer cancer being one of them begins to suffer the conversation around illness begins to suffer all right let's let's shift over to um genetic profiling let's genetic profiling okay let's talk about that for a minute we know how to better treat an individual's cancer now right because it because we've come to the conclusion thanks to people like you that um this person's cancer is not the same as that person's cancer breast cancer is not breast cancer uh so we We've Come to an individualized kind of treatment is that correct that is correct and that's the direction that many cancers have been moving yes and so is everybody on board with this is the FDA on board with this are insurance companies on board with this because this looks fairly specific which strikes me as expensive it's not clear that I'm on board with it um why because of several reasons so you know it is very important for the world it's I think it's very important for researchers to be highly skeptical of the most fashionable ideas in research at any point of time this is our job this is this is you were asking me what the job of of a physician or or a scientist is the job of physician or a sci this is what we do quite well if we do do it well which is to be to be to be you know instead of saying to to dine own sense self be true it is to say to thine own self be false um which is to constantly be skeptical of the the prevailing fads in cancer research there is little doubt I think that the cancer genome is showing us one very clear signal which is to say that there is immense profound diversity in cancers so one leukemia differs from another leukemia in very critical ways what's also showing us are two things number one is that there are deep commonalities sometimes between leukemias maybe the pathways may be slightly different maybe the mutations are different but there are some commonalities and the one question is in fact are we appropriately in in that right moment between figuring out the common pieces and and the diverse pieces the second thing that it's showing us through the again through through the fundamentals of genomics is that two cancers that maybe look very different from each other under a microscope a gastrointestinal stromal tumor and a leukemia of some sort in fact resemble each other so at the same time that there is this this the field is bursting as it were with diversity there is an attempt to unify things I'll give you one very good example that we were just talking about it immunological therapies for cancer uh which are actually highly successful um if you said to me that oh you know every Cancer is so diverse that we will never be able to use immunological therapies against leukemias I I might say well maybe that's right but in fact they work uh the immune system for some cancers doesn't seem to care what particular mutations you have they actually recognize the cancers so this is a long winded way of saying is that that that one must constantly create and this is what what scientists can do if they're if they're really being thoughtful about it one must constantly create a theory and its opposition a fad and the anti-ad and evaluate them at the same time so that we don't get trapped because you know because science is a story it wants you to believe a story it wants you to convince you of a story that's what it it's very powerful it is one of the most powerful Stories We Tell ourselves but just like a reader of a story remains skeptical of the story itself a great reader of story remains skeptical of story of Storytelling a scientist remain skeptical of the story of science um I think that's what's that's what's very powerful about science so fads will come and go uh they will create advancement um but we have to remember that you know look for diversity when there's Unity look for Unity when there's diversity I think there's a kind of back and forth in this which is very important not to get stuck in a particular way of thinking so every time there's some new discovery or some new report or or whatever you rather than say isn't that great that's just awesome you're you're saying let's let's not get too excited about this no no no I'm super excited about new discoveries you know I I try to make discoveries in on myself I'm I'm a I'm a I'm a you know when I when I I'm extremely excited about discoveries and I think that I think that I you know I'm the opposite of of of someone who's pessimistic about the future um however I do think that discoveries happen in a space I think those in other words what I'm trying to say is that the it is precisely the culture of skepticism that allows great discoveries to happen that if you lose one you lose the other um great discoveries are exciting because they arise out of cultures that are skeptical of their greatness sure all right so I say that right yeah yeah I'm I'm sure somebody here tracked with that yeah did anyone understand no no we all we all got it um all right so let let's talk about what you tell patients I mean there are some really really profound things in your book about what what you're willing to say to a patient about how much hope to have or or here's here's kind of the straight uh the straight information and and yet in Sunday's New York Times there's an oped uh in there about how doctors lie to their patients I read it is right so so how much let let's say because of the genetic profiling that that you've done on a particular person you can see even some probabilities of what this person is likely to encounter down the line do you feel like you've got an obligation to to tell the patient all of that or or should you like the oped piece should you just lie to him um well the the the problem with lying and telling truth is that we think about we think that this is a process that happens in a single unit of time um but in fact good medicine is practiced longitudinally um it has to be so uh so if you speak to people who really understand this and you you know know better than people who practice really practice paliative care they will tell you that it's a longitudinal process that that and and I actually wrote I wrote a piece about this which was titled hope is negotiable right in fact you you were quoting drum grman when when when you say hope is a vital organ yes which just really struck me as profound yes so so uh so Jerry believes that hope is a vital Oran I agree with him uh I also believe it's negotiable and by negotiable I mean that that that hope on day one of chemotherapy for a patient is not the same as Hope on day 31 of chemotherapy for that same patient when he or she might be relapsing uh they are different things those two the organ has changed um and just like you wouldn't operate uh it's a dynamic organ um it's it's part of the way we intercept the world and you have to be with them uh through the process um and good doctors are they they have the capacity to negotiate they have the capacity to understand uh uh you know what what happens next um I had had an interesting conversation actually sort of relevant um I just finished I do uh some very intensive time in the war uh three times a year um and the there was a there was a medical resident who uh was presenting a case and they we get up every morning there's a cases are presented and the um the the resident was presenting a case in the following manner uh with all good intentions uh was saying you know would name the patient um Mrs Grace Jones uh give you an age say 61 years old say she has metastatic breast cancer and then would say DNR dni uh saying that she has said that she doesn't DNR means do not resuscitate and dni means do not intubate which means uh don't take Extreme Measures uh if some adverse event was to happen and then would go on to the next M Mr M Mr Morris Smith 64 prostate cancer DNR dni it was like a Vital sign it was like they were reciting a Vital sign for every patient so I stopped the the resident mid I said why are you telling me for every patient why are you telling me DNR dni and they say well you know that's because that's the official way that we communicate with each other telling you whether patients should be have heroic interventions or non-h heroic interventions and I said well wait a second the purpose of that code is to clarify a goal right so if the code code stands for a goal so unless you tell me what the goal is you can't tell me what the code is so I need to find out what the goal of this patient is is the goal of this woman to live because she wants to live to see her son graduate right now DNR DNA doesn't capture that so if you want to commun you know you I mean let's let's be pragmatic with a very busy time in the hospital um so you don't I need I don't need that information for every patient but if you're trying to communicate to me what the goal of the patient is then it behooves you to go and find out what is the goal of the patient patient is and and tell me is that goal mismatched is that goal real is it completely out of whack that's the information I need now so what was amazing about this is that it's as you know this was this this is during teaching rounds all of a sudden it's like as a bulbs went off in everyone's heads they were saying wait a second so that's what the real purpose of all of this is that that that that we encode information but the code is a mechanism to get to the real information the real information is goal so I mean and and you can you can you can you can extend this out into any part of medicine right sure well I'm thinking about what if the goal is I I don't want to be treated at such a level that I'm going to lose my eyesight or I'm going to I'm going to you know some of the other uh treatments where they carve out you know a whole section of a person's chest or something like that and somebody saying I don't that isn't my that isn't where I want to go so is that a goal that is very much a goal and you you know and and it depends and this is this is why this this is why it's important to be cognizant of the limits and the and the and the Precision of medicine which is to find out well what does that mean to you uh why what are your fear what are the fears here the fear is that you're going to lose your hair the fear is you're going to lose your eyesight the fear is you're going to lose your um function autonomy um so I think one of the goals in cancer medicine is to get to those fears um okay and it's very important to get to the fears because otherwise you're just going to practice in a vacuum okay so addressing those fears and and trying to be cognizant of Hope and knowing about goals does that Collide ever with just pure ethics it it it doesn't Collide it lives in the domain of Ethics it is part of the fundamental domain of Ethics which is to say you know the the reconciliation of of goals to reality is one of the fundamental goals of of medical ethics I mean you know how how do you reconcile these it's a fun it's one of the fundamentals of paliative care and oncologists have to learn and have learned how to practice paliative care it's one of the it's one of the it should be and it has been one of the fundamental requirements of all medical professional oncology aside if you if you want to do medicine you know you have to begin to First understand what is what does it mean to to practice paliative care what what does pation mean it means to re it is a process of reconciliation and how do you reconcile people have different ways to reconcile but it it is fundamentally process of reconciliation all right so so let's talk about another dark side that comes out of uh that comes out of your book where I can talk about lots of dark sides there are so many dark sides where where you show the Dark Side of cancer research's history a little fraud a little corruption little egomania a little arrogance research groups that won't talk to each other seemed like you were describing the Department of Homeland Security or or or the NSA you know where where you've got you've got this worship I think this was your phrase this worship of hierarchy and Orthodoxy and tradition why couldn't they get along why why speaking of goals why couldn't they just say here's our goal well let us also say that this is also a story of resilience Ingenuity uh uh uh performance outside the Call of Duty uh courage Beyond capacity of human imagination of imagination of of of researchers who went out of their way patients who went Advocates who went out of their way so so it's both yes and this is not a dark to me it's not a dark story but if you want to explore the dark sides to the story um absolutely but I I said before I'm interested in the structure of knowledge I'm interested in the nature by which knowledge is acquired and it is acquired through mechanisms that are as you would put it light and dark uh the the archology of human knowledge shows us the history of human knowledge shows us that you know knowledge is not acquired in in ways that are uh that are sort of uh uh uh Pleasant through and through U that that there that that built into the very mechanisms of Desire um are mechanisms that that create all this dark matter uh you know is it any different now have things improved on those kind of communication lines or are there the same kind of sniping that's going on I think I mean I think I think the the the the fundamental structures will remain the same they are Amplified their uh you know we invent institutions to in in in in good times we invent institutions to ameliorate against uh these flaws in bad times we invent institutions that amplify these flaws um and one of the jobs one of our jobs is to figure out is the in is an institution being invented to is is it is it servicing human flaws or is it is it actually ameliorating them and and and you will often find that there are institutions that do a disservice uh uh so so I think I think you know uh I think I think there there's the there there's this this quality I mean so so it's it's very important I think I mean just like in narrative structure it's very important to discriminate between content and form um so the content of what's happening in cancer medicine is changing all the time um the content of what is happening in in our interception with any new illness is changing all the time but I suspect its form is not changing and by that I mean the form is driven by by very ancient primordial human impulses and those impulses can be very benign and they they have a dark dark side to them I suspect that in 2743 we can have the same conversation because I think that in 2743 we will have a we will have a conversation which I'll say the content is totally changed but the form seems to resemble the form by which we arrived that this incredible piece of knowledge seemed to resemble the Mahabharata or some you know Indian epic that was written in you know some some very very prior Century at that point of time okay so so this brings me to get kind of the focus on on on the content are we are we spending enough giving enough attention to prevention or too much to treatment uh is and and where where are we on prevention so I think I think you know prevention I think it would be fair to say unless someone's going to throw a knife at me from the audience I think prevention research was was for a long time stuck in a very difficult place because of the nature of of of of the study which is to say that um you know in order to find I it's actually quite if you think about it it becomes very obvious in a second which is to say that in order to if if you have a very rare cancer that is caused by a very rare event those things stand out like sore thumbs like so give you one example misoa that's caused by asbest exposure the people who got really uh enormous amounts of asbest exposure were Shipyard workers for instance they had a high incidence of misela the Confluence of these two things is like an eclipse you know you can you don't get these things normally and it it becomes very clear epidemiologically so that's fine now so that's the most that's the clearest category then there's an intermediate category which is you have a um you have a rare cancer but it's caused by a common exposure um and there several examples of that um those are a little bit harder to find with were a little bit harder to find with epidemiological methods but they could still be found the most ironically uh the most difficult to find using classical epidemiological methods were if you have a common cancer that's incited by a common carcinogen so imagine that there's something that raises your risk of breast cancer by 2% um breast cancer is common that 2% difference is small but it's impact on human populations is enormous because the incidence of breast cancer is enormous so in fact the difference of 2% in breast cancer can be can have a huge impact on human lives 5% 10% those were the hardest to find because classical epidemiological methods and I can talk about them in the book are actually not geared to find those the change is that those methods have started to change and they've become enormously empowered by molecular biology by the by by a a fleet of new biological uh techniques which allow you to now begin to C capture that behavior that 10% 15% behavior and now the challenge is converting that into uh into prevention so sifting through signal and noise to use uh relatively uh conventional ways of thinking about it sifting through signal and noise and saying where is signal where is noise to try to figure out what's really you know what is is there are is there a link between certain exogenous estrogens and breast cancer right I'm saying this because remember remember how difficult it was to figure out that that there was a link between women taking exogenous estrogen for uh menopausal therapy and breast cancer so here is a captive population of women who have either been given or not given a drug which raises estrogenic levels which is a known uh co-actor in breast cancer and we're asking the question was there an increase or not increase and it took a 10e study to prove that using classical methods the hope is that you can get to much much more thoughtful fine-tuned mechanisms to address these kinds of questions with Biology this has been called opening the black box of epidemiology imagine you know carcinogens went in something happened cancer came out what happened in this black box could you open up this black box and start to look at the mechanisms and thereby try to be much more proactive about about prevention so I think and that's been that's a that's been a rich area I think in in in cancer research is something like the CVS drugstore chain saying they're not going to sell tobacco products anymore is that going to have any impact on prevention I think it'll have some impact on prevention I'm not sure it'll have a g gigantic impact on prevention um seemed like a token well I I don't want to presume motives here but I don't know what what can be done to by just the rest of us not the researchers but by the rest of us so there was there's a very interesting study which was done which which um which actually rose out of another very interesting study so this is um I'll tell you the first study because it's interesting and then I'll go on to the second and third study which was done by a group of uh scientists in which which was called Loosely has been colloquially called that the happiness bubble or the Happiness Project it's a very interesting study so what they asked they asked the following question which is that they went to um let's say a village um it was actually a small town and they mapped every social network in that town um so you know if your Uncle George is is mapped to you because he's your uncle you the guy you play golf with is mapped to you because through your golfing exchange etc etc they went to a town and they mapped every social network um whether you likeed someone or disliked someone doesn't matter you still get mapped to them U nonetheless so you create you create a web as it work and then they ask the question they dynamically ask the question how does this network behave in terms of Happiness over time so if you are happy um is your neighbor happy your social neighbor and if your neighbor is unhappy are you unhappy and so forth so you could get some correlational you could actually dynamically map this correlation I'll make it relevant in a second I'm trusting you here that that we're going somewhere yes right so very interesting thing was was found with this which is to say that this social interactome U to use a fancy word was actually quite predictive of happiness in other words the interaction network was highly predictive there were nodes of happy people um and there were nodes of unhappy people and these nodes moved together in space and time so over time these nodes flickered on flickered off as if they behaved almost organism this study was then repeated with obesity um and similarly there were nodes now again it's much becomes harder because now there's genetics that begins to enter we know this powerful role of genetics but in fact there are nodes which flicker on and off so there are nodes that cluster uh within a town of of certain behaviors and then it was repeated with smoking so the question that was asked was could you if you mapped smoking Behavior across a 10year period onto this social network could you make sense of this and it's very interesting study because what happens is is that when someone flickers off on this node predictively that entire nodes flickers off so and by by that I mean that if you stop smoking your neighbor who plays golf with you actually stops smoking with you uh and so does your Uncle George and if you continue to smoke you actually cluster yourself with other smokers so this network begins to move now what does this say this says something very important which is to say that smoking therefore is as much a disease that lives in a social interactome as it lives in a in addictive behaviors as it might live in genetic propensities as it might live in in in a in a in a cultural realm and that is to say that if you really wanted to get to the bottom of tobacco if you really want to affect Behavior change what you might want to do is you might want to change it at this interaction level could you could that be a Target so just like we imagine Targets in in the human genome could you imagine Targets in the human social interacton what would those targets be would you have to create counter networks that would that would seed them that would stop the stop particular kinds of behavior once again why am I talking about this I'm talking about this because yet again just that small Behavior studying that small Behavior not small Behavior studying that behavior deeply illustrates the structure of human beings our psychology our networks and our knowledge um so again you know you know this is what's amazing about illness is that it is it is a it is it is I would argue the most profound lens that we have to understand Wellness it is the most profound the the the the pathology is the most profound way we can understand physiology abnormaly is the most profound way we can understand normaly sure so what are the things that are keeping us now whether in our social structures or in our political structures or scientifically what are the things that are keeping us from um going to the next level of efficiency or Effectiveness regarding diagnosis treatment prevention any of that what's holding us back so so I don't think there's one answer I think there are many things that are holding us back um I I certainly think that that one kind of answer and I was talking about this a little bit earlier is that again I I sense this is a kind of a loose sense I I it's hard to say I sense we're sort of giving up um really I I think we're I I sense that I sense that we've lost the kind of energy that existed in the 1970s and 1980s um and I I I worry about it um I worry about the fact that we the on one hand we we're inundated with information there's information coming at us from everywhere but on the other hand it it seems to me that that the energy that drove the changes um that created uh Mary lasers out of us um I sense it weakening we we don't have any Champions we have fewer Champions we have we have less uh urgency um we have less we are more I would say we're more distracted uh we've lost sight of our important questions I'll tell you I'll tell you why I give you an example I was asked to speak at at MIT at at a at a function and um this is an example of distraction and and it was it was a very very very very thoughtful conference and it was the I think the it was the Provost who organized it or um uh and and he said you know what's wonderful thing about these new undergraduates that are coming to MIT is that they don't choose Majors they choose questions um which is a lovely thing to say which is to say that they go into a this true for I'm sure this is true for San Diego they come in here and they're choosing questions they want to say my question is whatever it might be and I'm going to use classrooms or education as tools to try to solve that question this is a wonderful thing but here's my only problem with it who's telling whom what questions to ask so is it an equivalent question to say I'm going to build a better social network versus saying I'm going to change the way we think about cancer um to me there are in the world of questions there's a hierarchy of questions and I I feel that we're getting distracted I think that there's too much noise and we've lost sight of and I hate I me there's no other way to put it we've lost sight of the essentials the essentials are there are deadly diseases um that contort human physiology uh we have be we began to get a glimpse of what it would mean what it would take to solve many of these deadly diseases um we made critical advances in trying to figure out their physiology and at the moment when it was all set up we began to lose steam um and that worries me I hope we don't I hope well that's that's partly a political ISS is you know funding coming from uh from a a group uh in politics who would say this is important to us but you're saying it's not that important to those decision makers I think it's not I think I think you would be surprised um it it becomes immediately important to those decision makers when their first loved one has cancer mhm all of a sudden it transforms from someone else's problem to their problem but you can't I mean statistically can't it's not someone else's problem it's your problem it has to be you know it it's going to be there's no there's no if you can't you know you can't have an argument about this but but that's that's that's that's the that's the that is the that that is the U that is that is the dissipating force that I that I'm I I feel concerned about that's the purpose of the film by the way is to remind us that it's not someone else's problem yeah what are there some practices that are going on right now in cancer treatment that you think we're going to look back in 10 or 50 years or something like that and say what were you guys thinking I think there'll be many I think that there are many practices like that and I think you want you want to take some guesses I'm going to offend so many people by the end of this conversation that you'll have no friends left no that's what's nice about it you know if you offend people it's a great equalizer if you offend everyone equally then you gain back all your friends from the beginning true well so I mean you know we we saw some of them so we've seen some of them so so for instance we we now know after decades and Decades of studying that um that we need new methods of screening for breast cancer we found that out last week um that you know that that the old methods of screening for breast cancer aren't very successful we knew that 10 years ago we knew that 20 years ago but 20 years later we figured out this is now really really really true that that those methods are ineffective and therefore we need to go and to find uh different methods of screen for breast cancer similar for prostate cancer and we I was just going to say that we we now know it's really really really true that if you screen indiscriminately for prostate cancer that is going to be a problem now I I I guarantee you that there's technology that exists today uh you would not need to reinvent new technologies to figure out for for scientist to figure out to discriminate between the aggressive variant of prostate cancer and the non-aggressive there's actually studies that are ongoing right now we need to bring those studies to the clinic we need to make tests out of them we need to make them available to human beings we need to make sure that people in UND people who are particularly underserved for instance in prostate cancer African-American men uh particularly underserved uh by medical treatment in prostate cancer get the appropriate tests get appropriately diagnosed when they're and get appropriately treated so that their lives can be can their can their lives can be extended so there is a there is a there is an enormous project that lies ahead U some of which techn technologically is becoming solvable some of which remains unsolvable uh there's you know there there needs to be I would say a a a vast marshalling of resources um to to solve this problem it doesn't exist where do where does it doesn't exist because you and I are beginning to give up that's the reason it doesn't exist it doesn't exist because we are losing a kind of energy in the face of one of the Monumental challenges of Our Generation I don't think it's overstatement to say cancer is one of the Monumental challenges of our time so so let me let me wrap this up this way I'm I'm really struck by your sense of we've kind of given up we and and so I'm now I'm thinking so where does that leave the developing world if if much of the developing world is counting on coming up with ways to treat things and uh and diagnose things and prevent things and if we're just kind of losing steam here where does that leave everybody else my point about talking about losing steam here is to energize ourselves it is not to say we're losing Steam and that's what it should be it is it is really a a what I'm trying to say is we have to my point is to try to be vastly more energetic when so is to say that if if we're losing steam our job is to get energy um we have to we have to bring in from ourselves from our internal resources the kind of resources that we've used to solve problems before um uh a Wellspring of of of pressure a Wellspring of optimism a Wellspring of of understanding the I mean you know there is there can be little doubt that the last 10 years last decade or so has has exploded knowledge about cancer cancer cell cancer genetics cancer genomics cancer biology we the the the the universities the academic centers are exploding with knowledge the the the the real question is how does that knowledge get transformed into human prevention human treatment um and and that requires I think A Renewed Energy we need to get that energy back I think we will find it I think we will find it and we will find it in in the United States um I think we will transmit that energy to other countries I think we will Transit that transmit energy to our children um and I think we in the end we will begin to solve problems I think in the end we will begin to solve this series of monumental problems I have no doubt about that um but I think it will require it'll require more energy than we have right now Dr mukar G thank you so much for being with us thank you [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: JQxJBNqtgt4 (https://youtu.be/JQxJBNqtgt4) ===

well first of all said thank you so much for coming to visit the Fred hutch today as the directors special seminar speaker it must be especially gratifying for you to have written Emperor of all maladies for which you're on the Pulitzer Prize and to have that occur in a context of these rapid and dramatic changes in the way that we think about cancer so I'm curious about how you think about the most exciting things that are happening in cancer how has that changed during the course of time from when you first started writing your book I had made a promise to myself that I would rewrite about two chapters of Emperor at the end 15 years after the book was published so it turns out that 15 years is too long so we're gonna do it now at the tenth year are you now what's amazing is that in these 10 years that has happened not just to one field within cancer but to multiple fields within cancer the most prominent of this among these being of course immunological therapy widely speaking including the use of new drugs that allow the immune system to recognize cancers which were previously unrecognizable the use of immune cell transplantation Carty cells to allow again immune cells to reject and and send cancers into into long-term remission and cure cancers but also I I must say cancer prevention a completely renewed interest in how we could track cancers earlier and finally a really a host of methods to detect cancer so it's obviously been a very exciting time he just makes my work harder because I have to now write something about it what's our obligation as physician scientists to communicate to the general look how do we get around this challenge of fake news how do we get around over-promising yeah well I think the first thing is that science is not fake news and I think one of the responsibilities we take up tacitly when we become physician scientists or scientists is to communicate what we understand in its full complexity when you report and communicate the an idea in its full complexity readers rise to the occasion in fact they're they're dying for this idea that they're among the most exciting things we're doing in our world today and so it is to communicate the excitement it is to remind people of the challenges and and be very cognizant about your own biases as you write the I mean is the excitement is their excitement bias in our field absolutely you know the thing that brings things that brings researchers to their laboratories at 9 9 o'clock at night after you know long day at work in the coming back the second time is excitement bias they wanted to look at their cells they want to figure out if the experiment worked or not but on the other hand I think as scientists as researchers that has to be tempered with the idea that not everything will work out many things will fail and to be able to communicate those as well the disappointments the caveats the problems and all of it can be done and people are still interested they will still remain interested because as I said we are grappling with some of the most interesting ideas of our times you're known for being and I know you personally as being incredibly creative and innovative and out-of-the-box thinker how do you think about how we encourage younger people coming into this field to think out of the box the most creative ideas in your life at least for me still happened to me and I know this when I was in my 20s and 30s those are the most important years and I think the real challenge is how to keep the spark alive for people in their twenties just give them adequate mentorship adequate support so that in their 20s when they hit that really glimmering idea that comes right out and becomes a new treatment for cancer you were to prevent cancer a new way to think about the human genome the new way to think about some other disease we had discussions earlier today about the excitement around how to integrate technology and data science into life sciences and it's an exciting opportunity for us here in Seattle because of the presence of the Microsoft and the Amazons and the googles of the world but how do you think about that is that is that overhyped is it that we realized the potential will we realize potential around big data as it relates to cancer care and treatment where was the signal from human genomics that would have pointed out the idea that immunotherapy would work in cancer and there was a signal it was a but it was a tiny signal there was a signal that in fact if you looked very deeply at people who responded or didn't respond to certain kinds of therapies that immune molecules would be involved in the tumor but it was a tiny signal and I would argue may have even been a neglected signal and it took a different kind of scientist to say wait a second that signals important I'm gonna invest my life's work to figuring out how these cells go into tumors infiltrate tumors kill tumors so this is a challenge to Big Data people as much as it's a challenge to bench experimentalists to say that this ecosystem will only work if they talk together yeah I think we really need that congruence of investigation so my last question is what are the two new chapters in your book going to be here what would you like for them to be so I think there's a whole chapter around prevention early detection which I think will be important and then there's going to be a chapter around new ways of treating and curing cancer we've covered some of them and finally I think a third chapter which I'll give myself three instead of two about the cultural impact of all of this the social human impact of all of this we move forward did we reckon sive cancer how much do we do we we conceive cancer in the last decade or so what impact will it have for the future of our populations our aging our conceptions of ourselves and what do we not do next when can we expect those it's so 2020 is gonna be the tenure mark for the original publication of Emperor okay good what forward to that thank you so much my pleasure I really enjoyed it

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Kc4-3E9g6ps (https://youtu.be/Kc4-3E9g6ps) ===

[Applause] well good afternoon and welcome I'm delighted to have you here we have a special treat today soon as the Mercy Mercy could be sued Arthur mercury is a researcher clinician and best-selling author his book cancer the Emperor of all maladies won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for nonfiction New York Times described him as one of the most important writers and thinkers of our time he grew up in India and a multi-generational household his father was an executive in Mitsubishi his mother a former teacher his grandmother was a powerful influence and uncle in the house was diagnosed with mental illness from very early age he trained as a singer in the indian classic tradition he was drawn to science and medicine as he got older influenced by his grandmother's fatal illness and the cancer death of his favorite English teacher the idea of writing a book came to him when he was training at the dana-farber a colleague urged him to have a life outside of the hospital good advice he wrote that the Emperor of all maladies over the course of five years at the same time he was starting a family and establishing a career The New Yorker called it an extraordinary achievement his second book is called the laws of Medicine field notes from an uncertain science the subject of imperfection uncertainty in the future of medicine his most recent book the gene an element history another bestseller Bill Gates put it on his list of recommended reading in 2016 his research parallels the subject of his books his lab at Columbia University Medical Center studies the biology of malignant and pre malignant diseases of the blood his research is published in Nature the New England Journal of Medicine and other peer-reviewed journals he was named among Time Magazine's 100 most interesting people in the world he lives in New York City with his wife a sculpture Susan Z they have two children I'm sorry Saro de city dr. Martha GE enjoys cooking continues to practice and perform Indian music last month he began his new role is a medical columnist for The New York Times Sunday magazine this video will show you more the knowledge of Medicine the power of words the determination to discover a breakthrough Siddhartha Mukherjee an oncologist with a unique combination of inquisitive research and dynamic writing ability advances investigation into understanding all in the quest for a cure born in New Delhi India Siddhartha Mukherjee showcased his academic skill early in life after achieving his school's highest award the sword of Honor he went on to become a Rhodes Scholar graduating from Stanford University the University of Oxford and from Harvard Medical School in the year 2000 after his residency in internal medicine at Massachusetts General he trained in oncology as a fellow at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute preparing the next generation of physicians dr. Mookerjee has been assistant professor of medicine at the Columbia University Medical Center since 2009 filled with curiosity throughout his career dr. Mookerjee gravitated toward the lab he investigated cellular genes that change the behaviors of cancer cells putting that research into words led to a breakthrough in dr. mukajee's career in order to find the future of medicine he decided to look into the past and wrote his Pulitzer prize-winning book the Emperor of all maladies a biography of cancer when I met Sid and read the book I knew this should be a public television documentary with SIDS books donnas bring it to the fore and said look we must talk about it his writing and research took a personal turn with his latest work the gene an intimate history Siddhartha Mukherjee explored his own family history to see what lies within our DNA for his advances in medicine and science the Government of India conferred him its fourth highest civilian award the Padma Shri in 2014 [Music] dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee takes a question and accepts the challenge in an attempt to find a solution he delves into the most intricate systems in the body with dedication to investigation his hope is to one day cure control & Conquer Cancer please join me in welcoming dr. Siddhartha and varsity [Applause] well needless to say we're delighted to have you here so thank you very much for joining us my pleasure let me let me start with like sort of a little bit of your background tell me why did you decide to become a doctor and when did you know so my decision to get up I sort of came in in Reverse in some ways I trained as a scientist first I was in England and I was training in immunology so I trained as an immunologist and one of the projects that I was given as a young graduate student was on a virus that I knew nothing about called epstein-barr virus now I know quite a lot more about the virus but it's so and it as it turned out I was looking at immune responses to viruses and became more more interested in sort of the the you know where did where did the immune response begin how does it begin and so I actually went backwards from science and I'm saying backwards because many people in medicine go into the sciences after having seen seen a human physiology and then enter the world of the basic sciences I went backwards so I became very interested in in that and of course I was talked to a little bit before I had a family history that was that pushed me towards thinking about medicine we've talked a little bit about it but and that was those two things really came together for me in in medicine oh why can't you well again the the in the challenge that the challenge of cancer was so great that it seemed as if it seemed as if it was them it was the one thing that beckoned more than anything else this was I tried I was cancer with my rejection choice no no no no no I I just said the fundamental problem of cancer not just the scientific and the physiological problem of cancer but also what went on the the larger the that we found ourselves in in the 1990s when I was training around cancer how to how to think about it what to do about it what is it how did how how's our conception of what cancer is how is that changing all of those questions were so seductive at that time and most important yet I didn't anticipated it the way that your relationship with patients as an oncologist I mean certainly you have that as you have some of that as a surgeon as well of course but but but but the idea that you would have this this kind of intense like a chemical bond was very was very attractive to me we wrote two major tones and both of you talked about them in terms of a biography yeah of a disease or a gene my biography well I think by ugh the word biography applies more than than a history or something some more anemic word because the idea of illness is so close to us I was particularly inspired by Susan Sontag writing for instance where the the the when you think about a history of an orphan illness when you think about the story of an illness or in the case of of the gene that the new book when you think about that story it comes closer it cuts closer to who we are and almost defines in the case of cancer defines it defines to me a kind of alternative self Sonntag talks and it's the quote that opens the book she talks about illness as the Nightside of life you inhabit the dayside of life during the day and the night side of life at night illness being the night side of life and I talked to myself you know this inhabitation day and night suggested to me a different alternate an alternate life it was and therefore the word biography in fact the name I think I thought for a long long time and I didn't the name didn't occur to me for the first book of subtitle especially didn't occur to me I feel much much later and then when I when I hit upon the idea the word biography made so much sense that it you know it came much later in the genesis of that of that book you know a lot of us know the history of Mendel yeah and Darwin etc but you know I was almost an interesting where the word gene and genome come from right so it's an interesting story you know Mendel didn't use the word you think Mendel had no idea really of the existence of what we would now call genes even though he saw it in this abstraction what's astonishing to me about looking at that history is how much even people who assume the words even people who think they have a kind of fluidity with the constant how much we don't know or didn't know about the origins and of course that tells us how much we didn't don't know I didn't know about the future the nettles genius at least to me was that he took he fused a particular kind of mathematics with biology people had not thought about biology in this mathematical way because the themes the fact that it would be interior harmonies across inheritance was really absent so when men will read his paper was an interesting story when men will read his paper in the 1860s he read it out not to some very August body of you know the the Royal Society of of science some way he read it out to a group of some agricultural basically a group of farmers interested in breeding and his topic his his what he had brought to what he brought to heredity was what you would call big data today he brought big Dave get ready he basically shells tens of thousands of peas and brought that idea in used a kind of mathematical statistical way of thinking and no one had bought into my biology and no one had done that simple thing before you know you did a lot of sort of basic research you went to visit where he was yes where he done his work yep and you had a little difficulty getting in there there's a small I wrote a night a small piece about about going to mangos monastery you know what's interesting about it is that again we live in an era in disease where our thinking is dominated by genes and genomics but know very few people I maybe can show hands maybe if you have gone to the place where all this was discovered so my question was why don't I just go there why don't I go to Mendel's monastery and I was going to spend a week there so I went to Mendel's monastery try to spend a week there and the woman the the woman who was at the front desk said that I happened to have arrived in the they were going through some renovation was closed and so I said well but you don't understand I've come from so far away there's no way I would have known can I not do that end is there any way and she said well you have to apply in triplicate you have to do you know the and I so I said well who do I apply to and she said to me so you know coming from India I knew this this this ruse was known to me so I said so I said to her I says formally like what I said I hereby apply to you and she was so stunned by the idea of me saying absolutely I took a little bow I said I hereby apply to you and she let me I said two could play at this game speaking about playing the game you know the sort of the modern era of the genomics really started in 2000 mm-hmm and I wonder your book can make a wonderful quote and I think it applies to some of the individuals and Ronald there you said that modesty is a virtue but you get further without it you want to describe that time and some of the people we know I refuse to take any names but but but but it's it's an it's an important idea I think in in human history the the draft sequence of the human genome and the things that have occurred since then in terms of our ability to influence change read and write genes is an extraordinarily ambitious and also extraordinary arrogant idea it lacks a certain cousin it has a hubris about it we are becoming in the world of words of john sulston a machine that is learning to read and write its own instructions what would what would what is what is life like for a machine that reads its own code and then begins to write its own manual these are questions that are extremely important they're circulating with great importance through the world of medicine what if we were able to diagnose diseases before the diseases occurred how much that would empower us but on the other hand what what would do to our selves our conceptions of ourselves there's one word that sends a kind of chill up your spine which I have a chapter called big with that word so the word provider a provider is a survivor of a disease you haven't yet had but imagine your life being on one hand medicine being able to imagine be able to run a trial before a disease occurred so that you could really understand the the the the you know intervene at the first step of the disease from the other hand do we want to enter into this kind of era of surveillance of anxiety of provider ship these are questions that are extraordinarily important to to who we are and what we're getting into in this new era of of advanced reading and writing of the human genome but the magnitude of this discovery and this development is 3 billion base pairs yep give people some idea of the magnitude of that number what so one way to describe it is is if it was written as if it was printed as a in standard font a single person your genome would be 72 sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica 72 full sets so every wall in this room would be covered with one person's genome imprinted in kind of an encyclopedia for money we actually stretch into a couple of other rooms as well so that would be the library of yourself you would be essentially you could go and pick out one volume of this 72 full sets of the Encyclopedia and it would be inscrutable to you it would read a CT g c CT g g g CT it said that's unreal I just made that up but but but but but the idea that from that code of codes that you can launch from a single cell this thing that becomes us of course chance lays it all of course the environment plays a role but the but the fundamental determination of who we are at their eyes the consequence of that is it's to me very very interesting and of course remember that the difference between you and a person who has a lethal disease of potential lethal disease like Huntington's disease could be you know one half of one page of that encyclopedia of that full encyclopedia the relevant difference between you the relevant difference between you and a woman who has a tenfold risk of developing breast cancer ovarian cancer in her lifetime may be one word in that seventy two sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica and and and the capacity to find those words that make the difference and then act on those on that word on those words is I think that what we're learning how to do and obviously has implications there wide you for human beings what brings up the topic of a huge amount of data and how we're gonna keep track of it right which is the north I mean can you imagine now that the cancers you're now sequencing both the individual and the killer yeah and so by the way just to let you know so I'm a mostly a leukemia biology looking at Annette Assist I work on blood cancers virtually all my patients that I see in clinic will undergo some sort of sequencing all of them and represent on a person yeah so how do you keep track of the data well so now I mean you know obviously computational power has helped it's not it's what's interesting is no longer how do we keep track of the data that has become slightly solvable it's the question of how we make sense of the data those are totally different things make sense is that is a really key finding or the key piece I was very taken by a recent article which has not even been peer-reviewed at these days you can as you know you can put things out before they are peer reviewed for public review for wider peer review so you talked about this for a second because there's many implications for disease and take me just two minutes to talk about but I think it's very very interesting and important a a computational by a geneticist interested in in in height ask the question can you predict height from the genome knowing nothing else just knowing the sequence of the Encyclopedia as it were for an individual now we know height is highly heritable we know this because of a thousand studies twelve parents tend to produce twelve children identical twins tend to be similarly or similar height if you remove nutritional constraints and illness so what this paper sets out to do is is is to ask the question can you use the genome for pretty tight now what's interesting about it is that until now we knew several genes that were involved in in height but if you added the sum total of their contribution to human height you'd only get very little it would only explain very little of human of the variation in human height based on the influence of genes so this team that took an interesting approach they said they went to a bio Bank the UK biobank and they took there were 500,000 maybe more individual genomes and individual Heights cross-listed against each other all anonymous and they said what if we unleash deep learning on these 500,000 variations in the human genome it's not full sequence with variations and and individual Heights and essentially by attaching connection weights to each of the variations they could get to within point five centimeters of actual height so in other words they've you could essentially input a series of variations in the human genome and you would output within point five centimeters of actual height the predicted height and when they went back to ask the question well how many genetic loci or how many variations were were involved that turns out that the number is not known yet but it's on the orders of thousands if not tens of thousands right so they're there this kind of experiment raises an incredibly important series of questions about disease and about how we think about ourselves one question is what we began to predict this across other features where does one stop what are the limits what are the computational limits that allow us how deep can we go can we predict other biometric features and where is it where do we begin to pretty dangerous biometric features where do we stop who tells us when to stop so so that's one and then from the standpoint of medicine you know imagine this there were tens of thousands of variants that were predicting the risk of cardiovascular disease where we put all this data would you carry it around with you so that you would know future predictions of disease again going back to this idea of pre virus shape so the the not just the data landscape but the ethical landscape that's opened up with these kinds of experiments combining deep learning with with our understanding of genetic and genomic diversity I think is going to be a series of questions that will really spend a lot of time in the next few years are you familiar with Craig Venters work face absolutely yeah won't you tell him about that so I mean I should say that that work I mean I read it because I was I'm interested in genetic variation from the standpoint of cancer that works been you know it's there's been reviews and reviews of reviews it's it's still in an in an in an arena which were needs to be vastly more polished but the hypothesis was that again could you use genetic variation to predict fundamental features of the human face and the answer is yes to some extent we probably refine it it seems to me that there are people who are critical of it right now because all the you know all the the it's no it's not absolute but do I think that within the next 10 years this this kind of work will change for instance criminology the answer is absolutely yes I do think you will be able to predict maybe not the real face of the individual that may sound a little far-fetched but maybe you'll be able to predict fundamental features for instance there right for instance something about there the general structure of their body something about the kind and texture and the color of their hair something about the texture or yes something about their eyes and and then subsequently many many features that open up ethical landscapes where we really really need to think about this I mean is it is it is it going to be kind of you know obviously this genetic profiling what profiling is inescapable here and remember we're in we're sitting in a hospital profiling is what we do in medicine whether you know two fundamentally the profile to understand risk is is one of the goals of medicine one of the goals of cancer is to understand risk where does our understanding of risks then stop when it enters a social arena where where risk big flock becomes profiling you know those those words are abutting words where do we where we draw those those strong lines these are I think important questions I try to answer them a little bit in the gene but I think they're important questions obviously we're talking about profiling have you been sequenced I have not been sequenced I have not been sequenced partly because you know just let's let you know how trivial it would be for me to be sequenced my our laboratory does sequencing on I would say daily basis excellent sequencing is something that I do daily sending out exome sequencing on a daily basis so I have not been sequenced for several reasons most importantly because of my personal history I don't want to know I don't want to know the risk alleles for mental illness in me I have computationally I have a 10 to 20 fold increased risk for bipolar disease and and schizophrenia I don't want to know but more importantly I don't want to know the risk profiles of my children I have two daughters and I if I knew I would fundamentally begin you know the question I ask myself is what if only one of them had even a marginal risk profile we know very living it we know that schizophrenia is gonna turn out to be much like many other complex traits in which they'll be not one but tens of thousands of what I call nudge effects not genes as opposed to sharp genes I never heard that it's a scientific expression well I could make it I could make it into a scientific mission it's an it would sound very very very complex and abstract and no one would understand it but but that's basically what I'm talking about they that one of the things we're finding out about human genetics is that many many traits not all of them many many traits are dominated by nudge effects as opposed to shove effects that's very important for disease but I don't want to know the nudge effects and my children because what if one of them tested it would fundamentally change the way I think about the two of them and this is a question of course all of you are asking yourselves right what if one of your two children so yourself your spouse your how about your children would you have them sequence no I will not I would not until I mean I would so here's my obviously there there there's a line between them I don't want to know I don't want to know about nudge effects that have no medical consequent want to know about it and this is actually sounds like a like the ostrich burying its head in the sand but in fact this is a very refined medical principle they're fine medical principles unless it's actionable information unless it's actionable particularly as it pertains to individuals that we care about is often information that we don't need to know now for a research study yes but I'm not you know my parent my children are not a research study for me so how about pharmacogenomics you know that can affect your kids yes they it could affect so again the is just going back to the same example the the number of instances in in pharmacogenomics as you know very well the number instances where you have a such powerful effect that it would radically change a decision making right now are few and far between they'll be more coming until that information becomes actionable I'm not interested when it becomes actual we're now when I find out that the that you know that within the within the code of my children's genome there's an actionable variation of that that will make a big difference to them medically then I'll be inclined to find out you know interesting me I used to you know when we used and equate you late people with work yep I wouldn't be there and some people you just wave a coumadin by the bedside and they be antiquated you and others times you'd be shoveling it in four days and no effect and clearly that's your knowledge right what's interesting about that yeah so that what's interesting mine and this will be the case across multiple drugs I mean I I'm extraordinarily familiar with this because this is very much the case with cancer in some in some people of course you know you give them standard cancer therapy and they have very little impact other people the tumor melts away and you have a powerful response how wonderful it would be to be able to predict from a patient's tumor and and their normal sample the capacity predict how they would react to medicines that would be a wonderful thing but until it became actionable I'm going to I'm going to resist when it becomes action I'm not going to is I'm a geneticist I mean you know a cancer geneticist this is what I live by but right now especially for mental illness which is the one thing that is that is of course the most relevant to my family I would like to resist so let's let's talk a little bit about CRISPR and you can probably some of the people in the audience may not know what CRISPR is but maybe you want to talk a little bit about what you see is the positives and eventually the negativism crisper so first let me take a step back and say really a crisper and the whole technology around Chris Burke has nine is that is really a suite of technologies and it's better to talk about the suite of technologies other than individual instances instances of the suite of technologies allow us to make it very simple allow us to make edits directed intentional changes in genomes we could we could do some of them with very cumbersome tools before these new technologies have refined the capacity to do this and just to go back to our example you know again remember the encyclopedia let's say I wanted you let's say I wanted to go to you know volume 72 page 314 and change ACTG erase that and change it to a CGG of course that could be highly relevant it could be the difference between one human being and their brother who happens to have cystic fibrosis those that tiny change could revert or change a disease or the course of disease so these technologies allow us to become much much more efficient at doing this whether but what the side effects are whether you mistakenly change something else in another page is a question although more and more rare realizing that they're quite specific actually so the question then becomes what do we do how do we use it what are the what are the limits of how we use it so there are really three arenas that I think about in terms of their use one of them I would call genetically modified organisms as broadly as you can imagine so modifying on one hand crops modifying mosquitoes potentially creating new weapons against pests so that's one arena and that of course has there's a huge debate swirling around that we know what are the limits how safe is their bio safety concerns there the second arena is in humans what we would call non germline or somatic gene therapy so you don't go into sperm and eggs you use the CRISPR or CAD like to change the biology of stem cells the genomes of stem cells like blood stem cells something I work on so last week we used CRISPR I'll give you one example last we can use crisp the CRISPR system in cord blood stem cells so these are stem cells from human cord blood if you put them into another recipient they would repopulate the entirety of their blood so these are highly active stem cells in blood and using CRISPR we essentially change the genomes of 90% of the cord blood cells that number was inconceivable five years ago to make a direct deliberate change in 90% of cord blood stem cells inconceivable five years ago and what's the relevance well you could take a patient who has sickle cell anemia and give them a bone marrow transplant from their own cells there and change the sickle cell gene you could take a patient with thalassemia and and so on and so forth you could take a patient with immunodeficiencies and insert or remove or change genes that that affect that and repopulate their blood with their own blood or cord blood where you'd made a deliberate change so really a new universe and then the third arena is obviously the most controversial so not genetically modified organisms not somatic gene therapy but germline gene therapy what if you introduced these kinds of changes into sperm and egg cells and and if you did that of course this would be heritable through multiple generations potentially to every generation that would be permanently changing the human genome because once you've introduced that change you can't take it back every time you reproduce that would be so those the way to think about is that really to split it up into these three arenas and talk about the three arenas really separately and that's each one of them has a debate going on but it really helps to clarify that they're really three applications or three arenas well and your concern yeah well so if you just go go one by one in the if if you make directed deliberate changes in other organisms the concerns are safety and biosphere the concern is humility and and and and understanding enough about the biosphere to have the humility to know what to do when you unleash powerful new genetic technologies on in the biosphere I am told I don't know this for sure I am told that the mosquito has no use aside from being a human test but we don't know we don't know maybe the mosquito occupies some niche in in in ecology that we are on we don't know about and you know the famous story of the butterfly effect story we don't know and we won't to know you know there's a famous science fiction story of a man who goes backwards in time and it's a kind of fantastical story this was written 20 years ago I read it as a child he goes backwards in time and II and the end the the set up is that you go back in time to hunt dinosaurs it's a sport but you're told that you can only hunt dinosaur a dinosaur which is destined to die within the next ten minutes because of course you can predict all of this so one of these in this crazy story this guy goes back in time but the dinosaur he gets flabbergasted he steps off the road and kills a butterfly in this story and wakes me flashes forward back into his own time the entire world has changed this was the this was the kind of conceit of the story everything that he knew about his change nothing remains the same because he stepped off and accidentally you know nip the wing of a butterfly or something but the idea here is is that so that's the GMO piece the somatic piece the biggest concerns are danger to the to the to the person to the recipient what if in trying to correct the sickle cell gene you made the cells cancerous you unleashed a mutation that was you didn't know about and in fact five years later ten years later some kid that you had treated for sickle cell anemia using his CRISPR for but bone marrow transplant all of a sudden came down with a lethal cancer the concerns for the germline gene therapy are the deepest what where do we draw the lines we you know what do we interferon who is you know these we are now playing with the human genome in permanence is it to be restricted to diseases of extraordinary suffering are we going to allow ourselves to change you know to remove genes that increase the risk of cancer what about human traits like height what about other traits that are we gonna start really playing with things that we were previously unavailable how do we regulate this something that government is going to step into and I know we stopped a couple of occasions in the past in science going to march forward regardless of what we do well so the government is so the government is a very surprising thing happened to me very surprising there was a national panel that shocking to me oh yeah so and everyone should know about this the national panel met and I thought they would say absolutely not so human germline or genetic manipulations and manipulations and embryos should we should draw a strong line but in fact the panel met it was it was composed very diverse it was comprised of lots of thoughtful people scientists people from the from the legal world patients patient advocates and they essentially said that in the United States it would be permissible to make germline changes under three circumstances the circumstances were and in fact what's interesting about it is that if you think about it they're very logical they're the same that I described in the book and in the gene independently I mean I I had written the book six months before the panel had met number one is that the the that it should involve extraordinary suffering these were the exact words that were used that there should be extraordinary amounts of suffering this is not to be taken in other words there's no this is not to be taken lightly we will we are allowed to intervene where there's extraordinary suffering I'll come back to that phrase in a second the second one is that we should really have some sort of certainty that when we're making a genetic change that we will indeed change the disease of extraordinary suffering that this is not to be done with things that have light or weak links with diseases some genes have small weak links some a very powerful links and the third one is that it should be justifiable that we should be able to justify it there should be no other simple reasonable choice there should be no coercion this should be free justifiable etc but of course if you think about it all those three words who defines what those words are and what is extraordinary what's extraordinary suffering to you i what is justifiable to you what is the exact strength of the link between the gene and and the trait so this is an arena that I was very surprised by I thought there would be a bright line difference and we put a put a put a moratorium but in fact if the more torrent the moratorium doesn't exist we are now moving forward so obviously there's tremendous opportunities with the human genome both in understanding and then potentially in therapy as we go forward there are also some dark sides and one of the things that I noticed that you dedicated your book to Carrie buck yep tell us about that this are the saga of Carrie buck so that decision was very made very early in the book to dedicate the book to Carrie but Carrie buck I found out actually didn't know Carrie buck was one of the first women to be sterilized by government mandate because she was thought to have a genetic variant of in facility I'm using words from the 19th from the 1920s and 1930s in fact when you look through the data and now we know there was probably nothing of the sort but she was stereotyped and the that plane made by the by the by the government was that she had she had a hereditary form of imbecility and she was confined to a state colony where so-called imbeciles were held and and the fear this was like this was in the throes of the great eugenics movement the fear was that imbeciles would read and propagate more imbeciles and Carrie buck the case of Carrie buck rose to the supreme court and Oliver Wendell Holmes famously wrote that three generations of imbeciles is enough and thereby forced her to be sterile as she had one child who died she would never have another child again I wanted that to be the bright line reminder of where this could go of our capacity to intervene on humans on human heredity where the dark history of that and where how quickly that our word had devolved into that moment I wanted to remind people in there for the dedication of the book telling about the evolution from there to learn the rest the world so so interestingly the the idea of eugenics the idea of of using technologies however crude the idea of using technologies to improve the human condition through controlling heredity was born in in very exalted circles the you know it was considered a very very good idea lots of people who had very benign intentions in the 1800s 1890s and 1900 signed on to this idea we we would call them today there would be you know among the great humanists scientists writers and the word was coined by golden and Frances Gorton who was Darwin's cousin and Dalton's idea was you know this is one way to improve human race the human condition make us better by selective breeding so this was born in in England then it morphs it comes into the United States where it moves from selected selective breeding intermarriage to selective sterilization and it's here that the idea of selective sterilization is given a kind of imprimatur of of social acceptance hence Carrie buck and hence tens of thousands of women who were sterilized as men who were sterilized because of epilepsy because of so-called imbecility because of a variety of of things that turn out to be treatable or in fact you know shouldn't even have been defined as non eugenic conditions and then in its final form it it goes to it sort of moves again and metastasizes to Nazi Germany where it moves from sterilization to extermination so rather than sterilize people exterminate them so that they don't have the capacity to produce more and all in the name of that same word eugenics so that progression I think is very important to remember as we move forward it's important to remember for me because my family has very much the the you know the remarks the fingerprints of the very things that were being exterminated had had you know in some fantastical universe those fingerprints that the fingerprints are the genetic fingerprints that inhabit and haunt my family in other places would have led them to to their death or to sterilization so it's important to remember these circumstances with a great deal I think of humility and thought thoughtfulness let me change this tone of us for just a second you've had a tremendous opportunity to read study meet interesting people along the way if you had an opportunity to sit down and interview one of these people what a lovely question who would you pick Darwin you know the the the the the the way Charles Darwin changed the way we think about the world is so fundamental that even to to see him in his in his English cottage I think would be a would be a kind of fantasy of a vision come true the the only person who competes for me is not his contemporary but certainly a person live not far away from him and was Dickens so Darwin Dickens you you choose the news stuck in the DS my second the DS exactly so I have to you have a incredibly tell their wife I do have a black was more talented in I am yes and she was a MacArthur Genius award winner a contemporary sculptures how do your ideas bounce across each other it's a very very you so we rarely I should say that if you're thinking that dinner conversations in the mukajee's II household are scintillating they're they're not because we're usually a kitchen cooking that's no it's because it's it's it's things like did you remember to pay the bill I did you what about the insurance no no far from it we I think have evolved a way of working together she reads everything I ever publish I try to see things that that Sarah does I I'm in the studio their studio is not far away and the children the kids come they've grown up in this way we have we could take the work and we could take she reads if she even reads my scientific papers we could wish it tough she's the toughest critic you see we you know the this the old old saying it better be it's better we could kick by your friends than by your enemies you could extend that better we could kick by your wife than your enemies but maybe maybe that doesn't hold it but but but but we we I think we we spend serious time serious alone time with each other's work and take it very very seriously and it's not a you know the the the things is you know I will she will write margins full of notes on on something I'm going to publish against ranging from scientific papers to something that might come out in The Times or in The New Yorker or come out as a book when I go to the studio I really really spend time thinking and thinking about the nature of the of the work and trying to find out the one place I think we meet is I like to ask it's whenever I see something I like to ask what question is this something trying to answer I'm I like this way of thinking it's helped me a lot if I see a book it could be a book could be a work of fiction when I see a scientific paper when I see a clinical study the first thing I ask is what question is this trying to answer I needed answering may but maybe partially and the same thing goes so when I see Sarah's work I always work and it's a very strange way of thinking about her work as I say well so okay there's this massive sculpture which could be the size of his room sometimes the works other sizes room and I say the first thing I'm saying to myself is what question is this piece trying to answer and the same thing when I when I write something what is it what question is it trying it's it's something that keeps me gives me clarity about whatever I've got one more question then we're going to throw it all from the audience so get your questions ready you recently wrote an article for The New Yorker yeah essentially subtitled the algorithm will see you know the algorithm was here in the excess and essentially a I versus MD you see that happening so that that article generated more back and forth you know controversy and they're not virtually anything everything because I wanted to lay out some of the important questions that I think are coming one of the important questions that are coming the the idea that we will use deep learning very broadly to change medicine is to me already is a moot point I think we are already there we will go there even even more absolutely and the the the the resistance to it particularly for certain kinds of knowledge I think is futile so the question really is what is it that well made the question it forces us to answer is what is it that doctors do that that deep learning systems cannot do what is it that we do that's amazing and special and there are many things that's not one thing one thing that strikes me is that we ask the question why deep learning tools machine big data interestingly is is still powerful act at Jen looking at patterns finding doing diagnostics but it often is it struggles with the why question why did this disease happen why is it that you know a particular trait is linked with a particular feature why does why is it that well why does pathophysiology occur so I think one of the things that big that that deep learning the game is is really forcing us to do is reconsider what we're especially good at hypothesis building is something we're very good at hypothesis testing is what we were good we're good at pattern recognition is actually okay in fact it is our failure of pattern recognition it is our failure it is the or the flaw in our capacity in our brain's capacity to recognize patterns that allows us to be strange creative thing thinkers we look for exceptions we look for things that you would otherwise been in one basket we say to yourself well wait a second somehow that doesn't make sense we're very good at that kind of stuff so I think that's where sort of our medical integrated future with as someone put it our robot overlords will be we will become accessories we will become collaborators but we will reserve for humans the things that humans do very well answering why providing compassion providing connection contact context those kinds of things so just a parentheses on that this article was stimulated by a discussion that you had or with one of our former speakers here Sebastian Thrun mm-hmm who came and talked to us and subsequently develops our opportunity to recognize the patterns from malignant melanoma that's right yeah and which is becoming a clinical entity and so that they now with 95% accuracy can diagnose a malignant melanoma from a benign lesion so that was impetus and so the moral of the story is keep coming to these so you meet these people yeah let's start over here dr. mukajee thank you so very much for your very stimulating and enlightening discussion today it's it's great to to hear a fellow like Sounion who attended college as well okay I had a question related to just the power of the of the genome and are entering the the sort of this new era and and I'm wondering what your most common kind of questions or misconceptions that you hear about genes and and genomics and perhaps the interface with the power that they have and and how machine learning and that approach can can take to understanding what genomics is well I'll give you it's not just a misconception I mean there are many many trivial misconceptions so I'll just neglect them for a second I'll give you something that's actually really I think a concern as for people who talk about precision medicine so let me talk about that for a second because the word the phrase precision medicine is something you know again I'm coming from the world of cancer where the idea that you can use genetic information so genetic precision medicine genetic information to predict to be able to treat with great but much much more refined with refinement and accuracy a patient because their individual mutations would predict response this idea was born in the world of cancer and now spreading across other disciplines as well but again remember that in the example that I that were the rise that struck me recently that in in the case of many human diseases the genetic architecture of the disease is not just one or two or three or four genes but tens of thousands of genes with small nudge effects when you try to build a biological applause biological model of these tens of thousands of nagy effects we begin to struggle so for instance again to give you the the the the example of human of height I'm making this up I'm speculating here what if one of these tiny nudges responsible for 0.25 centimeters or 0.025 centimeters of variation in height what if in fact that was a gene that set that that led to the set point of your appetite right so this is making this up speculatively the point here is that that to make a plausible biological much easy to make a biological model if you have simple connections between nodes and you have a simple connection you can say okay well this this gene affects the metabolism of your bone you know makes bones grow longer and therefore intervening on this will hopefully you know not touch anything else will spare everything else will make your bones grow longer and become you you know you'll get we get get they get they get the height portion solved but once you end one of the complications of real human complex human traits is that they're tens of thousands of genes with small and large effects and lots of something we call pleiotropy and making a plausible biological model so that we can intervene on that is becoming might become tough and if that becomes tough then making medicines that work on these will become tough so that is a challenge i think this is one of the concerns and challenges as we try to make new kind of medicine occur is that we might be bumping up against the genetic architecture of complex human diseases and it's an incredibly complicated idea to explain to ourselves let alone the lay public but we have to do it because we've started using words like precision medicine so i'm happy to talk more about it but this is a tough idea and could be extended all the way alzheimer's disease heart disease you know things like this thank you dr. mukherjee for your amazing presentation i want to thank dr. cosgrove for his great contribution to the field of I know dr. Cosmo you're going to retire soon and we know and I'm sure everybody agrees that you'll be missed so thank you for your service and thank you for everything you've done you have a second life as an interviewer on you know you could take away how you wrote it down I hope am i wat to do that by the way you did it very well thank my queriers my question for Siddharth is she does have two questions one is a macro question and yet there is a micro question okay I've listened to many amazing people and read about them including Satya Nadella yes Microsoft sundar Pichai of Google Ajay Banga of MasterCard and Indra Nui from coke and now you who have contributed amazing to the society what is it about this beautiful country called the United States of America that people come from India and many other parts of the world that allows these young bright people to flourish and contribute amazing to the society and it's called Raven it's really something we can argue about the fact is that they do and my micro question is if you don't you know if you allow me is if we study the genomics of these people since that's your special I know you are not a social scientist and you're not going to develop immigration policies but if we if we study the genomics of these people which is your interest what do you think we'll find because it might help us to bring even smarter people to the country and make this country prosperous for next 200 years thank you for listening so so the macro question I'll tackle the question of tackle you know so I think this is I'm gonna borrow the answer we were actually able to borrow the answer from sundar Pichai which assume that we recently asked this question as well maybe we were together so there was asked this question as well and soon they said you know it's a little bit of a denominator problem the denominator problem is that obviously you've chosen very kindly you've chosen lots of numerators people people come to the you United States because they won't do because they're driven by the by their dreams people like me they are driven by freedoms and perhaps some former freedoms that we used to enjoy people are driven by the idea that there's a fundamental or there was a formerly a fundamental belief in the emancipatory process of Science and Technology in this country and when we lose that belief people will stop coming I will stop coming people like me will stop coming so it's a very very fragile ecology that was invented in this country 200 odd years ago which then that ecology attracted like you know like sunlight a trap the transplants attracted people from the most adventurous people from the world over we saw our adventure here because we thought this was the most adventurous place to be because we couldn't imagine a universe when I when I first came to the - to the College in the United States at Stanford I went to a professor's office hours this was Paul Berg who had won the Nobel Prize his office hours outside his office office was a little signup sheet on a piece of paper and you could sign up whether you you know whether you were an undergraduate first first-year medical student a you know up you know whether you had won the Nobel Prize yourself you just put your name down on that sheet of paper and you could go and have a conversation with him about the future of genetics and whether recombinant DNA would become would change your particular field that's the kind of adventure the accessibility the openness and that's what made you know we are whether it would have been officially the numerators of that of that of that process so if you destroy the ecology the the sunlight will go away thank you again for being here I heard your conversation with Sam Harris on his podcast that was also a very interesting conversation and you talked about how cancer is basically a genetic disease and it's it's a problem of mutating genes and and that there are two ways basic ways that this can happen one is just a simple replication errors and the other are chemical that overtake or toxins and so I'm wondering what what percentage where do you sit on this controversy what percentage do you think of each and and for the ones that that we now think are just simple replication errors how many of those might actually be caused by chemical or toxins that we just don't know about yet so it's a it's a tough question to answer because there's not a lot of empirical data I'll give you some important I'll give you one piece of important information here and I'm going to go straight into the inter controversial mode the one piece of information here that's relevant is that and and and I'll challenge anyone to it so this is an interesting experiment the statement that I wanna make is that we have not discovered a single major chemical carcinogen preventable chemical carcinogen since the 1990s 1970s not one okay so you could say why why have we not and so much the words are important single major preventable chemical carcinogens we've discovered many chemical carcinogens since the 1990s their impact on broad human health is minor each one of them minor nothing of the comparative effect as for instance smoking right so and the question is why the answer could be number one is because of a conspiracy because we aren't being inclined to look in the right places so that could be one answer the second answer could be that it is death by a million cuts so in fact we will never find major ones the major one's already been found and that most of the impact is going to be in small if could be and number three is that they don't exist we and and that the rest of cancer whatever the rest might be and some people believe it's the major part some people it's a minor part the rest of cancer is going to be unfortunately the consequence of replication errors errors in copying DNA which are intrinsic to human cells so the point that I wanted to make the sound I want to make to everyone is that we we have to be honest with each other about answering this question we cannot be wrapped up we have to bring data to the question we can't get wrapped up in individual proclivities in our su question because the question has enormous consequences for cancer so I can only tell you right now that the evidence at least to me the evidence that random chance cellular replicative events cause cancer is quite high and that we have not discovered major chemical carcinogens so we're stuck in this moment where we're trying to find the ones that will solve the missing problem you know why are we getting by we have we have cancer we have cancer because we're aging as a population but what's the what's you know what are the carcinogens that are driving this but we have to be honest in answering this question and dividing it up thoughtfully that would be my you know that's my general answer thank you okay and then one more question and we're gonna wrap it up mental health particularly in this country has a huge stigma attached to it and I wonder as you looked at your own personal history how that your family history how that impacted you personally and then as we look at the genetics behind it I wonder if you think that we may eventually be able to take mental illness from being looked at as a personal fault to being considered the disease process that it is and then will we be able to force insurance companies actually pay for that they care people need yeah I think that's absolutely I mean that's very very important points and and part of the reason to write the gene is to is to do exactly that is to bring us up just up to a kind of understanding of mental health I have very little doubt that that powerful determinants of mental health sit in in individual genomes this is not you diminish the role of the environment absolutely not we know for instance even with diseases where there's a powerful genetic link such as schizophrenia identical twins don't have 100% concordance of developing the disease they may have high concordance tenfold 54 higher than the general population but but but they but it's still it's not still 100 percent so this is not to diminish the environment but this is also to remind ourselves that powerful genetic links exist it goes back to the same so as far as insurance is concerned this is a obviously or payment is concerned this is a reminder that that we we really need to understand and be empathetic to the way we are made up as human beings the the challenge lies in building that biologically plausible model because then once we have a biological plausible model that's where human creativity actually this is where this is what human beings are very good at the challenge is there because with schizophrenia this to give you one example very much like height very much like other complex human traits we have we know that there's a powerful genetic link and yet D if we add up the individual contributions of all the genes that have been known they're tiny so this is the missing heritability problem in mental health in schizophrenia in particular we know that they're powerful genetic links and yet D we have not been able to find those those genes that contribute to the to the to the heightened risk and we have not been able to build a model that explains a mental model a biological model explains why a child all of a sudden you know has this terrifying devastating breakdown in their in in their in their mental processes and if we can't build a model we cannot find targets that are rational to be able to treat and to be able to to be able to to tackle and therein lies the therein lies the peril and the promise of medicine applied to the mental health building real models building real and deep understanding of how known genetic risk translates into disease thank you thank you for your comment that comment thanks for being here in your discussion you mentioned Charles Darwin's cousin and from my reading I know he also made contributions to statistics and also to meteorology yep and people like da Vinci also made contributions to multiple fields and my sense is that today academia has become far more specialized and far more siloed and I'm curious if you think that's going to hinder our society's ability to answer some of the big questions that you and dr. cosgrove touched on during the discussion earlier yeah so so very broadly speaking I do obviously I think that that you know living in in variac you know siloed academic Enterprises can be a problem that's that I you know just to just remember that that some people are by definition highly defined how you define in their quests how you define in their goals very defining the ambitions they don't want to they don't define themselves interdisciplinary others are profoundly the Disciplinary they look for ways to connect fields their connectors Malcolm Gladwell has a nice description of these two phenotypes of humans I think I think there's a again I go back to the idea of an ecosystem I think a a thriving intellectual ecosystem has both has both kinds of actors you have the cardiothoracic surgeon who is astonishingly good at cardiothoracic surgery but is a terrible general surgeon but then you have to have the general surgeon who can can can move between surgical disciplines surgical fields with the kind of facility that that his or her colleagues might not have and finally you have the you know you have the the internist who sits and thinks about you know how AI is going to transform general surgery who may not even you know have surgical hands himself or herself so there's our surgical brain himself/herself so there is a there's a there is a real there's a way in which I think the the the diversity of of human endeavors and it's necessary to preserve the diversity of human endeavors that what if you lean too hard in one direction you often inevitably lose the lose the other was head I want to thank you very much for being here today you have enlightened us we have challenged us you have thrilled us with the potential for the future and you've also added a note of caution and I want to thank you very much for on behalf of those please join me in thanking and just a couple of reminders our next speaker is going to be Ginni Rometty who is the president CEO of IBM was going to be here on November 16th and following that later a date to be announced John Doerr who is the managing partner of kleiner perkins a venture capital firm in California will be here to discuss disruption so thank you very much for being here we look forward to seeing you in November

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: LHz9hXZiT3s (https://youtu.be/LHz9hXZiT3s) ===

[Music] thank you so without further Ado please join me in welcoming to the stage doctors Siddhartha Mukherjee and Adam Rutherford [Applause] [Music] thank you thank you everyone for coming for a very special evening to listen to um Siddhartha Mukherjee SIDS talking about his brand new book now um Nicole just mentioned some of the accolades that that Sid has had over the last few years but I I want to mention a few of them again they really are far too many to list but um the Emperor of all maladies the guardian's best first book uh it was a Pulitzer Prize winner time voted at one of the hundred most important books of all time then you read a book called the gene an intimate history uh New York Times bestseller uh then he took some time off and wrote a short introduction to a book called A Brief History of everyone who ever lived which is by me that wasn't a New York time bestseller but it did okay and this is the new one so basically this is a man who you've got two bearded Indian men on stage and I've spent quite a lot of my career trying to emulate him uh but with little success this is the new book the song of the cell and it really is a sort of pioneer song an elegy about the fundamental basic units of Life the cell something which I think is overlooked in in biology in the popular discourse about biology and we're going to talk about that you might have heard us uh chewing the fact on the start of the week on Monday when we were talking about this book now we've got a whole hour to do it we're going to chew the fat talk for a bit and then we're going to open it up to the audience we like audience participation as much as as possible um but let me just start with a few biographical questions because you people know your work here bestsellers in the UK as well um shortlisted for the Royal Society book prize and the welcome book prize but maybe they don't know you as well because you're you live in New York so why don't you give us a sort of two-minute potted biography of how you get from Bengal via Delhi to New York back to London well I was my family in bengalia was not born in Bengal I was born in Delhi and went to school there then went to Stanford of all places um in California as an undergraduate worked in paulberg's lab which is of course Very Much part of the the book on genetics paulberg first person to do genetic engineering in the world 1973 Nobel Prize in 1980 nah a little later so it's a good lab anyway the pointers yeah um then came I was a Rhodes scholar came to Oxford and was there for three years studied Immunology with Alan Townsend who's in this book um is a close friend Paul's also through Saint Paul's 90. I'm having dinner with him next week um and um so uh Paul loves to have bets and every every time I see him he he has a bet with me about something or the other and could be something completely random um and and the the loser takes the winner out to dinner and this has been going on for 10 years but anyway so paulberg then came to Allen Townsend Allentown wait I want to know what the bets are and who's winning well this time actually I won um that was actually interesting bet the BET was that the Nobel Prize for the discovery of crispr would be either awarded just to Jennifer doudna and Emmanuel charpentier who are actually close friends of mine versus it would be split three ways because there's an option of spinning in three ways um to someone else and Paul chose the three so he had a Winner's Advantage because it could be anyone and I said just Jennifer and the I I thought that the discovery was was so momentous it would be just Jennifer and Emmanuel um and I won but now you have to pay for dinner in Oxford no no he has to pay for this oh because you won yeah he has to pay for dinner right exactly so so anyway back to biography um I so then I went I was at um I was at Stanford and came to Oxford desert road scholar um lived in office for three years worked with Alan um then went to Harvard Medical School where I trained in medicine first um uh ran the emergency room for about six months which was a frightening experience uh I think more frightening for the patients than for me um and then um did my fellowship in cancer biology cancer medicine but I had already had my PhD from Oxford so I was an immunologist by training and so after all of that launched my own laboratory at Columbia where I teach and write and do various other things it's kind of revolting how over qualified you you are well I suppose it can be revolting but it didn't feel revolting when I was doing those things and so so in order to get to this book Let's just quickly go go through the other the other two books so as you all are a cancer specialist you're an oncologist you're a practicing doctor to this day when you're not writing best-selling books but um the first book The Emperor of all maladies which was a huge Mega International bestseller that is the subtitle is a biography of of cancer so what was it that's that that you wanted to explore in your field as an expert you know just some extent the emperor was a um was written because it wasn't there when I mean obviously we're living in an age of cancer I mean the word appears every day in the in in every newspaper and um when you look around when I looked around this was um in 2000 when I started writing the book was 2006. um when I looked around there was no history of it um where had it come from where were we going and it was inspired by a patient's question she said um and she was asking a question about her own Journey she said um how did I get here and where am I going um but if you take that question very broadly and think about how did we get here and where are we going it becomes The improval Melodies it becomes that book and so um that was the inspiration for for that book it was a it was that that book was trying to fill a void um and to some extent the gene also was trying to fill a void because it seemed to me that there had been of course very very good books on on on genetics before but it had but that sort of lapsed um in the post um what I would call the post-genomic era in the era of sequencing whole genomes and and crispr and all the vast landscape of both therapeutic and ethical issues that were that had been brought up by that um and there there was also I think um which you know very well from your most recent book um there was also a um um a lack um we were just talking about this a lack of um understanding of the of the very complex and potentially um discomforting birth of genetics human genetics in particular which is through Eugenics and golden and others that you mentioned in your in your new book um and it was as if that part of the history had been erased and um genetics all of a sudden sprang like you know out of Zeus's head in in you know 1920 or something like that when in fact its Origins are very much in the pre-war era um with um a very uh uncomfortable history of of of the idea of human selection and human genetics so genetics filled that void and we'll just talk about the void that this book fills as well yeah well I think one of the things that is a common theme in all three books is that you write from the perspective of a scientist and a science historian but also as a clinician and that I think is is kind of unique to your work that that so many of the themes that are well obviously in a book about cancer it's about patients but in the gene it also relates to disease and treating patients and in this book and the song of the cell as well a lot of it's the history which I find abs really fascinating um and and teach them have studied myself but then there's this other dimension to it which is how the history and the basic science and the genetics how that actually relates to patience to disease yes and I think the the important thing in these books well first of all I should say that the books are written if one were to reread the books and eventually I hope they'll be compiled into a quartet if there's a quartet there's a book after this um I'm only saying that because um when the emperor won the guardian book prize um there was a snarky review that said um this should have been called The Guardian only book prize because he's done with anything he has to ever write um but that was not the case obviously but um um but all of that said um I think I make in all three books um in fact the gene probably should come first um because it is of course this single smallest unit of information uh the code um the cell probably comes next and Emperor comes last because it's about when cells go wrong and Physiology gets affected um so that's one important piece but I think probably the most important idea that runs through these books and I've introduce it early in the conversation is the distinction between disease and desire um and that's very important for me as a thinker but also important for us as a society and also important for me as a clinician and as a doctor because we have drawn historically very strong boundaries between disease and desire and out by it's quite obviously I'll explain a little bit anyway but disease of course is is is fundamentally linked to the idea of suffering and and we have understood disease for Generations since the beginning of of human history um desire is is linked to some idea of enhancement or augmentation something that we cannot do that we wanted to do and I I would suggest that really for centuries these lines were relatively easily drawn the line between disease and desire um but now as we invade uh biology uh with more and more Precision but but more and more audacity I think these lines are being rapidly blurred um and that's why I think these books need to enter the conversation because um because those lines are extraordinarily important to draw and if you don't draw them I think you know many things that we understand about the world will change and perhaps not for the better okay well let's let's talk about the song Let's get really stuck into it because that's why you're here and that's that's the book that we're talking about um we will get to during the course of this conversation we want to talk about the therapies and yes and the desires and all of those things that you've just mentioned but let's let's talk about the history because the history is fascinating but even before we get to that I think we should establish some ground rules about what we mean when we're talking about cells because I know we have spent a lot of Our Lives staring at these pretty often pretty unremarkable sort of translucent Globs down microscopes and maybe you did when you I don't know sliced up an onion at GCSE biology or did some hematology or something like that and I don't know they look they they can be pretty unremarkable and yet they are the basic unit of life full of diversity active cities buzzing with action they are where life exists and I think you made a very important Point both in your program and just now which is that that is absolutely true but bizarrely enough they've been sort of neglected um I wouldn't say what's not neglected in literature in the scientific literature on a cell biologist but but if you if you um I I was walking past I told you this on the program a Brazilian Botox Clinic called life I wasn't getting Botox but um but really and and it had a picture of DNA on it um so every time you go through anything that's called life you know a magazine cover on life etc etc it'll have the iconic double helix on it um but of course the the G which is the you know DNA contains the information for genetics for genes but what's interesting and what you realize quite obviously when you think about it DNA is a molecule it doesn't it's lifeless it is not life it is only brought to life by a cell a cell interprets DNA in the same way that a musician interprets a score a score is not music it's the musician playing the music that is music hence the song of the cell but um but but um so it's a cell that really where is where life begins in some ways if you want to think about life and we I thought you put it very nicely in the program they're really three foundational pieces of all biology and by foundational pieces they are so Universal that they that they span the entire biological universe as we know it um the number one being the universality of genetic of the genetic code and and genetics um there are variations on the theme but essentially the universality of it the second is cell theory the fact that all organisms regardless of whether you're an elephant or a bacterium are you made of a cell and the third of course is evolution now Evolution has a thousand books written on it genetics says two thousand books are not including mine what's interesting is that there wasn't or there really isn't a kind of similar book about the importance of the third pillar of of our life so unremarkable remarkable as it is the cell is remarkable it is the it is the smallest living unit of life and that thing you saw that blob you saw under a microscope or a much more complex cell like the one that lives in your brain does things uh it's the actor it's the doer it's the maker um sometimes the teacher that's responsible for for everything that that we do or be or our our whole being um and so therefore I mean you're exactly right I mean what looks sometimes unremarkable is really the center of all being right there is

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: LdgQYTpAcT0 (https://youtu.be/LdgQYTpAcT0) ===

[Music] over the last four or five years we've acquired technologies to change and interrogate not just change but to interrogate the human genome with a kind of facility that we didn't have before in other words that two things that are coming out of this one thing is that we were struggling as you very well know we were struggling in medicine in biology in the sciences to explain the nature of human variation why do you look different from from me why is your biological feature medical fate different from mine why does a young woman have breast cancer another young woman does not why does my child suffer from one illness another child does not we knew that there were genetic components they're not the only components we knew they were powerful genetic components to this but we didn't know what those components were we now are beginning to know those components and often they might have not one gene but may have a hundred may have 200 and our computational power our knowledge our power of knowledge was at its at its very limit but we seem to have now crossed into a new arena of limits and there seems to be no limit as long as the features are heritable we seem to have be able to capture that information using genetics and computational technologies including AI that's reading writing takes a deeper step into the into the what I call the exhilarating abyss of human biology writing means that we also have the capacity just begin to change the information you can now again based on technologies discovered about five to six years ago which we are using a lot in our own laboratories we're doing is actually daily we're changing human genetic information we can change now on really on demand I should say we can change on demand I think it's not an exaggeration to say virtually any gene of choice in the human and we can probably change it in a human embryo probably more than one any gene of choice we can certainly delete jeans you can inactivate a gene like Braca one which will in a human embryo or or or a sperm producing cell or an egg producing cell you can almost certainly delete a gene that might predispose you to breast cancer by the end of next year we will begin to know how easy or difficult it is to replace them deleting is not a problem replacing it completely with the new information is is a threshold we're about to cross that threshold there's a paper published about a month ago which uses AI alcapurrias in a second but uses AI and genetics to predict human height this was unpredictable before we had we knew that height was highly heritable but there was no algorithm that would allow us to predict the height of a child or a person based on genetic information alone but as far as AI is concerned this will give you very quickly what what the field refers to what it means so in AI we are using we're learning to use algorithms in computers that simulate or are similar to the nature of human learning imagine building a computational architecture which captures knowledge in this manner our old computational architectures were based on rulebook kind of learning we would tell computers here a set of rules and computers were very good at it they could organize sets of rules and if you gave them rules if you gave them a kind of if then else statement if it has ears it has hair and this happens it must be a dog if it's this color it must be that bla bla bla bla bla bla but in in with deep learning and with neural networks you don't supply the rules you supply experiences you supply a mechanism for the machine to acquire its own knowledge structure and overtime just like a child learns we think the machine learns in the same way now the interesting thing about it is that just like a child learns and then begins to use that information in powerful ways you can present it with complex problems the child and the child can now start solving the complex problems just based on its heuristic or experiential learning the machine can do that too [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Nh9EFDv8_qA (https://youtu.be/Nh9EFDv8_qA) ===

[Music] welcome to this special edition of the minor consult last month I had the privilege to sit down with Pulitzer prize-winning author renowned researcher and world-class physician Siddhartha Mukherjee in front of a live audience at Stanford our conversation included stories from his time as a Stanford undergrad insights into his newest book song of the cell and a peek behind the curtain that revealed how he remains productive in everything he does so without further Ado let's get into our episode Sid welcome it's it's delightful to see you to be with you and maybe you could start out by talking about the song of the cell and what motivated you to uh to write the book and and also about the progression of the first book improval maladies on uh on cancer and then genes in the genomic Revolution and now the cell so can you talk about that progression about your most recent book sure um well first of all thank you for um for welcoming me I came to this book after the gene um for for really two reasons um the first reason was that um it seems to be obvious to us but actually it requires a little bit of thinking through but um you know the word life and the word Gene has started melding together the DNA which is of course the source of of uh carrying the the code of genetic code has become such an icon of life that if you see every time you see the word life you see a molecule of DNA and that's appropriate of course because as I said it is the code of life I was in a in a Botox Clinic outside Brazil not getting Botox but walking by called The Life Clinic and of course it had a piece of DNA in it and I thought to myself you know what's interesting about DNA or or or this whole idea this like this absolutely spectacularly beautiful molecule so beautiful that when it was first um modeled um a scientist came up to look at it in Cambridge came down to look it into the basement uh or Watson and critical working and said it's so beautiful that it's got to be right um so anyway so this has become such an icon um that we've forgotten that in fact without the cell it's actually lifeless it's a lifeless molecule you can swallow it and it'll go right through your system and it's a cell that brings it to life um and in fact if there was to be an icon of life it should really be the cell um it was dipped uh the prize was stolen by this beautiful molecule but anyway and that's partly because if I ask you to draw a cell you'd say to me with cell whatso uh neuron T cells B cells and they all look different from each other because they are so functionally diverse um so I I sometimes make a very simple comparison I say that you know if you imagine life's music being played out hence the title of this book or one reason for the title of the book um as a score um DNA is a score a score is not music uh it's not a song you need someone to play out that song and so you need the cell uh to play out that song um and just to bring that thought to its full conclusion um the if you think about um for a long time the physicists used to make fun of fun fun of us biologists and say you know we were the poorer second cousins or the third cousins you know the the folks used to go get the coffee um but um we've had our three grand unifying theories we as an biologists and by extension people who work in medicine have had our three grand unifying theories since the 1950s so evolution evolution by natural selection and Neo Darwinism and so forth uh the second being uh genetic theory the fact that life is carried the instructions of life is carried by code in fact happens to be Universal throughout the entire living Kingdom and finally cell theory now the first two have gotten a lot of attention you can probably find 10 million books on Evolution 10 million books on on genes and genetics including my own but somehow the cell again got jipped um and and of these three grand theories the three pillars on which are our whole understanding of Life understanding of biology sets the cell seems to be cell seems to have gotten the short end of the stick so I wanted to correct that I'm saying this only how Precision we have genuinely interested in in restoring back this this third this third pillar as it were and the second reason is the excitement um so the second reason is you know we're doing things with cells that we hadn't even imagined uh being able to do five ten years ago we were just talking about you know the things that we're doing we're transplanting pancreatic beta cells made out of es cells into human beings so that they can make Native insulin uh without having to uh stick up needle in their arms every few hours we are making uh you know we're flirting dangerously with the idea of making genetically altered uh uh children um but that dangerous flirtation comes from the fact that you know 50 40 or 40 odd years ago we began to be able to make children in a jar um I shouldn't say children in the jar the first embryo in a jar and then transfer that embryo into a human until that became a sentient human being so so all of this was was the motivation to start writing about this this revolution that we're seeing happen in front of our own eyes sitting in all of your books you weave together history and philosophy in addition to the current Science and Technology of the topic that you're covering why has that been important for you and and how does that enable you to really convey the type of message and story that you want to convey well I think history and philosophy history is particularly interesting and I talk about philosophy in a second but history is pretty interesting because it shows you process um and it shows you and we'll come to this in a second it shows you how many times we've been wrong and why we've been wrong what the misconceptions are what the misconceptions um and that humanizes the whole process of science it allows people to understand that we're not um in medicine as well that we're not omniscient human beings who make up their mind in a binary way that there's a literature that precedes us and there's a literature that will both seed us and that we live in in in the in the Realms between these two and it was very very obvious during the pandemic when people will come up to scientists and say you know make up your mind it's like as if someone is holding a gun to your and saying make up your mind you know is it a or b and you'd say no it's actually neither A or B because I need facts and the facts will lead me to make a conclusion about a and what will happen is that in 10 days those facts will change I'll have new information as as John Maynard famously said you know when facts change I change my mind what do you do um that doesn't mean that that we're pursuing rubbish and that's the important distinction it means that we're pursuing a process right and it's very important to remind people that that process has been around not yesterday not day before yesterday but has been around for centuries and that process has has merits as very important merits and that if you disrespect the process and if you throw the process around as if it was nothing you make a terrible mistake and those mistakes are what people are the mistakes that people have made in history so so I think history you know you may not care about the first person who looked down a microscope and made a decision or made a conclusion about a cell but I care very much because that person realized something so you relive their excitement but you also relive the process by which they arrived at a conclusion and then you in my often you really live the process by which they have to disabuse themselves of their own conclusions sometimes or certainly of other people's conclusions and I think that's very important to convey that this is this is much more Dynamic than you know than checking off two boxes or one or two boxes on on a multiple choice test maybe relaying those thoughts than the covid and the checking the box and how did we do during covid in terms of as scientists as physicians in communicating the process and communicating the uncertainty associated with the process as well as the uncertainty associated with the Stars Kobe 2 virus and what it was going to do as it evolved and what can we learn moving forward so I would say C minus um and for various reasons we can go into the reasons that you know if you want to ask questions about that but C minus and I think that we did that because uh the first thing was in order to try to convey a sense of authority we confused Authority with certainty and those are not the same things they're absolutely not the same thing uh Authority means learning or or convincing people that that the process has Authority uh that the way that we have adjudicate evidence that we know how to adjudicate evidence and new evidence keeps coming in and as the New Evidence comes in we have the capacity and we as a community have the capacity to adjudicate that evidence uh Authority and certainty are very different certainty is when when you are absolutely sure that you have to do something and you know what the and you understand also what the countervailing arguments are and you understand what the how the the risks and benefits adjust themselves out such that you get the you get the uh get the get the solution so I think we confused all of that and made a a tornado of confusion um and of course you know it's easy to point fingers and blame one person or another person but I think the community that the disservice and that was Amplified by or already seeming and sithering anti-science sentiments in the United States but coming out out of all of this and saying oh you know it's the anti-science sentiment outside the United States that's responsible for the breakdown of communication only presents out the story the other half belongs to us how do we do better moving forward I think we convey exactly those things um and and and reaffirm it in people the idea and it's going to take a long time because you know you have to rebuild trust um but reaffirm and reconfirm with with all people um that that there are methods that these are not corrupted and corruptable methods um what I've what I've been calling process scientific process um and has been around for a long time has worked for a long time worked during covid when it was appropriately applied um created new medicines I mean you know it's it's astonishing to me um how much uh bile has gone around um vaccination um remember this is a a vaccine that was made in such record time the last vaccine that was made if I remember correctly in time or or the timing for the making of the last vaccine was the vaccine against mumps that took four years this took six eight six to eight months to make a vaccine so you can imagine the enormous benefits all around the world not just around in the United States but around the world of the of of Science and it's it's various um capacities and then having done all of that having gained so much ground we lost all that ground because uh because actually we don't know we don't know how often you know how long that immunity lasts we don't know whether what and and we are we are now debating this this debate is obviously an open Society debate um and admitting that we don't know is a good thing because then at least people say to themselves okay these people don't know their recommendations are based on this much knowledge and I'll make a decision whether whether whether or not to do something or the other so I think you know we started off on a very very strong footing and and and as they say we we uh you know we we pulled out defeat from the jaws of Victory right right you you're a writer you're a scientist you're a physician and you weave all of those together and an entrepreneur you weave all those together in your life on a daily weekly quarterly yearly basis how can you talk about how each one contributes to the success of the other and we have also a number of students here today that I know look at your career just as I and so many people do is being inspiring and maybe you can relate back to your days at Stanford and did you have the vision of who you are today when you were a student here and how did it come together oh I had no vision um it wasn't I was wasn't as if I was sitting in the quad planning my uh my various careers I was too busy trying to finish my math homework which by the way I I can tell you a fun story um almost everyone here is either in medical school or is in biology Etc so we must have taken mathematics but at some point of time and and you know the the the the the two most important rules in mathematics um which I tell my children and they don't believe me still but I still think are the two most important rules in mathematics and maybe in biology actually maybe in all science is write big and have enough paper how about an eraser yes right big have enough paper and then and have an eraser because um because the problem is that it's actually it's actually interestingly true the problem is that if you write small first of all you can't read what you've written and secondly you you know your thoughts become smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller and so um there used to be um there used to be a because Stanford had just recovered from the earthquake so there used to be and I don't know they still are because of course things change and then they don't change there used to be a series of trailers um along uh Wilbur Drive um and every evening I would go and we would we organized our own study section between friends uh which was actually the only time I learned anything so and we would use the Blackboard as our board to solve problems because you can write big you can erase and you never run out of paper so um but but that's being facetious I mean the way these feed into each other in a more more substantive way is that that it's not they're not coincidences in other words each of these has something to do with the other um me being a physician I I right to think um very very often I will write something and realize something as I'm writing it that that if that's true then something else must be true and if something else must be true that must prompt a kind of experiment a kind of and it might be an experiment in looking through literature looking through research looking through history looking through philosophy etc etc um the entrepreneurship helps because it is the ultimate way I don't think about think of it as entrepreneurship I think of it as it is the ultimate proof of bringing medicines alive because if there are many reasons medicines don't get made ultimately and come out into the public but the ultimate proof of a theory being right um and and and being able to deal with the complexities for me as a physician scientist other people have different mechanisms of of proving themselves out but for me the ultimate proof is is that becomes is it becoming is it becoming a medicine and curing a disease because that's after all what I care about as a physician scientist uh the most um so they all are related to each other they Inspire each other they you know one inspires the writing the writing inspires the experimentation the experimentation there's sort of a dense web as it were that somehow seems to work for me um it's not for everyone other people are you know there's a famous Hedgehog and fox conundrum um and um I'm I often describe myself as you know I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm I'm a I'm a I'm really a hedgehog disguised as a as a fox and if you don't know what the condom is look it up what excites you today uh the book's out I'm sure you're already thinking about the next book or started yeah so so many things are exciting today I think um in the realm of science obviously Cell Therapy we're just talking about how cell therapy is exciting today um bringing cell therapy to humans at low cost um I think one of the proudest things I've done most recently is bring Cartoon therapies to India um and I saw there were tears in my eyes when I I saw the first boy walk out with relapsed a refractory all uh cured um that was probably the and he gave me as he walked out he gave me a drawing which I have in framed in my office a drawing of an elephant um and I now end my talks with that drawing because probably the most precious thing that ever anyone's ever given to me and this 10 year old boy hopefully will now live like Emily Whitehead is applying to college sure um she was seven when she had her relapse of factory leukemia and this boy left the hospital with no disease so that's CR um so I'm excited about that that requires a lot of engineering actually to bring those costs down so I'm excited about the role of engineering you're sitting in an engineering building engineering medicine um but I'm excited about all the new ideas that all of you completely bamboozle us with uh that we never would have thought of before and uh while we you know learn more from the rest of you basically that's what's exciting that's great that's great what um we also live in an ecosystem and you've been involved in your work in India where there are marked disparities in health and health care and disparities in how advances come to the benefit of those outside of sort of narrow regions that that have Premier tertiary coronary care what are your thoughts about how to certainly what you're doing in India with car T therapy but more broadly how we bring more advances in medicine to the developing world and also importantly how do we address the social behavioral environmental determinants that underlie so much of human disease right so let's I mean Also let's be clear I mean the the the idea of bringing cartese to India was is a little bit like sending a rocket from India to the moon it's not going to solve the the great social disparities that that exist but I do think that sometimes people miss the mark on this um I think that when you do send a rocket to the moon from a country like India or make car keys available and and you know the biggest believer in this was was Paul Farmer um who unfortunately passed away but the biggest believer in this was Paul Farmer because Paul argued that in creating the ecosystem that um that allows you to deliver T Cell Therapies in India you have to basically create the ecosystem that then spreads out into a much much broader Network and it it's it's um there are ineffable ways that that ecosystem then flourishes it flourishes through for instance um in which you can address cancer prevention uh ways in which you can address early detection behavioral change social and social behavioral change and so forth so I think that all of those are are ultimately related um and that occupying the tip of the ecosystem almost embarrasses the nation they're thinking about why we're occupying the tip of that ecosystem and thereby sort of grips downwards and it's not trickle down but it's it's almost as if there's a sense of pride in creating the ecosystem maintaining the ecosystem like one maintains a garden and then and then moving that ecosystem forward so for instance through the efforts on cartes in India which are obviously the the the very pencil tip of an ecosystem um this is the first question that that I get asked in India is you know which which we would never get the attention for by the way but because of that reason the media becomes interested and says well what should we do in India about cancer and the answer is not is not make more cartesians the answer is stop smoking sure um and um and then all of a sudden you get a headline in India which says you know cartoon expert says India's main job is to stop smoking so you've now completed a kind of circle and I think a virtuous circle um in which you've disseminated information from one very very local part of the ecosystem to something much much bigger which actually I care about in the sense that again we're not going to heal uh the problems of the third world using you know genetically engineered T cells well we are going to cure uh many many problems of the third world and other parts of the world using behavioral modification dietary modifications and other forms of of change um that that are important before we open it up to questions there are two questions I'd like to ask for each person have the privilege of talking to about leadership and the first is what do you think are the most important qualities of a leader today um well I would say the the um probably just given what what we've seen happen is is the capacity to admit defeat gracefully um because it's a it seems to me that half the world is in crisis because about four or five people in the world don't know how to say that we've lost um and so um that seems to be a missing quality gone missing in in leaders um um so that's that's one um the other one is um which is related but also unrelated um is is the capacity to to learn your own limitations and learn your learn where you end and where someone else's expertise begins um and this is something again we talked a little bit about in the context of science uh all scientists not all scientists are great communicators um let someone else help you who's done this before if you feel as if you can't do it yourself because ask for help when you need help um because there are people who actually who know how to do this professionally and and know how to how to make this possible and what gives you hope for the future um most people in this audience I think um you know I love coming back to Stanford because it makes me uh very happy about sort of what's Happening Here as a university but in general in in universities I mean the uh obviously I got an absolutely spectacular education here but uh but there was much more to that more than that um sort of I learned how to negotiate the world um and um my only complaint back then I think for Stanford University was that it was two it was too much still um uh in its own head um and I think that I've seen that change very dramatically um and I think that's one of the things that has been really remarkable to us wonderful well let's open it up for questions from the audience hi I'm I'm Denny Lund I'm the chief medical officer here at the Children's Hospital and a pediatric surgeon by training so you've got a busy life you're writing books you're an oncologist Columbia you've got a family you've got two little girls talk about how you approach work-life balance with all of that you know it's very tough um I sometimes say facetiously I think it's overrated but I don't think it is I think that's one area that covet has shown that um that if you disrupt normal work-life balance you actually can be very very destructive to Mental Health um I've written about it it's in this book actually um and um so I think it's very tough I think the only way to do this is really um well I take what I call Mini sabbaticals of my own making from some part of my life so um right now I'm taking sort of a mini sabbatical from seeing patients I'm only seeing patients that I'm that I see in on a continual basis not taking new any new ones um I'm also taking a sort of a mini sabbatical from writing so usually at the end of when you bring a big book out people want excerpts then they want more uh they want you to write more about it and they want you to and I I just told my publisher you know I don't have any words left in my brain so I'm not going to write you know three more op-ed faces pieces for the New York Times um and so anyway that that that's how my approaches is to really sort of it's almost like medical triage so I see I look after the sickest or or the ones that are most urgently necessary now and take minutes about because from other parts of my life yes hi thank you so much for your talk uh I'm showbo I'm an undergrad here studying computer science very interested in using tech for healthcare delivery and um also very interested in writing um actually leading helping to co-lead one of the student Publications on campus around biology and Healthcare and Innovation and I wanted to ask you I loved what you said about writing to think and how you use writing as a means to think and come up with ideas and just wanted to ask more about like what your writing process looks like from like an idea to a book or an idea to an op-ed uh-huh um so um um as I suspect that my writing process is a little bit uh unique um uh I well let me tell you several things about it that I've slowly started figuring out um so when I'm in the middle of a book or in the middle of a very large piece let's say for the New Yorker you know that could easily stretch into you know writing a big major New Yorker piece could it's like writing a small book anyway um there is a process that goes through my mind of being immersed in that book especially if it's a book but even a small op-ed in which I actually think and I've been really trying to visualize it I have a an internal conversation and I actually think that my brain the two parts of my brain the one that produces words actually sounds out those words as if they were a sentence um because you want your writing to have that conversational quality about it um and I think that parts of my brain that are that listen to it and I and I know this or I think this because I when I write I need absolute silence even like the small noises distract me um and so and I and I think that that's the reason is that I'm trying to listen to my own voice in my head uh so um a different way of putting it would be that that I'm listening to voices in my head is called psychosis but but there is a psychotic element to it in the sense that you are really in that moment or in that sphere and so my process is very much that I need a lot of isolation um and I you know I take a sabbatical I uh even at you know in the middle of the book I often take a sabbatical from my lab from my own lab so I assign projects I meet people only for an hour or an hour and a half during the day to make sure that the products are alive and they haven't died but then I go back into my room shut the door complete silence again you know Retreat and then and then and then continue the writing wonderful let's have a round of applause to thank our guests beautiful question thank you very much and like thank you very much Sid thank you for listening to the minor consult with me Stanford School of Medicine Dean Lloyd Miner I hope you enjoyed today's discussion with song of the sale author Siddhartha Mukherjee please send your questions by email to the minor consult at the minorconsole.com and check out our website the minorconsult.com for updates episodes and more to get the latest episodes of the minor consult subscribe on Apple podcasts Spotify Stitcher or wherever you listen and if you enjoyed today's episode please rate the podcast five stars your feedback helps make this podcast happen thank you so much for joining me today I look forward to our next episode until then stay safe stay well and be kind [Music] thank you [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: SQOrMbn_fKU (https://youtu.be/SQOrMbn_fKU) ===

president vice president members of council deans heads of school faculty and distinguished guests you're all very very welcome to rc aside this evening for a very special event this guest lecture is delivered by dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee and my colleague dr. NIMH professor Neve Morin will introduce in more detail I think we're in for a very special lecture a lecture titled three visions of a medical future genes risk and precision I think gives us some sense of what's ahead of us I'm delighted to welcome you to our CSI many of you are familiar with us for some of you it's perhaps your first time to the College our CSI was founded in 1784 initially as a surgical College today we are Arlen's only independent not-for-profit focused Health Sciences institutional with undergraduate schools of physiotherapy pharmacy medicine school of postgraduate studies school of Healthcare Management a significant Research Institute we pride ourselves in being totally focused on healthcare and health sciences we also take pride in the fact that we're very internationally focused for many many years our CSI has been the the front line of international students to coming to Ireland but also we have a presence overseas with our training institute in Dubai University in Bahrain to medical schools in Malaysia and we are the largest working with Irish aid supporter of surgical training in the 14 countries that make up the Cossacks an area of West in southern Africa making a significant contribution to delivery of surgical care in that region we adore CSI I have spent the last year crafting our strategy as we go forward in some ways a celebrating the establishment of this building and as we plan our future campus and our future as a Health Sciences Institute looking at how we can make a contribution to health care locally and globally and to us it's very clear that we live in an age of constraint with a real big medical issue of our time is how can we provide high quality safe and effective care two growing populations with increasingly complex diseases with increasingly expensive treatments with with less and it's a combination of increasing the scope of practice of existing professions conceiving new professions making impactful discovery and the early treatment prevention and diagnosis of disease and furthermore engaging with society and both locally and internationally in education in programs designed to prevent and manage diseases already so it's particularly pertinent that we have a scientist a clinician of the caliber of doctor Siddhartha Mukherjee to address us tonight was its immense honor to be able to talk today and thank you for inviting me this is a great great institution that I've admired for all my life and it's been a real pleasure to come here and be able to talk I in some ways this is an unusual talk to give because this audiences simultaneously very clinically sophisticated scientifically sophisticated but I wanted to go backwards and ask some questions that are that may be more relevant to us as a society as a whole and one of the things I want to achieve in this talk is to paint with you a picture of a medical future in cancer what what happens next and how it might affect us and whether we're culturally socially biologically prepared for that moment and what its consequences might be if we move forward how does this scale to the rest of the world what happens what are the consequences for us understanding our own bodies in in this manner I want to begin by something that was written about the Emperor of all maladies when the book first came out it first came out in 2010 and this was a review that was then published in The New Yorker and it ended I with a with a place that I did fully then understand in fact the technology was not even there to understand this this was a final comment about the review but I actually grew to understand it more especially as my own family matured and entered a kind of life of illness my own father written about it and my own father antipholus Steven shapin a historian of Medicine wrote a world in which cancer is normalized as a manageable chronic condition would be a wonderful thing but then he goes on to say but a risk factor world in which we all think of ourselves as precancerous as people waiting to have cancer would not it might decrease the incidence of some forms of malignancy while hugely increasing the numbers of healthy people under medical treatment so here he's raising the question of what it means to be over diagnosed of course that's a medical term but he's also raising the question of what it means to be under surveillance from a disease you haven't yet had the the word that was not used there here but has actually come into language since then is the word provider a provider is a survivor of a disease that you haven't yet had that of course generates a kind of flitter of humor but imagine now being that person imagine being under risk or being under surveillance for future risk and and think about what that would mean to us as as human beings and finally shape and concludes it would be a strange victory in which the price to be paid for checking the spread of cancer through the body is its uncontrolled spread through the culture I think there were interesting words interesting idea what's in what was to me most remarkable that when this was written in 2010 we did not have really the technology and the tools to understand risk in this way we had the potential but we didn't have the tools in the eight odd years that have passed since then we have entered this world in a very forceful way we've entered a world where where the spread of cancer through the body is becoming is becoming tantamount to it's uncontrolled spread through the culture Susan Sontag writing very famously as you might no cultural critic but also a writer concluded her or pardon me began her book illnesses metaphor by arguing that every person has simultaneous citizenship between the Kingdom of the world and the kingdom of the ill that she described it but in some text time there was a bi-directional passage you could enter the kingdom of the ill and then come back to the kingdom of the will you had as sonntag herself would describe you get passports to build kingdoms the fear that shapen is trying to illustrate and the fear that I think is is the center of this talk is whether we have now stopped the bi-directional passage once you enter the kingdom of Al you are always under surveillance you are always under the threat of future illness and you become a locus of risk and of course it would be a remarkable thing if we could use that to decrease all illnesses and a possibility of death or delay the possibility of death from illness because of that surveillance but I want to also take a moment as we move forward to consider what would mean for our bodies ourselves in our cultures so to summarize then I'm going to put the summary of the talk right in front because it's gonna be quite complicated things coming down the road we are beginning to understand cancer at a cellular and molecular level this understanding I think is highlighted the enormous diversity of individual cancers we'll talk about that that understanding from capital C cancer cancer is a single disease to the idea that every individual cancer has its own set of genetic mutations has its own behavior and in fact maybe need to be treated in a in a way that's that is relatively individualized this diversity may the emphasis is on may demand precision or partly individualized therapies I don't think we will get to a place where every single patient is treated individually I think that would break our understanding of what it would mean to deliver precision medicine at scale that to many many many patients but I do think that we will begin to parse human beings human cancers into individual parts breast cancer will come in thousands of genetic and epigenetic subtypes which will then demand individualized therapies for those subtypes and also we know that early treatment is likely to bring benefits if you put these two points together this is the the notion of diversity and and the fact that early treatment is likely to bring benefits then detecting early and treating precisely are likely to be themes in the medical future of cancer this really falls out of the first the last two pieces and and then comes the the piece that I want to consider ultimately which is that however such a world of surveillance diagnosis and treatment carries cultural burdens that we are I would I would argue still unprepared for and that's really the focus in the center of this talk about genes risk and precision so I'm I'm gonna actually take an unusual break here and and and take you to a moment in in in the film that I did with Ken this was for PBS it was a vast production ultimately reaching several several million viewers for three nights but I was particularly moved by one tiny episode of a woman entering this world a woman entering this world of genetic risk and precision medicine and that's the story of Lori Wilson Lori Wilson is a breast surgeon she is a teacher she is still alive today is a teacher and her practice is in the in at a major hospital near Baltimore and in the middle of her practice as a resurgence she gets ironically diagnosed with bilateral breast cancer herself and she goes back in a very moving moment this was actually captured in film in an unanticipated way we heard news and she was extraordinarily generous to let us allow us to film her journey with with her as a really as it as something that that her residents could learn from is an extraordinary human being but she goes back then to her own professor who she she she trained with to have her mastectomy done and this is a moment in which she's just about to catch the flight but entering this this piece was called on the cutting floor it was called welcome to cancer land entering this world of genetic risk surveillance see then gets genetically tested she then enters her her chemotherapy and finally enters a word in which she is technically cured of the cancer but she has to continuously monitor herself and be continuously monitored for future risk of cancer she has now acquired that one directional passage into the world of the ill so I'm gonna break here and I'm gonna ask for some help because I don't know how to operate these fancy pieces this is a short clip from the film called welcome to cancer land or Lori Wilson's haircut it's been a month since Lori's diagnosis and her 20 week regimen of chemotherapy has begun [Music] what are you doing I'll go first yeah my husband actually is gonna shave his head with me and so we will until my hair grows back we'll both be bald together he's my rock he's been there for everything don't forget I've been bullheaded before 20 years ago yeah before Laura and I got together in the first winter when I grow in her and then Lord liked my hair when I haven't shaved it since you can take it off all kinds [Music] [Music] [Music] I don't buy into the limey because so much of cancer is not predictable there's not said on family history or any feature and so absolutely it could be me hey you recognize mom II have a 19 month old and I want to see my son grow up see my son get married and go to grad school all the good stuff that we expect for family and with this diagnosis that's more difficult thing to see well we get back in I make all my students watch that until it it's unbearable and then the reason is because as we as we are trying to find invent new therapies for cancer we have no idea until we become patients ourselves what it's like to enter this world and I think it's absolutely important as in the profession of medicine to understand what what it's like being on the other side because we will be on the other side at some point of time as well but also because that's fundamentally about what we do in in the delivery of medicine I'm going to take a little bit of a tour then to bring us up to this place the so called welcome to cancer land space and it will be a little bit of a detour through history a couple of slides and then I'm going to talk a little more deeply about precision risk and and what it means for the future so long before the word cancer existed long before the even the idea of cancer existed the question of what it would mean to diagnose cancer was there because cancer is an ancient midlist we didn't know words for it we didn't have the language of the vocabulary for it this is probably the first time cancer is described in human history it's this is from the Edwin Smith papyrus described as a mass in the breast as dense encoded as a human fruit and this this was actually a surgical document many of you are familiar with this map iris and and one of the things that that's written in the document is that there is no treatment there was no way at least the ancient surgeons had no way to find a treatment and the word cancer didn't arise until much later it was it's rumoured we don't know that Hippocrates himself used the word cancer partly because all the word karkinos rather because the he imagined or the contemporaneous surgeons imagined disease it looked like a crab buried underneath the sand because all the blood vessels around it were like the legs of the crab other people think that it has to do with the movement of cancer in the body the Matassa metastatic quality of cancer in the body but nonetheless this metaphor stuck through history and the once that word was coined it somehow described so many things we began to find metaphors within that metaphor of cancer using that idea to describe this this set of illnesses but what the cause was what why these illnesses arose in the first place remained an enormous mystery until really work done by several people I'm here highlighting work done by work ow work how was a cellular physiologist pathologist but work how was interested in in he began with very simple tenets very simple ideas very simple principles and that idea was the idea that that all cells came from other cells that it didn't arise out of out of the blue out of they did not arise from miasma or from from some kind of gaseous substance that the only way a cell could arise was from a previous cell like a radical idea and it's time do we take it vastly for accepted but a radical idea in its time and if you then thought through that process if you taught thought to the process of if all cells arise rose from other cells and work how also along with his contemporaries realized that cancer was a cellular disease it was a disease of cellular growth cellular aberration whenever he looked at pathological specimens he found in overabundance of cells he he wondered whether it was actually the growth of cells that was out of control but if you thought about that you quickly realized that if cancer cells arose from cells then they must arise in turn from normal cells so something must have happened some activity must have happened to convert a normal cell into a cancer cell and the question then became what was that what what how what had happened the process was later known as transformation because obviously something vast had changed in the physiology ology of the cell a normal cell knows when to stop dividing one idea that I'd like to plant to him again with my students when I when I talk to them is it's astonishing to me that when you cut yourself you don't grow a new hand what prevents us like trees from constantly growing new limbs and branches obviously some process which we still don't fully understand we understand some principles a bit but you would be you know this is one of those mysteries that keeps thickening the more you study biology why is it that that a wound knows how to heal itself and then stop healing whereas obviously many tumors don't know how to stop growing their cellular systems are aberrant but Brooke how didn't know that and for a long time the only solution to this was to remove the without understanding the cause was to remove the the the lesion the culprit lesion and that of course led to the golden age of cancer surgery we will come back to cancer surgery as the mainstay of cancer therapy the pillar on which early cancer therapy is still for solid tumors still is built but but the idea then eventually as I described in the book many many times we will see this coming over and over again they're very successful powerful idea becomes a seduction in itself in cancer it becomes a fully circular the logic becomes fully circular and that was circularized that logic was made fully internal by williams toward Halsted the great surgeon who began to advance the theory that if local if a lift local therapy for breast cancer was was good then more local therapy was better and even more local therapy was even better thereby progressing therapy slowly towards an ultra radical and in his students towards a super radical mastectomies that would popular in the 40s 50s and 60s this is a quote from house which I found removing the patient was a young woman who I was loath to disfigure but the idea that you had to somehow intrude or invade a person's body and make them undergo a sacrifice off off the self in order to get rid of the cancer was very much part of the seduction of this early period of radical therapy for surgery but it wasn't until really the 1960s 70s and 80s decades after the success of surgical therapy for cancer tipping over towards the X excess of radical surgery that we began to understand what that mysterious cause that had had had fascinated workou was many people were involved in this work I'm not gonna take individual names but the the idea that came out of the 1980s in cancer was a truly transformative idea and that is that cancer occurs when normal growth controlling genes metabolism controlling genes are mutated and these mutations thereby fail to tell us cell how to stop growing and and co-opt the physiology of the cell towards malignant growth to some extent they also occasionally tell us cell to stop dying but really it is a it is a compound or it's it's a consequence of mutations in genes that ultimately cause cells to stop knowing how to regulate their normal physiological growth and this was described by Howard Barmes and others but picking up a lovely phrase from Beowulf in which he described cancer as a distorted version of our normal selves and of course that explained this idea that cancer arose as a consequence of mutations in normal cellular genes in genes that are present in every cell for mutations in those genes those growth controlling genes ultimately Unleashed cancerous growth was a was an idea that sent a real chill up the spines of the entire field of cancer biology because the very genes that caused our wounds to heal ourselves to grow our blood to be able to fight infections those very genes in their mutual aid form in the mutated mutant forms were now implicated as as cancers as causal for cancer the other thing that was very important is that they solved a very particular mystery that had been raging in the field for a very long time which is we knew that that that heredity was involved in cancer because you had familial risk of cancer this is a picture of of the of the of the Brazilian ophthalmologist hilarya Juvia who had tracked retinoblastoma eye cancers very rare unusual cancers criss-crossing through a particular resilient family but eventually found in many other families so their heredity was involved here is a picture of Percival Pott sir Percival Pott who as many of you know was among the first to coin the idea that some factor in the environment which he called he actually coined the term carcinogen something that would give rise to cancer some fact in the environment could also cause cancer he did this by famously associated chimney sweepers young boys who swept chimneys with a high risk of a particular form of scrotal cancer and he surmised something in chimney dust was was causing this unusual form of cancer chance was known to play a role for a long time there were people with no histories of cancer no known exposures who would suddenly develop cancer and finally Peyton Rous made the argument in 1900 in 1900 said viruses were implicated in in the development of many cancers now for a long time the question is how you could he you know square these four pieces that seemed very disparate but of course by the 1980s if you suddenly understood that at the center of all of this were the genes in in your cells the mystery of multiple causes could be solved because heredity you can either you could inherit the genes from your parents you could mutate the genes by through the in through environmental influences such as chimney soot or such as x-rays you could develop mutations by virtue of chance when cells divide like all copying machines they make errors so you could mutate the genes of the consequence of chance and viruses could tamper with your genetic material or bring in foreign genetic material that would thereby allow you to a cell that is now carrying material genetic material that is ultimately result results in cancer so everyone clear so far this was a major moment for our field where the mystery of multiple causes was was partly solved and and this gave rise to I mean this was coincident with with with with with the 1960s suddenly the locus of illness moving from outside us to inside us famously captured by the sentence we have met the enemy and he is us from there on that's sort of where our story takes off in terms of of risk and precision we knew by the 1980s and certainly by the early 1990s that as I said before genetic changes in cells was responsible for the development of individual cancers but the question then became well what is what what is the similarity or difference between two for two breast cancers say is it the same mutation is that one mutation per cancer is that different set of mutations five mutations for different cancers breast cancer has five retinoblastoma has three sarcoma has seven what is the what's the spectrum look like and there were many many ideas about this but the real solution to this came from the genome projects you know we think about the human genome project as a kind of you know end in itself but of course for from the standpoint of a cancer biology the human genome project is just a template for the Cancer Genome Project which is a mechanism or an effort to understand the diversity of cancers based on their genetic fingerprint so genetics so again this is a schematic here leading up to art ar-ar-ar-ar talk but by the 1990s and early 2000s we began to ask the question if you take five specimens of breast cancer so just restricting it to breast cancer say or five specimens of lung cancer what is we know that in all cases will find mutated genes that's the central cause are they the same are they different how are they similar how are they different and here was the surprise here was they was the powerful message that came out of that story so here's a schematic here's a woman who comes into your clinic let's say she has breast cancer we're using that as an example still and we have the capacity as we acquired to map the genetic mutations in her cancer so imagine that all her genes her genome is like a big snake that's crossing Criss crossing this blank sheet of paper and you find your capacity to map the genetic mutations that she has this one woman has in her breast cancer and they're 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 genes that are mutated the number can be anywhere between 8 to 130 so I've just chosen a simple example here a second woman comes into your clinic also has breast cancer and previously would be you know we would looked on the microscope and conclude that she had breast cancer but now we looked on the genetic microscope and find that she has a spectrum of mutations in her breast cancer in her case also eight genes but they're not the same age as the first woman and here's the third woman who comes in and they're they're even more discordant to some extent now what's interesting about this and this turned out to be a principle which was true for virtually all cancers not every cancer but virtually most common cancers in which the spectrum of genetic mutations of the individuals fingerprint of genetic mutations for one cancer was not the same as a second cancer even within the same subtype ma is that clear it's the foundation on which that this talk is is based so there has to be very clear in other words at two specimens of breast cancer even though they might look similar under the microscope carry different spectra of mutations in their genes in their genomes we have never experienced we've never encountered a disease with this level of genetic diversity in which every single example of that disease is its own example of the disease and we eventually found out that it's actually even true at a cellular level if you take one tumor and you looked at the cells in that one tumor it turns out that even there within that one tumor there are there are slightly different variations in genetic mutations so the level of genetic diversity goes right down to the cellular level not just in an individual level so one of the things that we began to do in the 1990s is to look at this data and throw our hands up and say is there any possible way to organize this information so that at least we can be systematic about how to treat cancer how to think about risk how to think about genetic risk for an individual cancer and one way to organize this of course is just to ask the question well what are the most frequent mutations here's one that's present in all three specimens here's another one that's present only in one specimen not present in any other specimen so can you now collapse all these charts and make a kind of landscape view of cancer and this was what we actually looked like this is colorectal cancer and here you see common mutations these big Peaks that are common across many many individuals individuals and then you see rare ones these white dots are mutations that occur only in one individual and not in any other individual I hope this is now clear in terms of what the actual diversity of cancers looks like looked like at that point of time so and this is just to illustrate that you had all kinds of mutations some were common some were less common some were extremely uncommon in these cancers so you could then begin to think about these cancer cells or these cancers as a kind of malignant machine in which not one gene but a kind of network of genes was communicating with each other driving the physiology or the aberrant physiology of the cancer it wasn't one gene per cancer it was as if it was there were parts of cogs to a machine in which parts of the machine were driving the physiology of the aberrant behavior of the cancer cell at that point of time a nihilist would say you know this is far too complicated we cannot possibly make sense of this kind of information with every individual patient carrying individual mutations but the field moved on and we began to ask the question what if we took for instance genetic sorry not a genetic but a therapy and we matched the therapy we found we matched that therapy with the individual fingerprint of the cancer in other words instead of treating indiscriminately with chemotherapy cell destroying cell killing compounds chemicals what have we found a way to target a particular Achilles heel a particular weakness of one cancer matching that weakness that genetic weakness with the therapy so that if you had that genetic weakness in your genetic vulnerability in your cancer you would benefit from the therapy but if you didn't have it you would not benefit from that therapy and there are many examples of this or the one that shows Anisa septon Herceptin is a drug that attacks antibody that attacks one particular genetic aberration in one kind one subset of breast cancer it will not work if you do not have that genetic aberration and therefore only is is a successful therapy for people who carry that genetic aberration and this is a picture that of Barbara Bradfield's bad field was in the first trial of Herceptin this is the phase one really phase zero phase one trial of Herceptin when she's when they when they first launched the drug she almost refused that her stories in my book I've encouraged you she's and she was interviewed also for for the film this was about 18 17 odd years ago was when she was first diagnosed with breast cancer she happened to be patient one on the trial she also happened to be have the best response to Herceptin in the entire study she almost refused to do it but ultimately it was a very persistent surgeon and the very persistent oncologist who kept calling her and saying would you please enroll and she was going to take you know she was gonna take juices in Mexico but instead she went to LA and and became the first patient she had metastatic her2 positive breast cancer and had a really spectacular response and is actually alive today so she has is not only patient one is actually the longest surviving human being to be on Herceptin therapy but the principle of Herceptin therapy is just a principle it's not it doesn't apply it applies across the board which is that if you find a powerful molecular mechanism driving the genetic mechanism driving the individual behavioral growth for cancer cell you can on certain occasions intervene it proved the point that you could do this in a systematic way without giving talks chemotherapy in isolation um and this is actually from that pivotal trial this was published in the New England Journal Medicine which showed very clear thesis these are patients with disseminated or metastatic her2 positive breast cancer you what was very clear is that if you did not have the genetic mutation or the vulnerability you would not benefit from the treatment in other words those those patients would look exactly the same these are survival curves people in the audience may be familiar with them but these are survival curves starting with a hundred percent survival obviously at the beginning of the trial if you took no Herceptin then you unsaddle e rapidly passed away in a course about twenty months were with Herceptin that was that was prolonged so significantly that you know you could do statistics on this but you did not need statistic swab we used to have a an instructor I'm sure this has been said many times before is that if you look at a if you look at a a plot in and you could put a finger in between the two lines you don't need to do sophisticated statistics to figure out whether the drug is whether the drug is working or not that's true for penicillin it's also true for Herceptin anyway so back to Herceptin also called trastuzumab but a second important principle fell out of that and this now bring deepens us in our plot which is that if you took patients with metastatic breast cancer and not I'm sorry if that's not visible but that's just metastatic breast cancer so this is patients like Barbara Bradfield their cancer has been discovered found late in the in the journey of cancer found late in their their history of cancer then certainly you found benefit so this is patients treated with or versus without Herceptin II you can clearly see a massive change in survival of these patients but and there was a huge but here which we hadn't expected it was really a surprise and actually actually one of the most beautiful surprises in medicine which is that if you now gave patients Herceptin after diagnosing early disease that is they had had cancer detected in their in their breast and the surgeon removed that cancer there was no physical sign or visible of cancer left in the body so these people were at risk for metastatic disease if there were certain cells left over in their body there too Herceptin was successful and and in fact remarkably successful this is so-called adjuvant therapy for Herceptin this is what we actually now routinely are giving and that is patients who've had a primary breast tumor removed sometimes small sometimes big genetically characterized as I said before so there we understand a genetic risk and then give them a drug even if there is no sign of cancer left in their body these people are technically disease-free they have no evidence of disease but we still gave them Herceptin to clear out remnant dormant cancer cells that we had been missed or somehow had escaped the local surgical excision they too had benefit and now their survival climbed to about 93 percent 90 now it's about 90 with new drugs it's about 92 percent that's an incredible number in other words 90-odd percent of women with a common variant of breast cancer her2 positive breast cancer we're having survivals of in as I said in the 90 percent at five years that's a transformational therapy for cancer and of course there are other examples of this they're not terribly common we haven't achieved this in virtually you know we haven't achieved this in many cancers but this was a very pivotal moment in the in 2005 when this trial first came out and there grew from this again I'm not sure if you can see this so sorry about the colors but I'll read it out but can you see this in the back yes you can okay I can so um but there grew an important idea which which I discussed recently at our main Clinical Oncology meeting which is this idea of an experiment which is could we now imagine a world in which we detect cancer early and then personalize based on genetic assessment and then give some kind of targeted therapy or immunological therapy could we now change the direction of cancer an experiment we have not so again and we then began to think of cancer as a disease of mitigated risk which is can we reduce those at risk by identifying them can we detect early and identify those likely to progress and then can we treat with the most effective least toxic therapy and maintain a response mission it was a new kind of map of thinking about cancer rather than you know how do we attack and kill a tumor once it's spread all over the body we can we push the diagnostic clock backwards do as minimal invasion remove the primary tumor characterize it genetically and then deliver therapy and of course these coming doublets or pairs one of them has to do with risk the second has to do with the detection the third has to do with therapy so this in I would say in the 2000s were in the 2000s now so what we identify people at risk and we had in fact a traditional way of identifying people at risk we called it taking a patient's history and physical you ask them questions about their own history their family history we ask them questions about their exposures we ask them we try to determine who is at a higher risk for this kind of cancer in breast cancer they had particular epidemiological studies that allowed us to find out women who had been higher or lower risk and then we also ask questions about heredity the problem was that once in a while we would get powerful here at hereditary stories mom had breast cancer grandma had breast cancer paternal cousin maternal cousin etc and when the histories were that strong we began to identify single genes like Braca one like bracket 2 which would track those histories and allow us to enable us to understand why this particular woman in the clinic had breast cancer that particular man in the clinic had an unusual sarcoma because his father his uncle his etc had also had some other cancers so we found single genetic vulnerabilities that tracked through families but we were still lacking a kind of deep analysis of risk and but we began to build even from those simple ideas some sense of what might happen in the future that history and generics would somehow funnel into our assessment of risk that we would then screen or biopsy these people these patients if we had cancer detected we would then deliver precision therapy so they said from that from this days of Herceptin we had taken yet another step towards trying to diagnose cancer earlier trying to intervene less and trying to personalize or target the therapy since that time 2005-2006 another ten orders has passed and now we are really deepening our understanding of these ideas and that this is where my where I'm ending going to end my my my talk and that is that we are finally moving from the simple assessment of genetic risk to the complex assessment of genetic risk so I'll give you an example of this and now talk about some of the themes that are emerging in in the future so here is a simple pedigree of breast cancer this is a genetic risk for breast cancer Kerry in this case by the bracket1 gene mutation most of you are familiar with it but if you're not think of it as a mutation that in carried across multiple generations that increases the risk of not just breast cancer but also other cancers breast cancer in women to some extent there other genes that have risk for men but also other cancers that are carried that are increase in risk if you have the genetic mutation this mutation was identified using very classical genetic studies and we actually by 2005-2006 we were actually tracking had vast programs across the world in in the UK in Ireland in in in Asia certainly in the United States cohorts of women with baraka one gene mutations who we were diagnosed as carrying brocco bomb mutations and who we were following to find out what the best way to treat survey and and understand the biology of these of these patients the word previa work came from that cohort actually these were the women who coined the word pre Viper to describe their sense or state in the world in which they felt they didn't have cancer but they were under constant threat of cancer for future cancers occurring so but the problem was that if you took a hundred women with familial breast cancer so you know that there's a family history of breast cancer and ask the question how many of those can be explained by single gene mutations like bracket 1 or bracket 2 you're only stuck with about 25-30 percent seventy five percent of those hundred seventy five of those hundred women we knew had familial risk their pedigree actually might look exactly like this you know grandmother with breast cancer mother cousin etc with breast cancer but we had no way of diagnosing those people because we didn't know what the risk was carried by we didn't know what the genes were and we knew that wasn't one gene because of the nature of the often of the pedigrees but we didn't know what their risk would be and again from the from the from the community of women with familial breast cancer came the word bracket 3 bracket 3 to describe not bracket 1 and bracket 2 but bracket 3 as a kind of shadow of genetic shadow that you couldn't put your hands on you couldn't put your finger on but existed we knew existed because you could see it in the family history but you couldn't a woman would come and say look I have a family history of breast cancer what should I do and we could not say you know your risk is heightened compared to your sister because we had no idea what the gene was there was no real way to assess those genes so one of the things that's happened in that period of time is that we're now entering an arena in which we are diagnosing understanding this risk in complex through complex genetics it's not one gene but maybe 100 maybe 200 maybe 500 genes each of which increases contributes to a tiny increase in risk it's like death by a thousand cuts and and the cumulative risk may have may rise to a woman who has just that one powerful drop of one gene mutation but it's carried not by one gene but by hundreds maybe even on sometimes up to a thousand genes and the paradigm for that might be human height so human height is a great example so highly heritable tall parents tend to produce Torture and shorter parents tend to produce shorter children but in all the efforts to find you know determinate genetic determinants of human height we'd only found a smattering right some very extreme cases Marfan syndrome mucus identified single genetic changes which increase high but you know it was very hard to explain such a common phenomenon as human height based on genetic analysis well that began to change and really was was one of the models for this so I'll give you this one example this actually this paper I found while looking through the I've been interested in human height not for personal reasons but but bribing is in human height for exactly this characteristic because although it seems so far away from cancer it is in fact carries all the lessons that we have to learn in cancer and genetic risk here's a paper based on the UK biobank in which several hundred thousand now human beings a sequence was deposited along with a lots of biometric data Heights age risk of cancer ovarian cancer breast cancer other things and you could now use standard computational technologies to go and ask the question can you reconstruct from the genetic architecture what their features will be so here is height I found this type this this study has so many consequences and so many ethical consequences really boggles the mind but anyway here is the algorithm here's an algorithm that was developed from by a group here's the actual height and here is the predicted height now remember we are basing this just on genetic information alone in other words if this was an infant in utero this would be based on a drop of blood that came from the the infant's bloodstream if this was a fingerprint or a brush of DNA that was found it would be based on just that not knowing who the person was and this algorithm performs remarkably well so a perfect fit would be a straight line going up and this is what the actual fit is in other words you could now get to a place where within about half a centimeter or maybe about you know five six centimeters at the at the at the far limit you can diagnose human height based on just genetic information alone of course it's a you know still much to be refined we do this is applicable across all geographic populations so much to be done here but nonetheless and what's interesting about it is that in this case three to five thousand genes were involved so 10 percent of of our genetic 10 odd percent of our genetic variability was required to explain the variation in human height then things got close to home this is breast cancer using now not machine learning but simple additive learning still a complicated algorithm so here is the genetic risk for breast cancer again from the same cohort I'll give you one example from heart disease and then go on to breast cancer in a second so here is heart disease this is the population right here's a tiny top 2.5 percent of the population that has a score up to 4 fold so in other words here is a person who sits in this genetic risk category who has 8 fold the risk of cardiovascular disease compared to the rest of the population they have eight eight to ten fold the risk and you can do the same for breast cancer these are people who don't have the bracket one in bracket two genes but have on the order of hundreds of individual genetic mutations genetic variations that are adding up to the risk so here's one example in breast cancer you don't have to focus on all the details but this is the top point two five percent of the distribution that top 2.5 percent distribution carries 5 fold or 4.5 forward the risk of breast cancer compared to everyone else so this is bracketry these women have that that long sought after bracket 3 and there will be even deeper refinements there will be women in the top top 0.125 percent of the population who will have 7 fold the risk or 9 for the risk compared to everyone else is everyone following all of this by the way sorry so and here's where this is for obesity by the way mister obesity highly heritable top point 2 5 percent of the population carries six point seven seven percent of risk so you could identify a person likely to become obese and have all the future risks diseases associated with obesity in utero based on risk assessment of this form again has to be extrapolated to a wider population but you can already start seeing what this world has begin beginning to look like in which you are beginning to parse future illness before the illness is occurred and that genetics is not the only I'll take a small detour but genetics is not the only way of course to understand future risk this is an actual case this is my friend with a Pierce key this is the picture of will have taken about five years ago he's a obviously a young man this was taken at a wedding of a friend of his and if you look carefully you would see his mother got these pictures for me if you look carefully there'll be two lesions one here and one over here [Music] one of them is malignant turned out to be a malignant melanoma and we now know from work done actually now repeated a couple of times that you can use just the imaging alone potentially even in imaging from a high-resolution photograph to diagnose malignant versus benign lesions by using an algorithm by itself a deep learning or a machine learning algorithm can diagnose these now to me I've seen hundreds maybe a several hundred melanomas I could not tell you for without a pathologist cell for the life of me why this lesion is malignant while that lesion is benign they look exactly the opposite to me but this algorithm can this algorithm classified based on 500,000 pictures of melanoma to distinguish between malignant and benign lesions and one thing I always tell again the residence just to scare them Jesus out of them is that when that when they start learning learning they start with they go from the first case the see growth takes them from a case study of zero to a case study of one when I add one more case to this computer database it goes from case study of five hundred thousand to five thousand and one so you can imagine that the accumulative learning for this is enormous and this is a we will I suspect fuse with these detect detection devices like chimeras in order to carry forward the next generation of the matter pathologic diagnosis and other diagnosis this is another study this is not coming out of Stanford Sebastian Thrun work which attempts to do this for pancreatic cancer cancer that's been very very hard to detect as many of you know this actually acts as a fascinating device who knows whether it's going to work or not so I want to push it but this is a device that scans you it's a it's built into a bathtub so it's an ultrasound device that you would enter every day and that would survey you silently and and then use a learning algorithm to figure out whether you had some changes which would then prompt by surveillance biopsy and so forth and finally I wanted to talk about this which is a very impressive early data from several projects which uses liquid biopsies to deepen your understanding of risk so again going down the process you identify a person with a genetic risk for breast cancer or lung cancer you then enter some kind of surveillance program a maybe a scanning program might be a way to follow you metabolically in this case it this takes DNA floating DNA from your from your body and ask the question is there some is there a hint or a sign of malignancy arising in that DNA if there is can we track it down to find out where that is and if there is can we actually remove it obviously and it cannot be emphasized enough these studies have to be carried out and full because we don't know whether these cancers that we're detecting are real or not are they likely to cause disease are they not are we just detecting thin air are we detecting because we get for the sake of detecting and that's the problem overdiagnosis and overtreatment that has been raised many many times in the process and finally if you do find a cancer who is the person likely to progress this is this is an area that actually I work on most most actively in in blood cancers but again to find mechanisms to identify people who are likely to have metastatic or advanced disease versus those cancers that are likely to progress and one of the things that that has brought forward is the final frontier of of risk which is that it's not just genetics it's not just the genome but it's the cells that surround the cancer here is the first immunological therapy for lung cancer which is directed not at the lung cancer itself but at waking up the immune system that surrounds the lung cancer and delivering an immunological hit a t-cell hit to the lung cancer and that was very successful in in in smoking related lung cancer this is the pivotal trial that showed that and so as I said precision therapies used to be about genes and genomes it is increasingly about things outside the tumor including the immune system the tissue the organ the host and in the future the microbial environment that we live in really early days to detect that so um as we as we as we hurtle towards the end I was reminded of this of his famous being a New Yorker I couldn't resist a a cartoon from The New Yorker which is this cartoons called the view from 9th Avenue drawn by by Steinberg from from ninth Avenue the only thing you can really see is tenth Avenue that's Europe sorry that's Texas that's Kansas City that's Nebraska that's China Japan Russia and somewhere in the distance is in the rest of the world and if you were to look this way you'd see you know a speck of Ireland a speck of Europe and then further out into into into nowhere for for us for a long time the situation was that we were stuck with just the genome as a locus for risk and cells patients the environments host metal balls Marvin could be yeah you know could be Russia and Japan as far as we were concerned but that is changing now we are beginning to suddenly understand risk not only as genetic risk but as things that are much more proximal what is the environment with the tumor can we change that does is that telling us something about whether the patient is largely to progress or not are there people in this audience who have incipient cancers and the answer is yes who are controlling their cancer is by virtue of something that's active in their immunological millou if we could find that substance we could find that thing could we take you into a different category of someone who's like unlikely to have genetic risk but of course it would be a more physiological a micro environmental cellular factor that we would identify this is active work this is work that we are doing this my my lab is very much involved in in trying to understand understand particularly the metabolism and the patient host relationships here so to come back then to this kind of idea that ultimately we would use our understanding of history and genetics to funnel through a kind of system by which we would enter deeper and deeper understanding deeper and deeper categorization a kind of report card containing both genes and micro environmental features that would allow us to to deepen our understanding of those who are likely to have cancer I want to end therefore with a quote that I that I with an important book that I read much later and I couldn't help but remember the striking parallels to cancer and that is the idea of a total institution Erving Goffman the sociologist coined that the idea of a total institution which is a place of work of residence where a great number of similarly situated people cut off from a wider community for a considerable time together lead an enclosed formally administered and I would say formally surveyed kind of life or round of life this total institutions Goffman used it to refer to penalizing institutions like prisons like cults like concentration camps but I wonder whether we're suddenly as we widen or dilate the surveillance of cancer we are also entering cancer as a total institution I'm an oncologist let me be very clear no one I'm sure and we all would be would be thrilled we would thrill to the prospect of being able to prevent and diagnose cervical cancer before it took hold of your body we would be thrilled we would be we would be we would we would to the prospect of ovarian cancer diagnosed before it had metastasized into the momentum we would we we our dreams would come true if we could find gastric cancer before it fell I fell off the stomach and fell into the the peritoneal cavity and caused diffusely metastatic gastric cancer we cannot treat today but that moment comes with with a with a cultural interception with an understanding of the body which we are yet to be fully aware of so I returned then back to Stephen shaping's quote which is the understanding of the world of cancer as a manageable chronic condition but a risk factor world would not be and and to end just recall that that these the confiscation of these passports between the kingdom of the well in the kingdom real of the ill making just a one-way street carries consequences not only for medicine but for society and the world at large thank you thank you very much [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: SXYr6s6pMCE (https://youtu.be/SXYr6s6pMCE) ===

Now to to human DNA and our great guest this evening Sid Mukherjee. Back in 2001 when the Pulitzer committee awarded Sid the non-fiction prize, it praised The Emperor of All Maladies as quote an elegant inquiry at once clinical and personal. Well, he's done it again in his new book The Gene which tells the story of the development of genetics by weaving science and social history with some personal narrative about his own relatives. As Sid recalls in the acknowledgements, he was actually so physically and mentally exhausted after Emperor that he hadn't expected to write another book. But The Gene turns out to be a natural pairing with Emperor, a sort of prequel he calls it in that it focuses on biological normalcy before things get distorted into the malignancy of cancer. If you've ever wondered how much of our lives is determined by our genes versus how much depends on external environmental factors you need to read Sid's new book. But don't expect a simple answer because as you'll hear from Sid in a minute it's complicated. A word about Sid's own past as far back as his student days which were just a couple of decades or so ago he was already distinguishing himself. He attended Stanford, won a Rhodes, studied immunology at Oxford, then went to Harvard Medical School. Today he's an assistant professor of medicine at Columbia University and a staff cancer physician at Columbia's Medical Center. Sid's going to be in conversation here this evening with someone who has obviously made excellent use of her own genes Judy Woodruff the co-anchor and managing editor of the PBS NewsHour and one of the most accomplished journalism in television today. So please join me in welcoming both Sid Mukherjee and Judy Woodruff. Thank you Brad Graham for that very gracious. Nobody's ever introduced me before by saying good genes. What you have there. Except when they were talking about my blue jeans I guess. Thank you. If you were captivated by The Emperor of All Maladies, you will be more than captivated by The Gene Thank you for saying that. an intimate history. I feel like my mic is a little bit loud so I I was trying to suggest that. to speak softly. Um Sid, there there are so many things so many ways I'd like to begin but but I think hearing your personal story about why after you had completed the the years you had worked on the book about cancer and as we just heard from Brad, you said you were exhausted by that but then something else was going on in your mind about your own family and you write about that in a in a way that just pulls every reader in in the very beginning of the book. What happened? I mean what was going on in your life that caused you to even think about writing this? So um Interestingly I think I I I conceived of The Gene that I hadn't think of it as the as that's the name of the book but I thought about The Gene for a long time simply because I as I was growing up I had this um crisscrossing history of mental illness in my family schizophrenia and bipolar disease in particular. I had two uncles one with schizophrenia and one with bipolar disease. They actually died living having lived with that for many years. One of these uncles lived with my family while I was growing up was very much very much part of my family. And then um sometime in my childhood my cousin again from my father's side all the same side of family was also diagnosed and institutionalized. And that uh you know that elephant in the room I suppose it's the right analogy for India but um that elephant in the room could not go away would not go away. You know like most Bengali families my parents had elevated denial to a museum grade art and but they couldn't deny it anymore especially my father couldn't deny it anymore the idea that this was very much part of his life mental illness that the heredity component of mental illness. And that's when we began to talk about it. So while I was in medical school, while I was writing Emperor, while I was treating patients all of this history the story was constantly in the back. It was like a buzz that goes in the back of your head, you know am I exposed am I vulnerable who else is what does it look like what you know is it a trigger that that's needed that I that that's that's missing or present etc. So this story was my story long before cancer was my story or became my story. And in fact when I finished writing Emperor of of All Maladies I thought to myself maybe I won't write another book I'll be done and then I kept coming back to this idea, you know this this idea of and as I said it it was like it was like Star Wars it was like a prequel to the sequel. You You dedicate the book to two people. We're going to get to one of them in a minute but one of them was your own grandmother Yeah. because she was involved very much in taking care of your uncles who were as you say mentally ill. And so there's a powerful story there. There's also a story I want you to just read a little bit from the start of the book where you were with your father and you went to visit your cousin. Yeah. Um you want to Yeah, I'll just read a little bit from that just to you know this is where the this is where the story really begins. Uh So this is actually just the the very first um the very first this is a prologue of the book. Um it's titled Families and it's got a little epigram the blood of your parents is not lost in you. It's got another epigram I'm going to read the other epigram. Um In the winter of 2012 I traveled from Delhi to Calcutta to visit my cousin Moni. My father accompanied me as a guide and companion but he was a sullen and brooding presence lost in a private anguish that I could only sense dimly. My father is the youngest of five brothers and Moni is his firstborn nephew the eldest brother's son. Since 2004 when he was 40 Moni has been confined to an institution for the mentally ill with a diagnosis of schizophrenia. He's kept densely medicated a wash in a sea of assorted antipsychotics and sedatives and has an attendant watch, bathe and feed feed him throughout the day. My father has never accepted Moni's diagnosis. Over the years he has waged a lonely counter campaign against the psychiatrist charged with his nephew's care hoping to convince them that their diagnosis was somehow a colossal error or that Moni's broken psyche would somehow magically mend itself. My father has visited the institution in Calcutta twice once without warning hoping to see a transformed Moni living a secretly normal life behind the barred gates. But my father knew and I knew that there was more than just avuncular love at stake for him in these visits. Moni's not the only member of my brother father's family with mental illness. Of my father's four brothers two suffered from various unravelings of the mind. Madness it turns out has been among the Mukerjis for at least two generations and at least part of my father's reluctance to accept Moni's diagnosis lies in his grim recognition that some kernel of the illness might be buried like toxic waste in himself. So that's the first paragraph of the book. So it's in it's in your family. You saw it when you were growing up. You heard stories about it. As we said your grandmother was was very much an influential figure in your life and you saw how she was toward your uncles. And he came to live with us because he was not no longer able to take care of himself. So in this nuclear family growing up with the aspirations of a nuclear family in Delhi was also present um a remnant of of the past because both of them had moved in with us by then. And for you years later as a scientist um just the idea that in your family you were constantly right thinking about this in your family. It was one generation and the next but it wasn't everybody in the family. It wasn't every cousin Absolutely not. Yeah. was certainly not you. Um but that's that was the impetus that brought you to think we need you you wanted to spend more time looking at The Gene the genetic mystery. There's a connection to cancer the first book but you really were embarking on a completely different and ambitious story that you wanted to tell. And and you know I I published a small excerpt from this book in The New Yorker on schizophrenia with a picture of me and my father. That was really the first thing I ever I really wrote. I sat on it for many many years. I didn't publish it. I didn't didn't do anything with it. But it's the first thing that I wrote. In fact it was the first thing that I wrote once I finished Emperor. And I wrote it privately didn't publish it at all. Didn't give it out to anyone. It was just part of my healing or writing process. And what's interesting about it, I went back to it now that you know, you're you're sitting down here. I went back to it and genetics at least it doesn't really rear its full head in that in that little thing that I wrote back then. It's about family, which is why the prologue is called families. The idea of genetics the idea of genetic genes doesn't come into it. It it's a reminder that you know, we think of this word gene and it's suffused our culture and it seems to be sort of an abstract concept that lies outside ourselves in science. You know, people are talking about it in laboratories. But family genes have to do with family. It has to do with us. It has to do with how you and I are made our you know, who in this room doesn't have a relative who's affected by some illness which you can ultimately track back to some interaction between genes and and environment. So all of a sudden when I look back at that at that little thing that was more than probably six or seven pages. I said to myself, you know, this book is really this not this book. It was seven pages then this is really about families. It's about ourselves as living organisms that emanate out of these things called genes and that's sort of the conception of the book. You you wrote this and before I ask you about you know, some of the history here and some of the amazing figures you write about. You write this with a sense I mean I get a sense of real urgency from you that you felt it was it was important to get this down now because there's a lot going on in science and you and I talked about this earlier today. You had a sense that it's really important for people to begin to understand themselves not to just leave this up to the experts. Uh-huh. Um well, let me just give you a sense of what's going on in science and this may help us have this conversation as you move forward. We're trying we're learning to read and write the human genome and I'm saying this very flatly because I let me explain what what reading and writing the human genome means. Reading by reading I I I mean that you know, obviously all of you know that in around 2001 2002 we obtained the sequence of the human genome and by that I mean but let's first define what the genome is. A genome is the entire repository of genetic information that is in your cells that's in an embryo that's in human embryos and it's written in just four it's a four alphabet code ACGT. So your genome might read ACGTCCC I'm making it up. GGG I'm not having memorized it. TTTCCC and so forth. But here's what's interesting about it. This goes on in humans for 3 billion letters and if you imagine it as a written as an encyclopedia this encyclopedia would be 66 full sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica. So it would line up all the edges of this room and if you picked up 66 one of these 66 full sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica it would read ACTGCCCC it would be inscrutable to you and me. And yet here's what's amazing about it. Yet out of that seemingly inscrutable four letter code is built you and me and everyone else in that room. It's an astonishing fact that that code becomes you becomes me small variations in that code are responsible in some part the difference between you and me. So going back now to understand what we what the technologies allow us to do. Number one is that we're beginning to read that code and beginning to and I should emphasize very clearly that we're beginning to be able to predict what might be what or what might happen in your future for some parts of that genome. Just to give you one example if you have the BRCA1 gene mutation um it's not a 100% chance that you're going to have breast cancer but your risk of breast cancer may be 10 times higher than the and and than women who don't have that particular mutation. If you have the cystic fibrosis gene mutation in both your both your both parental and and from both your father and mother the chances are nearly 100% that you will have that disease in your future. I could tell you that when you were an embryo. If you had the Tay-Sachs disease mutation I could tell you from your embryo from your embryonic cell I could tell you chances that you will have that disease is 100% etc. etc. etc. So that's reading the genome and now we're getting to more complicated things. I could tell you more potentially more complicated things about illness and people have started to explore far from the area but people have started to explore not just illness but I could tell you complicated things about potentially our identity. Um that's already entering territory that we should have some moral concerns about. That's one. And writing the genome means that not only can I do that in just just reading it I can actually go now and make directional changes intentional changes in the human genome using a whole new set of technologies astonishing technologies that we've hijacked from bacteria and learned to use as humans. And these technologies allow us to go into that 66 volume encyclopedia again remember 66 volumes pick out one volume erase one word in that encyclopedia put it back in leaving we think we're not sure about yet leaving all the other 66 volumes untouched. So it seems to me that once we've acquired these technologies we need to talk about them. We need to talk about them. You need to learn about them. I need to learn about them. We cannot let this happen in the laboratory. Last week there was a closed door meeting at at Harvard where they proposed synthesizing the entire human genome by stitching together single single single ACTGs basically like a little bead on a string. In other words, you could synthesize technologies would soon become available that you could take the entire human genome and make it from scratch. Not a science fiction fantasy. We're not there yet but all the technologies that allow us to get there are being assembled and this is the time to think about things. This is the time to for me to think about mental illness for you to think about whatever other illnesses and mechanisms of variation and and identity that you may may be interested in. This is the time to think about it. This is the time to to converse about it and if you don't we will give this unbelievably important piece of our history and our future to people that we might not want to give it to. And you in the book among other things you write about period not so long ago when the study of genetics was heading off in a really terrible direction and we know it led to some pretty horrible things on this planet but I want to touch I want you to go back though to on a little bit of the history here because you so much of what you just described said it happened in the last 10 or 15 years or even last maybe last month. But you know, you also you know, it's humbling to know that Aristotle was thinking about this and that the information kind of sat there and then it was another couple of thousand years before almost a thousand years before Charles Darwin started doing his work and then after that some other really interesting characters and you they're almost these signposts along the way of people who worked on genetics or worked on what they may not have even known was genetics but it all came together later to be critical. Talk a little bit about some of that early work that was done. People know Charles Darwin. Right. Uh but but Well, let's start with I mean you know, what's interesting about it and certainly we'll touch on Aristotle in a second. What's interesting about it is that of course this is a perennial question. I mean since the dawn of human history you can imagine one of the first questions we asked ourselves is why do we look like our parents or why do we why we not look like our parents? These two simultaneous contradictions the yin and yang the two strands as it were of these questions have been part of our DNA cultural DNA forever. Who hasn't asked that question? When when illness strikes a family we've asked ourselves why did it not strike my father or my mother? Why is it mine? And so forth. I mean variations when two identical twins are born we say well why do they look like the same and so forth. So Aristotle had a theory about this. Aristotle really began to think about this very seriously. And it's an astonishing fact that you know, Aristotle was a was an okay philosopher but he was a very good biologist. Um uh Which I venture to say most people didn't realize. Yes. You know, actually what's interesting about Aristotle at least from reading him from my very particular tinted lenses I see him as a biologist completely. I see him as a philosopher only secondarily. His his philosophy really emanated out of his desire to taxonomize to divide the world up in different organic forms. You know, what was form look like what was So Aristotle realized or he made the argument that what was really moving what was really being transmitted across generations was message or some kind of message. And he he has a lovely phrase. He said it's a little bit like a carpenter shaping a a piece of wood. The carpenter when the carpenter shapes a piece of wood he was talking about how organisms are formed how human being is formed. He said when a carpenter shapes a piece of wood, he doesn't shape it by by in a material way. What he does is he transmits a an information as it were through his handywork or her handywork into that piece of wood. And that's what happens. He's transmitting information, a message into that piece of wood and that's what makes that wood piece of wood acquire whatever form. This was back in, you know, I don't know when I don't remember exactly when I say I you know I exactly when that point of time when he writes this, but this was back in the day when people were debating about, you know, how gods gave us forms and so forth. So, that's Aristotle and then there's a long silence really after that. For a while people thought, I'll give you one more highlight for me and then we'll come to more modern characters. For a while people thought that um this was the greatest one of them all. For a while people thought that in fact, this was so complicated. I mean they they said why how on earth can a fully formed human being, an embryo, develop out of the you know the when when when a when a when a woman conceives, how can that possibly happen? And they made the argument there was an argument made in the 1600s that in fact a tiny miniature human being was sitting inside sperm. Right. Right? Wrapped up like this and in fact they drew pictures of it too. And and if you thought about it carefully, then it had to be the case that since that animal since that homunculus as it was called would also generate its own children, a mini homunculus had to be sitting inside that homunculus. Right? And so forth. And so on. Infinitely. Infinitely. Infinitely miniaturized homunculi, which was a lovely idea of course. A little crazy if you think about it, like Russian dolls stretching out towards towards towards the future. Um but this was the most actually this was one of the most popular ideas about what how we transmitted likeness, which was of course the center of of of of the gene. So so but but the information but what he figured out or what he thought about and shared really kind of sat there as we said for a couple of thousand years. Along comes Charles Darwin who did some important work Yeah. uh in all this. But then there were some others who came along who really were not appreciated at the time. One of them was a monk Yes. who you spends I think some really interesting pages Yes. on. Um it's it's it's a it's a fascinating story and um so and that's Gregor Mendel. Um Gregor Mendel really launches the book and the modern history of of genes. And because Mendel realizes Mendel performed Mendel's a monk actually it's very interesting that both Darwin and Mendel are monks. It's instructive about our times that in in there was a time that people with spiritual lives found no contradiction between exploring the universe in its material form as well as having spiritual lives. Someone should read Darwin and Mendel or force people to read Darwin and Mendel. Um I suppose they've they've uh you know the the the the the capacity and the compassion that they brought to that and the passion that they brought to that to their individual um scientific explorations was incredible. But Mendel, fascinating character, he was a monk um and he began to do extremely simplified experiments. That was his trick. He was a great gardener. And his trick his his main um insight was to simplify this this morass of ideas around genetics, you know, homunculus is sitting inside homunculus. And he said I'm going to forget all about that in a second and all I'm going to do is I'm going to study with almost monastic concentration. I'm going to study what happens to one or two, he actually seven, seven individual features across multiple generations of peas. Right? Here were people talking about, you know, hugely complex experiments about human embryology and how we were born. There was Mendel sitting in a small monastery at the edge of the city of Brno where he said all I'm going to do is I'm going to study seven characters. I'm going to map them as they move. He didn't coin the word gene. He had no idea what these things were. And at the end of it, just by mathematical reasoning, he realized that there has got to be something that that units of information, again going back to Aristotle, units of information must be passing between the parent and the offspring. And he was trying to understand if he in fact he wanted to work with mice but his uh superiors wouldn't let him. That's right because because because mice was a little bit too risky. I mean peas they're far away enough from us but mice is a little risky. I have a great little story but so I spent some time in Mendel's monastery. It's it's a beautiful place. Um and one quick story and we'll move on but um I went to Mendel's monastery in Brno and I had traveled you know it's it's it's a it you can get to it easily from Vienna but it's a little bit of a of a schlepp. So I traveled over to um to Mendel's monastery and I arrived there and I uh there was a woman at the front desk and and I said can I I've come all this way I want to go and see this this the birthplace of biology, right? The the place it was like a pilgrimage for me. And she said I'm sorry you have to apply in triplicate. Um the monastery's closed. So I said this is the Czech Republic. So I said so I I pleaded. I said I beg you. I said I've come from all this way. It's all I want to do is I want to be inside. I want to see the library. And she said no no no you have to send an application and I said well who do I apply to? And completely without any irony she said to me. And so I'm from India and I said two can play at this game. So I said I hereby apply to you. With a little bow I said I hereby apply to you. And so she was defeated and she let me She let me in. So that was my trip to Mendel's monastery. I spent you know I spent about four five days not in the you can't stay there but I spent four five days going back and forth being in the library looking at that first garden where he planted those peas that generated this thing which is now taken over the world. And his the work that he did wasn't appreciated for a long time. In fact it sat obscure and he was scorned. Um but at some point somebody there were a number of other important figures. Remind us who came up with the term genetics? So it was Somebody gets credit for that. That's right. It was much later again remember Mendel doesn't even have that word in his vocabulary. He knows that he's stumbled on something interesting but what's what's amazing about Mendel is that once he's stumbled he's like a he's like an he he he is he Go ahead. No go ahead. Because he fired up once he had done this work was so he sent his copies of his report. He condensed it what to 40 some pages. Sent it out to all these scholarly centers but it was just dismissed. Basically no one basically said, you know, basically everyone said what is this crazy monk writing about and why Exactly. why should we be reading this stuff? And they went on describing botany and physiology and figuring out you know trying to figure out how embryos were formed in their very complicated ways homunculuses falling into homunculuses and so forth. God knows but anyway um but then in the 1900s Mendel gets rediscovered. Um and soon after in 1909 um we find the word gene because botanists and biologists began to begin to say to themselves we've got to have a word for this. I mean there is this abstract. We don't know what it is. We don't know what carries it. Is it is it a molecule? What what is it a structure in a cell? But something carries this information. We know it's important and and so we've got to have a word for it. Um William Bateson, uh one of Mendel's great uh defenders, I talk about him. He's a great there's a great picture of him in the book. Uh coins the word genetics from genus, generation, genius, all of these words coming together um in that in that word. And so he coins the word gene or genetics and then um his colleague uh Johannsen says, you know, that's the discipline. Genetics is the discipline. It has to we have to name that thing. Um and so they name it the gene. Gene. And and the the work so it fits and starts. I mean there's progress and then there's a setback and more progress and and you do an amazing a wonderful job of of bringing to life these people who uh really probably led pretty ex un extraordinary lives. They were stuck in a lab or in an office somewhere writing and and uh and working. But and then you you fast forward to the 1950s to Watson and Crick. But before you get to that point, you know, things really go badly uh off track. Mhm. Why did that happen? How did that happen? important to remember that this So so and it's important to remember that off track because while the gene is being explored scientifically, the study of heredity of course has a long history and the desire to manipulate heredity is not you can they were really parallel studies. Um and it was in England that coincidentally in fact Darwin's cousin uh Francis Galton uh invented the term eugenics. Um Galton didn't know very much about genes actually. He had a terrible theory of genetics themselves. He made a mistake. Uh it was kind of a homunculus funnily enough. Uh the mathematical homunculus I talk about it in the book but we'll we'll set that aside for a second but Galton's a fascinating character uh fascinating character. He was a great mathematician, a great statistician. But he also lived in Darwin's shadow all his life. Um I call Galton you know he's slung between Darwin and Mendel. I mean can you imagine these two giants and you're supposed to Galton was supposed to be an epic giant himself. He was a child prodigy and tried of course had many important contributions to to statistics and mathematics. But Galton coins this term eugenics because he thinks that regardless of what the gene is, whether there's a gene or no gene, we can use human heredity by manipulating heredity, we can make better human beings. And Galton's proposal, he coined the word eugenics, good genes, eugenics, in order to try to make better human beings. He thought that if you breed selectively breed the best human beings, we'll get a superior and emancipate ourselves. And here's what's astonishing, which I discovered, is that this was considered an incredibly progressive idea. Like taking evening walks or you know, getting on getting constitutional baths in spas and so forth. This was considered a very healthy idea for humankind. And many progressives, some exceptions and some notable exceptions, actually many progressives said this is a great idea. We should do more of this. And so that was Galton and it took off in England and stayed in England. And that idea then metastasizes and reaches the shores of this country. Uh where it mingles with a kind of Yankee practicality and becomes it it morphs into not just let's breed the best, let's sterilize those who are carry bad genes. Which ultimately sort of escalates slowly and leads to a case that many people know, Carrie Buck's case. Carrie Buck was a woman who was accused of having genetic imbecility and sterilized on that pretext. And famously the Oliver Wendell Holmes, the so-called great judicial moderate, the case climbed to his court and he said, "Three generations of imbeciles is enough." Um and Carrie Buck was moved to a uh uh state uh colony it was called then and she was forcibly uh narcotized, taken to an operating theater and sterilized on that pretext. And there was no real evidence that she had any mental mental illness at all. Books and books have been written about it and there is basically no evidence that she she was a she was if if anything she was a you know, she was a she was she was a bit of a rebel. That was the worst of her sins. And you you were saying to me earlier today that you felt it was so important and you she's one of the two people you dedicate the book to. It's so important to remind everybody that this is happening that this happened. It's not just Nazi Germany Yes. Where things Well, so let's just finish up that story. Thanks for catching me. The it metastasizes again and then moves from selective breeding to selective sterilization to selective extermination. And that that is the that's the that's the final incarnation. That's the final and the macabre incarnation that eugenics takes, which we now remember it by. We remember Nazi eugenics. Um you know, beginning with people who had again mental illness, moving on to things like depression and ultimately moving on to the racial and ethnic and human cleansing that the Nazis brought to their full macabre form. And I put that right in the middle of the book. In fact, I wanted to start the book with with that idea. It just that but then I realized that that the I wanted to start the book actually with the with with with the with the with the kind of the German episode. But I realized that it's much much more chilling to watch it happen in in your own in front of your own eyes that this that the road to that menace the road to that ghastliness was paved in progressive by progressive feet. By a desire to indeed a desire to emancipate, the desire for perfectibility, the desire to make ourselves better ends up in less than 30 years in the extermination of someone who has a mild form of mental illness. I think we all want to believe that that could never happen again, but as you said a moment ago, because of um the incredible advances that have just been met in made in such a short time that people really still don't understand. What do you think the possibility is that that decisions could get made right now or in the near future that not not a repetition of some of the the worst of what you describe, but we could head off in a direction that it might be very hard to turn around and and correct. of examples and and they're relevant today. I'll give you one local so one example from the United States and one example from internationally. I think I think that I personally think being having read this story, I think it's very unlikely that we will have a state-mandated form of eugenics in the United States in the future. I don't think that's likely. I think what's interesting and what's much more what's much what's more much more difficult to contend with is that we're entering an era of personalized eugenics in which we can can sequence this was going to be this is this technology is available today. Very soon you should be able to sequence and people have done this already in other countries every single gene of your unborn child. Um and the question you need to ask yourself is what do we do with this information? Well, you won't know what to do with this information unless you know what genes are and how they interact with what they produce. So that's that's of course one arena that is important. But meanwhile, let's not forget that the largest numerically the largest eugenics project is already going on in India and China. Um in some parts of India, there are 700 women to 1,000 men. In human history, there has never been this skew of gender ratios. That is a eugenics project. Let's not make any bones about it. That is a dysgenics project fostered by science beginning with ultrasound diagnosis ending up with you know, amniocentesis and gender diagnosis through chromosomal analysis etc. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, you welcome to a dysgenic world. It's already we are already part of it. And it has destabilized societies there. It has destabilized the way we think about it. So it's not someone else's it's not some other world's problem. This is our world's problem. And the faster we accept it and the more we understand it, the more armed we will be enabled to mitigate against its effects internationally. It it's a it's clearly a case of the science being ahead of where uh governments, policy makers are uh are prepared uh to make decisions. Um but how much of that is is a practical uh effect right here in the United States right now. I mean, you talked a minute you talked a minute ago said about the work that's being done to edit genes and what you just said about creating a gen a person synthetically. Creating a genome the question is how to do it. Um how you know, how how much do scientists talk about that? I mean, you're a scientist yourself. How much do scientists sit around and worry about that? Think about it. Uh and how much do they talk to policy makers? Well, they think a lot. They worry a lot about it. The policy makers don't have the language to understand what the implications are often. Um in fact, the scientists don't have scientists don't have the language at all. There's an important meeting which I describe in the book that happens in Asilomar, of the famous Asilomar conference, when actually the my my mentor for many years, Paul Berg, I worked in with Paul for many many years. We're still very close friends. Um Paul and several others, two or three other scientists, discovered the technology to cut and paste genes together. This in the 1970s. He won a Nobel Prize for this. Um and essentially it's relatively simple technology. It is you take one piece of DNA um and you cut it up using tiny molecular scissors that are made by bacteria to kill each other. And you stitch them together with another enzyme, another factor, which is used normally when your when your DNA strands break because of x-rays, say, something needs to stitch them back together to maintain their integrity. If you just combine these two little pieces, these two pieces, you can suddenly start taking a gene from a frog and stitching it together with a gene from a virus. You can take you can take two genes of any sort. And this is of course incredibly important technology. Cancer drugs are made this way. Uh you take and because the genetic code is uniform and universal, you can take a gene from a blue whale and put it into a monkey or monkey cells and the monkey cells will recognize it for all intents and purposes as if it was a monkey gene and make it as if it was a monkey gene. That's because we are all evolved from the same original organisms and we share the same genetic code. So when this technology was first created scientists got together for and and and and created an open meeting um at Asilomar. Journalists came. Bioethicists came. Policy makers came. They all spent months reading. There was no document about the gene, but they all spent months thinking about you know, they collecting all information that they could, learning the vocabulary. And and then they had a meeting in which they said, "We're going to put a voluntary moratorium for 1 year." It lasted a bit longer. For 1 year before we can figure out what the next steps are because this technology may unleash biological catastrophe. Um so it is possible, I think, at least within the United States to put moratoria on things before we figure out what to do with them. And in fact, about 2 weeks ago about 2 months ago there was a large conference uh which they suggested that there should be a moratorium on editing human genes in particular kinds of cells. Certainly not every cell, but embryonic stem cells of certain kinds, um although that's unlikely to happen, but but certainly human human human embryos. Uh meanwhile, just to finish up, meanwhile there's an experiment in China that was published where they went ahead and tried to make a um gene define genetic gene editing in a human embryo. And they were non-viable embryos, but they tried 76 embryos, I think, at a try to make a defined genetic change. And what what happened? What was the result? Well, the results we don't know fully the results because it's you know, they were it was it was published a little piecemeal, and again, they were non-viable embryos, so um but the quick answer is that in principle, they could make genetic changes in human embryos. And what does that mean? I mean, what That means that in principle, you could uh if you tweak the technology, if you do quite a lot of tweaking, but if you tweak the technology, you could say to yourself that I'm interested in and I talk about how you might tweak that in in the real world. The Chinese experiment is actually a not a great way to do that experiment. But if you tweak the technology, you could say, "I'm going to I'm going to try to erase the cystic fibrosis mutation from my genetic heritage. I'm going to try to erase the or change a mutation or a variation that causes Alzheimer's disease from my heritage. Um And in the bizarre-est scenario, you could say, "I want to add information back to the human genome." Um which you could do. You could add information to the human genome. We want to make people taller or something. Again, again to remind us, so and I talk about this, that's very important to realize, tallness or height is certainly genetic, but at least five or seven genes govern that. Could you change five or seven genes? Maybe you can. Maybe you could change five At least now we're changing one. But but but also, you as I said, you can add information back to the human genome. That That is a That's a surprising thing. We shouldn't we should take that very very very seriously. All right, we're going to be taking questions from all of you in just a couple of minutes, but before we do, I want to I mean, just how do we make sure So be thinking about your questions. But how do we make sure that this kind of work goes in the right direction and not someplace that we don't even want to think about. Right. Well, I think there has to be an international consensus. A national consensus won't help because the next thing you know, there's going to be an arms race. China, Korea, India will make start making genetic interventions in and actually outline one possibility, one kind of thought experiment. You know, there's a famous thought experiment that happened when the when when when the atom was being split. You know, long before the atomic bomb was made, there's a famous letter that Szilard and Einstein wrote saying, you know, there's no such thing as the atomic bomb, but here's a thought experiment. Just think us walk just in your brain, walk through this process, and you land up with the unleashing of immense power in a in a concentrated manner. Um and Einstein even writes to Szilard and say say writes to the president and says, "This could create a weapon of great destruction." Um nothing's been made yet. It's just that you can walk the physical the mental steps to it. So, I think we need to walk those mental steps first and figure out what the realm of possibilities is, and we need to walk those mental steps internationally so that we can figure out again what the realm of controls is. And I actually have I I I suggest a a kind of framework um by which we can we hopefully with that that we can stick to before we enter an era that we don't want to enter. So, we're going to take questions, and I So, I guess there are a couple of microphones. Before they come to the mic, um said I you know, when I when I think about what you do, and I think about the book you wrote on cancer and the work you did with public television with WETA, and I should say Sharon Rockefeller here, who's the is here, who's the president of WETA, who worked with you on the and Ken Burns film around uh and Ken Burns uh around uh The Emperor of All Maladies. Um and I and I think how do you even have time to sleep because you are a scientist, you're an oncologist, you write books, you're a husband and a father, and you have a life. How do you do it all? Well, you know, this book came out of such urgency that it had to be written. Um I sort of prioritized this book over everything else. It took five and a half years. So, it you know, it seems as if it it came up one morning, but it it took five and a half years. It took a lot of time, and I spent a lot of time on it, and a lot of it was going back to these stories. I talked to myself, "If I can just knit together the stories one after another, I would achieve I would achieve the book." Well, it's uh it's kind of extraordinary that he can get it all done. All right, let's start over here, and I can't see very well, but step up to the mic and ask your question. Hi. Uh my name is Andy, and I'll be starting school in the fall to study the intersections of epigenetics and anthropology. Uh-huh. And um just had a question for you regarding um kind of along the lines of this discussion of exploring the new frontiers of science. Uh-huh. Um um drawing upon some of the work that you've done on epigene- or you've written about in epigenetics. Um I think we're starting to find a lot uh more information and evidence about the intergenerational and transgenerational um like transmissions and inheritance of epigenetic information, and I was wondering, in the spirit of this conversation about understanding the ethical and social um considerations of new scientific findings, um what those would be for um intergenerational and transgenerational Yeah, so let me rephrase the question. It is a very important question. The question is um to what extent We We know that genes transmit information across generations. But lately, there's been a lot of interest in finding out whether your things that happen to you in the environment um can also be transmitted across generations. The evidence for that, I think, is very very minimal uh right now. It's a totally unexplored frontier. Um the famous experiment, of course, was Weismann's experiment in which he dismembered the gruesome experiment, but he dismembered the tail of one generation of mice, and he waited for the next mouse to be born, and it grew perfectly intact tail, and he dismembered that, and the next generation was born with a tail. And so, he kept doing this for multiple generations, and not even 1 cm of tail was lost. So, we know that, you know, as significant a trauma, as it were, as having a part of your body cut off in the case of of that of that poor mouse, does not register across multiple generations. It does not get transmitted. And yet, we also there are some inklings that, for instance, starvation, the starvation response, creates changes that are transmitted across multiple generations in in ways that we still don't still don't understand. It's an entirely new frontier, and of course, it challenges the classical model of how genes transmit information, and we're still trying to figure out what what you know, what what is it? What is What is really What is the information that's being transmitted? What's amazing about it, and I think I got I'll I'll just finish with this idea. What's amazing about it is that genes actually protect us from that. Genes were almost designed to wash away the sins of our ourselves and our fathers. We reproduce, and all of a sudden, all the scars and things that we have in our body are washed away, and a baby is formed anew. It's a very beautiful thing that that It's a very beautiful solution to regeneration. But there is evidence now from, again, very detailed studies on starvation and and other um in simple organisms that seem to have some effect across generations. We'll have to find out more about it. We're going to have to find a somewhat more cheerful aspect of genetics. Yes, sir. Hi. Thank you. My name is Scott. And uh I you know, for years, we've had this dichotomy between genetics and the environment. What causes social behaviors even, sociobiology. Uh and I and I've always thought of this as a false dichotomy in the sense that everything is genetic, everything also is influenced by the environment. And really, the question is not whether it's something is genetic or environmentally caused, it's whether or not how malleable it is. Can it be changed? You know, having poor eyesight is genetic, and yet we can do LASIK surgery, we can wear glasses, and it doesn't affect our behavior. It doesn't affect our our genetic fitness, whatever. So, really, it's a it's a false question, and I was hoping you would I I actually I think it's not it's not just a false question. I think it's a question that's led us in the wrong led us in the wrong direction. Let me tell you what I think about it, and I write about this in the book extensively. What My thought is that when someone asks the question, "Is it nature or nurture? Is it genes or environment?" the first question we should be asking back is "What are we talking about? What what aspect of human behavior or biology are we talking about?" I'll give you some concrete examples. Gender anatomy, the anatomy of gender, is strikingly genetic. Um there's one gene that governs for the most part, gender anatomy. If you have it on, it happens to be on the Y chromosome, unsurprisingly. If you have that gene, you will have one particular anatomy of gender and all the physiology that goes along with it. If you don't have that gene, you will have a different anatomy of gender and all the physiology that goes along with it. How do we know this? Because if you have um uh if you have some um some women in inherit the XY, so they are chromosomally male, except that one gene is mutated. And if you mutate that one gene, these women are self-described as women. They have most of their gender anatomy intact. They They're often diagnosed as a syndrome called Swyer syndrome, and they're diagnosed because they are they experience infertility. So, gender anatomy strikingly governed by genes. Gender identity, on the other hand, is a complex mixture, we know that. So, the idea and and I talk about these distinctions in the book. So, the idea that that now we've made a a kind of armistice between genes and environment is actually a fool's armistice. There is no armistice. It depends on what level or what what what level of hierarchy we're examining. It depends on the question you're examining. And it's it's amazing to me that in this culture in 2016, the human mind is not capacious enough to understand this simple idea, that some things can be strikingly dominated by genes, some things can be strikingly dominated by environments, and some things live in the middle. It depends on what we're asking about. So, thank you for saying thank saying that. Thank you. Yes. Would you please elaborate on the recent developments in treating cancer with gene modification, particularly breast cancer? Yeah, so um the the Right now, we're all of these technologies, and this goes back to the to the point that we're trying to make. All these technologies can have very powerful effects uh and a lot of promise. So, one of the things that uh the brain cancer one is the one that comes very quickly to mind. There's a couple of very recent, important, and potentially striking trials of gene therapy in brain cancer using various genetic therapies um uh to treat brain cancers. Um certainly in Now, let me let me give you uh you know, the idea of genes being used in breast cancer has a rich history starting with diagnosis. BRCA1 and BRCA2 were identified uh genetically um years ago and have really changed the lives of um women who have happen to have that mutation. Herceptin, that antibody, guess how we make that antibody. The only way to make Herceptin as an antibody is to take a human gene for an antibody and put it in a in a cell using that same technique that I all talked about, Paul Berg's and others' technique. And that's the only way you can make Herceptin. So, when you talk about genes in cancer, they run the gamut from diagnosis to genetic therapies to the creation of new drugs. We would not be here in cancer today were it not for genetics and genetic engineering in particular. Thank you. How much promise do you feel there is in that area? Um Again, it depends on which which arena. I mean, certainly with you know, antibody therapies for cancer are one of the most striking therapies these days. So, we are doing more and more. We're using them more and more. Again, would not be possible without genetic engineering. Genetics was used to figure out what an antibody was in the first place. You wouldn't know what an antibody was, how your immune system worked if it wasn't for genetics. So, um genes underlie all of these all of these um really miraculous advances. Yes. Let me Sorry, you see you give another the most obvious example. You know, remember this uh distinction in breast cancer between ER and PR. You know, we talk about ERPR. Guess what those are? Genes. Estrogen receptor's a gene. Progesterone receptor's a gene. If it it's a marker for um for certain kinds of cancer. And if you would didn't know that, we wouldn't know how to treat cancer breast cancer with tamoxifen. And the doctors physicians have had to learn this very quickly. Absolutely. Had to learn all that genetics very very quickly. Yes. Thank you. What do you make of or how close do you think we are to potentially getting a cure for cancer? And do you think efforts like President's Cancer Moonshot and others like Sean Parker and other Silicon Valley folks are trying to kind of get toward a cure? How close do you think we we might be? So, cure is a complicated word in cancer um because it depends on the kinds of cancer that we're talking about. Um it has a very rich history detailed in another book. Uh uh that um If if you ask me about what I think about these moonshot efforts, I think they're helpful in some ways and they can be helpful in others. I think they're helpful because they refocus our attention at a time when our attention span seems to have degenerated and we're talking about what I think are rather irrelevant issues when we when when they're very clearly focused issues that we should be talking about, how to emancipate our health problems, um how to help ourselves, how to help the economy, and so forth. And so, rather than focusing on things that are not constructive, I think they allow us to rebuild faith in in in systems uh whether they be federally funded, whether they be philanthropically funded. They rebuild faith in systems that can provide medical uh transformations. So, I think that's very helpful. The The flip side, of course, is that that creates a certain cycle of hope and hype, and people say they they've not met their, you know, technologies are not ready yet. They haven't met their goals. Um I think the I think the I think the moonshot will be partially successful cuz it'll allow us to clear out some cobwebs that have gotten in the way of of um advanced medical advances around cancer. So, I think there will be a backlash as well. You know, 10 years from now we'll be sitting in this room and saying how dare we have said you know, that there should be a moonshot for cancer. I think cancers will advance significantly in the next decade. I'm I'm confident of that. Thank you. Okay. Yes. We have time for two more questions. Okay, thanks. Hi. Uh we've been talking mostly about like human genetics, but when it comes to policy and science being sort of ahead of of policy, my first thought goes to GMOs. Yeah. And my understanding is that there's a huge gap between what these what is the scientific consensus consensus consensus and what the public perception is. Yes. So, I was just curious in your work Yeah, you know, to be honest, I actually did not cover GMOs in this book because I really think it deserves a full second book. Uh I I I I'm not going to write it. Um uh the uh the the the the issue of of genetically modified organism. What I do though is I talk about the technologies to create transgenic organisms um extensively in the book, uh but I don't go into the pros and cons and the plusses and minuses of genetically modified organisms. But in brief, um what I would the one thing I would say is that our sophistication in being able to create these organisms is increasing daily. Um and that obviously raises the spectrum of unintended consequences um in the in the greater biosphere. Um I'm actually less concerned about the unintended consequences on human health locally. I'm more concerned Personally, I'm more concerned about the greater unintended consequences in the biosphere at large, which is a much much larger conversation um which we can have another time. But they important topic. Thank you. Okay. We won't count that as a question. We'll count that as a as a a lead into another conversation. So, we'll take two more questions. is almost identical to his. Almost identical. Okay. ask your opinion. Yeah. But but it's probably just answered. Okay, sounds good. Thank you. know your opinion of Yeah, thanks. All right. Okay, hi. Um my name's Allison Barrell. I'm a graduate student finishing up at the National Institutes of Health, and um recently I've gotten uh interested in science policy. And one of the questions that you had asked was um how much do the scientists who do the science talk to the policy makers. Um and you had responded something like, well, the scientists talk science and the policy makers talk government, and they don't really communicate very well. But you do a great job, and lots of other science writers do a great job of translating that that really difficult science talk into understandable um media. And so, I was just wondering if you ever get the opportunity to to talk to policy makers um and participate in that. Personally, I I do a lot. I'm in Washington a lot. Um I've been to Congress several times um particularly on cancer. In fact, um we screened part of uh part of Ken Burns' film um in Congress. Um so, uh I I do. I think the problem is not the problem is not that there isn't meeting spaces or meeting opportunities. The problem is that the vocabulary is different. And once the vocabulary becomes common, once we talk about the same things, it actually becomes much much more easy, of course, to have the conversation. So, part of the effort I think here is to is to at least arm ourselves with the vocabulary so that when you open the newspaper and someone says, you know, someone's trying to synthesize the human genome, at least we understand what that means. What does the human genome mean? What does it mean to synthesize the human genome? What are its implications down the road? And then we can have a real conversation. So, thank you for reminding us that that's the kind of effort that's um that's ultimately helpful. We need to have the vocabulary, as it were. All right, thank you. Okay, last question. Hello. Um my name is Marcel. Originally, I'm from the Czech Republic. So, I understand what it's like. Originally, I'm from India, so I understand what Let's have a drink. So, my very simple question. Uh your opinion, do you think that in the future we'll be able to find smaller particles of genes and for example, identify genes that define happiness and since we are in the in the synagogue, genes of spirituality. These are very interesting and complicated questions and and and 10 years 15 years ago someone would say those are crazy questions. But 15 years later they're not so crazy questions. I actually talk about this in the book a lot. Are there genes for temperament? Are there genes for personality, etc. Almost always these things are very higher order principles as it were. They lie in intersections between genes and environments. But do I feel that some of these evanescent qualities have some components of genes at their core? The answer would be yes. And how do we know that that the answer is yes? Cuz very very detailed studies on identical twins separated at birth. Separate There's a famous study which I talk about a lot. In fact, I interviewed the one of the one of the authors of that study for this book. These identical twins separated at birth brought up in very different circumstances share surprising kinds of behavior. They share personality traits that you wouldn't imagine would happen by random chance. They share preferences, anxieties. Now what does that mean? That means that there must be things in the genome that predispose us to certain kinds of behaviors, temperaments, anxieties, etc. What's also interesting is that if you look at not identical twins but siblings that number falls dramatically. What does that mean? That means that if you scatter genes around you'll lose that effect. It's a very artificial effect. So it is simultaneously true that there elements in the genome that may govern more complex evanescent traits of human personality and that we it's unlikely that we'll be able to manipulate them very easily because there multiple genes that are that are that are governing this. I make the distinction in the book between the idea that these are inheritable but they're not heritable. It's a great question. Thank you very much. I think Apologies for the Yeah, we're going to have to We're going to have to stop. I just want to say again said it's a it's a it's a fascinating book. Uh Don't be intimidated by the fact that it's about science because you write it you write it's it's about people, it's about family, it's about it's an it's just done in a in a remarkably approachable way and it's a wonderful read and a great book. Thank you so much. So it's been my pleasure. Thank you. Thank you so much to Siddhartha Mukherjee and thank you to Judy Woodruff for such a wonderful conversation. Thanks to all of you for being wonderful audience.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: TBJY7ZctojM (https://youtu.be/TBJY7ZctojM) ===

my guest today is dr. siddharth mukherjee Pulitzer prize-winning author well-known oncologist and one of the foremost public intellectuals and thinkers of our time he is in India to address the Deepika Padukone in LED live laugh love foundation that shines a light on mental health mental health is something that's close to sidharth's own family history and something he has spoken and written about with extreme intimacy and Candace said Hart welcome to the show cancer and mental health have in a sense been the twin obsessions or of your writings of much of your work of much of your medicine research as well I want to start by asking you whether you think that writing your two books the emperor of maladies and the book you wrote on the gene and intimate history have made it easier have changed responses to mental health in a country like India where this conversation remains extremely stigmatized even now well I think the the books allowed me to understand I'm an oncologist I I'm not a mental health professional but certainly there's been many issues of mental health in my family and in my family's history which I've written about I think that conversation around mental health issues is increasing part of my sort of understanding of all of this grew out of how cancer awareness grew and became a big movement a campaign in the history of the United States and other places mental health is going through some of this process itself the the stigmatization the first time that people are talking more openly about it you know 50 years ago people wouldn't talk openly open you got cancer so there are some very broad parallels between what is going on socially and politically in cancer and also socially agree what's going on in the world of mental health I do want to first talk a little bit about the mental health issues because you're right you're an oncologist but some of your most intimate accounts have been about your family's struggle with mental health your your uncle's your cousins and at one point you're sort of mortal fears that this was genetic it was predetermined to something that would in a sense reside in you and passed on to your church can you speak a little bit about your struggle and why you then decided to write such a personal account in a public to win well one of the things that's becoming very clear about some forms of mental illness such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder both of which run in my family one thing that's becoming very clear is that these are both genetic and environmental diseases by genetic I mean we now have begun to understand very clearly that there are multiple variations of genes that contribute you can inherit these from a pairs no one there's no one gene or one gene for either schizophrenia or bipolar disorder but I would say that if you inherit a bunch of if a combination of often genetic variations from your parents your you have a heightened risk but even that doesn't complete the risk you have to have environmental factors we now know that even make the disease fully manifested itself and themselves so I knew from from from I knew that I carried risk because this was in my family runs through families and I wanted to not experienced it so I wanted to write about it almost as a mechanism of understanding myself you know how it had it back in my own life and really explaining to others how deeply and how consequentially genetic variation can have a very important role in all of our lives it's not some kind of abstract thing that happens to people other people you know virtually every family has a history of some illness and that illness again may have some genetic and environmental components so I wanted to bring all of this out and also you know talk be able to talk about this without shame or stigma or without you know just say that this is part of your story part of my story that's why the book is called the gene and intimate history you know you could write a history of genetics which without telling that historic story but you know the funny thing about writing such a history is to generate which you don't tell your own story it's like saying you know on one hand you're saying this is about you jeans are about you jeans were hard part of part of what makes you and yet you know the question then arises well where are you how are you how are you made in the context of your own personal jeans so as a writer but also as a doctor I wanted to sort of bring these two pieces together now there are ethical questions thrown out by any debate around the kind of pre determinism that your that your genes may leave you with and I you know I have met medical practitioners even in India that are now talking about how diabetes can be reversed that it is all in your genes you know it may be a little bit in your diet in your lifestyle but it is also in your genes and once this starts getting applied to more and more sort of ailments and and it becomes part of the sort of diagnostic process are you concerned about a kind of new-age eugenics are you concerned about a kind of new-age racism that this kind of this kind of science if misused good result well so the you know this science is always on the has the danger of being used and misused we've seen many historical examples when again we've seen many historical examples of the use of science to save lives to emancipate humans you know we are living many of us have finally been able to live longer infant mortality has decreased dramatically in in not only in this country but across the world but all also science has its misuses eugenics Oh Gen X is the idea that you could use genes or one would use genetic selection as a mechanism for determining the fate of your child and eugenics is always threatening especially in countries where I think especially in countries where there's a great premium placed on any quality right so for instance in India there's a premium placed on being male or having a male child and in fact if you look in several parts of India this is very well published data the ratio of male versus female children could be as abnormal it's used one-to-one but the ratio of male versus female surviving children can be as skewed as a 1 to 0.8 enough in other words for every 10 men or you know there are over there only 7 women children surviving women children - you know at least in adulthood so that is a form of eugenics these where do these children disappear they step disappeared some way there was a genetic selection in the case in that case so I think the ethical concerns are are absolutely there one thing is it turns out that most most of the common human diseases are not disease of one gene variants so it's not as there is one gene for one disease that's one point and so selection as it were genetic selection eugenics for these diseases is not simple it's not simple to do because there are many gene variations and the second point is that many of these diseases not all of many of these diseases have a very important environmental component so it's a little bit like you have the gun but without the trigger the gun doesn't fire so it's a predisposition it's a predisposition not an absolute disposition so and it's a statistical disposition in other words I could say you know you will be 50% chance that you will encounter breast cancer in your lifetime but it's very rare to be able to say there's a hundred percent chance that you'll encounter breast cancer in your lifetime and that's because it's a combination of course of inheriting a gene in the case of familial forms of breast cancer and some environmental chance component that we don't fully understand in that case do you as an oncologist advise people patients to do what an Angelina Jolie did which is that you get yourself gene mapped and then you say I don't even want to take X percent chance so I'd rather just have my breasts removed so as I said in the case of in the case of in the case of breast cancer there there are risk genes you can sequence them you can find them in your body and certain you can find family history I had you know we are only one of many people who advise such men and women because they meet genetic counselors they would meet a psychiatrist or psychologist at some point of time they would meet with their oncologist with me and we offer them not advice but try to elicit what they're in you know what they want to do we offer them lots of options you know for a woman with the highest higher risk for breast cancer but we know that the genetics is quite clear we don't know for most breast cancer but for some breast cancer we know genetics is quite clear we offer them advice that could range all the way from well let's wait and watch - you know let's try a medicine there are medicines that will reduce the risk to you know more radical forms of therapy such as bilateral mastectomies and allow them to choose we you know without them to make the decisions themselves because they have to make the decision but apply that to let's say your own concern with mental health and your family's sort of genetic history with it how did you deal with it did you say I want to be gene mapped did you say knowing maybe that there was no single gene as you've explained that could be a marker did you still have that sort of maybe anxiety of being gene map and looking using yourself almost as you know your own your own body as in laboratory yeah well so I could say personally I have not been gene mapped and that's what several reasons number one is in fact the genes for schizophrenia and bipolar illness are not very well known and still remain not very well known they were certainly not known in 2016 when the book when my book was finished and they are even in 2019 were still discovering what their identity is so we don't have any predictive way of telling you know if a person will have a high risk for schizophrenia or not so so therefore I didn't feel that the knowledge we would be so clear however I should say the things I can still it's very much an anxiety whether you know exactly what your genetic sequences or not anxieties very much how do you deal with it well I think I deal with it by monitoring and trying first of all being trying to understand and and thinking to myself you know are we first what I've read a lot and try to see you know is it time that will under have begun to understand these genetic risks but secondly you know with with with illnesses such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia you can certainly sense symptoms and I suppose I'm more acutely on guard or only aware of my mental state and if you feel yourself slipping into that that space do you Sam I don't I don't particularly into that space which is thankful but I'm talking aware there are certain anxieties that if and when I you know if and when my mental state changes is it because of there's a chance event that's happening my life is done having a bad day or a good day or is it because something is going on that you know predicts other things that will happen to my brain or in the future so gene mapping then and it's I'm asking this because it's very important for our viewers to understand this therefore I'm reiterating it gene mapping is not a common prescriptive advice for where science is today because a lot of people may see a celebrity like a Jolie and say okay maybe we should do that too and you are saying there are only certain kinds of diseases of illnesses of ailments where there can be a specific gene marker right that list is expanding okay and as I said it's there some illnesses where the gene is very single handedly responsible can you give some other sickle cell disease is one example so in other words if you inherit two variants one from your mom and one from your dad of the sickle cell anemia gene it's a variation in a hemoglobin gene then then chances are that in your lifetime you will get sickle cell so that's basically one gene you can sequence that one gene you can you'll know immediately cystic fibrosis is another example and in the case of breast cancer there there are some examples of genes where single gene mutations will or single gene changes will set you up at a higher risk for the cancer for the most of the human diseases such as cardiac illness schizophrenia bipolar disorder obesity in the case of you and and to end even diabetes some forms of diabetes two things are true they have a familial pattern so everyone many people um not everyone many people in a family may have the disease in those cases we are just beginning to find out that there's not one gene but multiple genes hundreds maybe even thousands of gene variants that contribute to the disease and we can begin to ascribe risk to an individual patient right now that set is quite limited uh let's talk a little bit about where we are in the fight against cancer and I ask you this because in August I read an article in the Scientific American which actually looked specifically at your book the Emperor of maladies and while it you know it praised the book as a great work of journalism it had one disagreement with you and it said that you were too optimistic and that if there had in fact been somewhat of a decline in mortality rate from cancers this was in large measure to the fact that fewer people was smoking today that smoking had in fact become mercifully stigmatized and that in terms of scientific advances this this article argue they hadn't been that much where do you stand on that argument well I have many things to say about about the argument number one is that the detection of smoking as a carcinogen is is is part of the success of the care anti-cancer program in other words you can't say you can't say you know gosh you know the cancer program has not not been successful because smoking has been smoking has solved so much smoking is very part and parcel of the anti-cancer program the identification of tobacco smoke as a carcinogen and our understanding of how you accumulate risk who are the patients were the greatest at risk etc has evolved very greatly and evolved because very much because of the scientific methods that are part of the anti-cancer project so the real criticism was not that I think the concern is not that you know science or cancer science has not had impact on on mortality it has absolutely had in fact but that you know cancer treatment yes not cancer prevention or cancer early detection but cancer treatment has had a limited has had very limited success that is true for some cancers but absolutely not true for other cancers so even common cancers such as breast cancer the mortality has decreased maybe one two in the in the United States maybe one to two percent every year now you could say what do - first percent doesn't matter but it's cumulative so over the course of about twenty odd years twenty five or years the mortality for breath from breast cancer has decreased by about twenty twenty five percent that's a big number that has big impact now in general if you look at the history of diseases so-called epidemiology epidemiological history treatment doesn't tend to have the most Impala health impact because a smaller fraction of patients are treated and a smaller fraction of patients than can be proved then when the disease can be prevented so for instance if you look at the history of the decrease of deaths from infectious diseases such as cholera and diphtheria etcetera etcetera most of that decline has been because of public health measures sanitation hygiene and vaccination etc it's not been because all of a sudden we found antibiotics now would you say the anti antibiotics are useless absolutely not they're very useful in case you of course get have have an infectious infectious illness so I think it's I think it's overly nihilistic and overly simplistic to say cancer treatment has not had any impact or minimal impact on on the lives of cancer patients but you know pre prevention has had the most impact and will hopefully continue to have impact but there are cancers that we are being able to treat where the impact has been enormous they have certainly not been other cancers such as pancreatic cancer acute myelogenous leukemia where in fact we haven't been able to make any difference really any substantial difference in the survivor of survivorship of some patients talking about prevention as something that is working or has worked when it comes to cancer there's been a lot of global focus and I know you've done some research yourself on the links between diet and cancer and you know you tweeted about this you have a published paper on the ketogenic diet it's much the fad right now in India and globally and I think it's really important to explain in simple terms what your research found on the keto diet and any possible links with cancer or in terms of prevention or treatment so my work with the ketogenic diet in collaboration with Luke Ansley has is quite restricted it has nothing to say whatsoever about whether keto diets work prevent or do anything to cancer by themselves we discovered we were following a very important but very constrained restricted question which is that women given a certain kind of targeted therapy women with breast cancer began to become diabetic and we wondered whether the medicine was making them diabetic and if if that consequence diabetes that was you know coming as a side effect of the medicine the chemotherapy that they were getting if that was contributing to their cancer becoming resistant I liken this to the famous story of the woodcutter who sits on a branch and chops off his own branch so in other words your own body is response to the drug was chopping off your capacity to to Spahn to the drug your own physiological response to the drug was cutting off your cancers response to the drug like the woodcutter cutting off his own tree so the conclusion of this paper is that key is that the ketogenic diet in combination with this drug not by itself not by itself is helpful in now making the cancers die cancer cells die and hopefully you know you know hopefully increase the chances that you will have a remission or a response to the cancer of two important caveats we talked about one already the ketogenic diet by itself was not effective at all or was in fact even worse on some cancers in animal models so that's the first point to say the second point is all of this is animal data with human cancers but but data generated with simple systems so we have to do a human trial and we're in the midst of doing a very very large and I would say very sophisticated human study to find out if the ketogenic diet in combination with this this family of medicines I will have a profound effect to be hope I will have a profound effect on cancer now there is a separate study funded by the National Institutes of Health which one looks at the ketogenic diet by itself first of all in preventing insulin resistance or early forms of diabetes in patients so there is one study there are other studies that are on their way which will look at the impact of ketogenic diet on prevention of various diseases these are all early in their in their research Anastacia in their research so I don't think we know yet firmly whether the ketogenic diet actually helps or doesn't help we know that there is a that people lose weight we don't No if because the diet is relatively high in fat and protein particularly fat we don't know what form of fat is healthy for patients and we don't know what the effects are for instance on the heart etc most patients again anecdotally will report losing weight and their diabetes is often brought into control because the insulin is the amount of insulin requirement is decreased so that is I would say there is evidence for that there's evidence in the literature for that but we need to run a proper study hopefully a randomized crossover study to understand whether patients should take it so before our humans should take it so before these studies come out I generally recommend that without the advice of your physician and guidance that you shouldn't destroy it by yourself so it's not it's not a fad that you would personally apply to your own life I don't you know i don't i follow a relatively healthy diet i do believe that that our society has excess carbohydrates excess sugar excess use of sugar and that is one mechanism that is contributing to obesity and in turn obesity is contributing to diabetes especially if you if you have a family history of diabetes i think there is a contribution link between obesity and diabetes obesity inflammation and I should say obesity and cancer so in general I think reducing carbs and sugar is reducing sugar in particular is a good idea now where is sort of the new frontier of research with with cancer and I've been sort of hearing you speak a little bit about this reading a little bit about it cell therapy can you talk a little bit about this this is a space you're just getting into you're bringing it to India and I mean I think we'd all like to know more well I think it's I think it's one of the most exciting frontiers for cancer treatment is to take a person's individual immune cells and weapon them weaponized by weaponizing them I mean you train the cells using gene therapy you train the cells to kill the cancer and these treatments have have been extraordinarily successful for some diseases especially blood cancers in the United States so these are called car t-cells will call them car t-cells it's a long acronym but these therapies have been extremely successful they're difficult to make they're difficult to regulate they are difficult to keep clean so we decided that but but they are life life saving in the United States these therapies can cost up from 300,000 dollars per patient to 1 million dollars per patient it's obviously an incredible amount of money we thought that we should number one provide these therapies in India for the first time if we can you know send satellites up and if we can have one of the most successful software in tech industries we can certainly provide this kind of therapy to very needy patients pediatric patients patients with terminal cancer so we decided to create a new model in which I teamed up with several groups but most importantly Biocon and singeing to create a completely new cell therapy facility into cell therapy unit in India and we hope to be able to deliver these therapies to children and adults you know as soon as possible as soon as next year at more affordable rates than they're available we are highly confident that we will get more affordable rates because of the ingenuity of Engineers here we don't want to compromise the safety or quality but we have to really take take you know take this very seriously so the company is called EMU Neil it is a consortium it is an in you know people it's a it's a mixture of investors most of whom we really believe that India be like any place you know any place in the United States or in Europe where you can avail of the latest therapies but in this case we hope at at least one fifth or one-tenth the cost very interesting in way that kind of makes me want to ask you where you come in on this whole debate in India it's a fierce debate between sort of generic drugs affordable on the one hand and upholding sort of intellectual property rights on the other how do you see well I think there I think there is a life cycle that drugs should go through in which they for a while the inventors should be allowed and the pharmaceutical companies that took the risks should be allowed to recoup the risks if we don't allow that innovation the cycle of innovation stops the Food and Drug Administration last year in the United States approved 50 odd drugs it's a record number the year before that it was 40 something the years before that have been in the 30s etc so we are at an accelerated pace and that accelerated pace is a consequence of funded biomedical research so basic research and also of course clinical and translational research is a combination of those those two things but both of them require innovation it's an it's an innovation cycle that makes human medicines possible if we stunt the innovation cycle anywhere then of course we stunt the capacity to make new medicines this is a you know this would be this would be obvious but on the other hand you also want these medicines to reach the human population so the natural life cycle of a medicine should begin with the inventors the people who put blood sweat and tears into the birth of the medicine to be able to be able to be recoup their investment their personal investments their lives spent but over time these drugs should and will become generic India's very good at producing these generic versions but the lifecycle of a drug should maintained and it should be maintained in a thoughtful manner obviously you know not you know not as not allowing them to be patented forever but also allowing the generated generics to go and and further cheapen the costs of production one last question a personal question I read a really moving account by you of your father's last few days and before you bring him home from the ICU you described this almost chilling you know sort of account of how you're moving him from one part of the hospital to the other and as his sodium stabilizes the doctors just say we need these beds you know more there are patients in the line waiting for these beds you've got to go to another part of the hospital there's a rickety wooden sort of things serving up as a stretcher you're lifting it yourself with the assistant getting him into some makeshift kind of ambulance it was really disturbing to read this yet this is the reality of of Indians in health care and I'm just wondering what that experience made you feel about the state of health care public health care in particular in the country of fluoridation well you see the experience was I was like being on a roller coaster or a sine wave on one hand we experienced extraordinary care from I did from doctors and nurses and all sorts of accessory stuff it was of extraordinary quality it had it was based on reason scientifically thought out medically thought out and clinically executed so so that was all that was the sort of the the peak of the of the roller coaster and there were many such examples a conversation with a geriatrician that I you know was really of the you know very deeply thought out conversation a conversation with his endocrinologist when his insulin and sodium could not be stabilized but on the other hand there were sudden failures like you know like having a big rift in the middle or right in the middle of these these experiences as well and almost all of them had to do with infrastructure so yeah you couldn't blame anyone there was not a faulty person there was a faulty system and a demand supply mismatch and a demand supply mismatch so you know you go from the ICU which could be where the level of care was of the highest caliber but then you can't move the patient to a bed because the ambulance is broken right meanwhile you know extraordinarily high tech instruments are being operated and understood at the ICU that was the experience over and over again that somehow the infrastructural components that keep medicine together the glue that keeps medicine together is often the place where the breakages are acute and those breakages are just as dangerous to patients as not having an instrument in the ICU and that's one of the things to recognize is that medicine occurs a good medicine of corrosion in ecology you know if a nurse or a doctor or whoever it might be makes makes a chronic mistake then tired you know all the words yeah collapses so that was that was the experience and it was a it was also a learning experience for the United States you know for my own work you know what were the what are the difference dead because of course there also yeah breakage is of infrastructure yeah well so that the the new research sounds in particular exciting and I'm going to be reading up more on that it's always a pleasure to have you yeah thank you thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: TmVrz3zLVzc (https://youtu.be/TmVrz3zLVzc) ===

foreign [Music] I have an I'm an MD and I have a PhD at D Phil in Immunology I'm currently an associate professor of medicine in the oncology division at Columbia University who are some important mentors early in your career uh so I had two uh three uh incredibly close early scientific mentors and then I had mentors later um the first and the most important uh was Paul Berg uh this was I was an undergraduate at Stanford University and at in my second year I joined Paul Berg's lab as an undergraduate um Paul um was and is um an incredibly uh influential uh geneticist one of the pioneers of of modern genetics his discoveries Are Legion but when I had joined Paul's lab this was in 1993-94 we were coming off the end of a very important series of discoveries which Paul had played a very crucial role in and that of course was the capacity to create recombinant DNA to stitch together two pieces of DNA a piece from a virus a peaceful and bacteria piece from a bacteria piece from a mammal into one piece of DNA using bacterial enzymes and had begun to create the recombinant DNA Revolution allowing us to basically change genetic code by stitching together two separate pieces of DNA which came from different animals or from different parts of the genome this had led as you very well know to a a series of important ethical questions because for the first time we were managing we had managed we had opened up the capacity to make synthetic pieces of DNA synthetic piece of genetic code which were unlike anything found in nature as I said you could stitch together a genetic code from a bacterium and a genetic code from a virus and the possibilities of being able to manipulate populate genes was enormous this led to a a an enormous public interest but also of public fears around what had happened and Paul was a central in creating the silamar conference and a conference which addressed uh Silo Mark II which addressed concerns public concerns and questions about what to do now that this technology was has had become available so Paul's lab when I joined Paul's lab I was working extensively with recombinant DNA and with new technologies around recombinant DNA in in my case putting them into yeast cells and to my own cells to figure out how to mix and match pieces of DNA together to make them work in yeast and mammalian cells so Paul was a very early mentor and what's interesting about Paul is Not only was he a mentor as a scientist but he also opened my eyes to the potential ethical and clinical concerns safety concerns clinical concerns around genetics and the modification of genes concerns which will of course Echo over time as we go along so this is now 1990 394. my second major early Mentor was at Oxford where I went to pursue my PhD my D fill and that was Alan Townsend um Allen had uh solved an incredibly important problem in Immunology he'd helped solve an incredibly important problem the Immunology with many colleagues but the problem was um it's very simply stated which is uh if you have a a cell that's infected by a virus and the virus is sitting within the cell its DNA or its RNA is inside the cell how can a T Cell possibly recognize the infected cell because the contents of the virus the uh the DNA or the RNA is sitting inside how can a T Cell recognize something that it can't see because the cell the infected cell is uh visible to the T Cell but only its outside is visible to the T Cell so it was a kind of you know how do you scan the inside of a cell problem and Alan had solved it partially by making the discovery that viruses uh sorry that cells have an uh have an innate molecular apparatus by which they pick up the contents uh made by these viral genes they pick up these contents broken down pieces of these contents peptides and display them like molecular tags on their cell surface it's a very specialized system to do this a series of molecular steps that allows essentially a cell to take its innards and display them on its surface as if saying you know this is what I contain within me and if that can happens to be from a foreign Invader like a virus or a micro then the T cell can sense it and thereby kill the infected cell so Paul and Alan were very influential to me for different reasons Paul because he introduced me to the ideas around genetic engineering recombinant DNA cloning and its potential applications and the ethical concerns Allen um was worked on a problem that was much more close to a human problem um why do infections get cleared how does one obtain immunity and and Alan really pushed me towards thinking more about medicine which is where I of course mainly have my the center of my work there were two people who came later um one was Connie sepco and I should say Connie worked very closely with a geneticist cliffhaven Connie and Cliff um uh were both at Harvard I went to medical school there and they were interested in develop problems of development in Connie's case how does the nervous system develop um how does the retina develop in particular and she was a cell biologist and so from Connie I learned how to do a technique that I still use today called lineage tracing but the questions there were you know how does a single cell become you um so it was again you think about this as a kaleidoscope uh Paul thinking about recombinant DNA and DNA Alan thinking about some of the clinical problems of DNA of of of of human diseases Connie and Cliff thinking about how DNA becomes actualized so you have a long genome but it's inert without being actualized into making diverse kinds of cells and those diverse kinds of cells have to make a retina they have to make a brain they have to make your fingers how does all of this unfold in space and time um and so the you know Connie came Connie I was in Connie's lab and again took on projects that had to do with solving this kind of you know how does the genome become a person an animal an organ and finally um I should mention David scadden um uh I started working with David Scott David was a hematologist and he was of all these people the closest to the clinic um he was creating trials David was involved in uh working very closely with stem cells uh blood forming stem cells hematopoic stem cells and that is what and he had made some fundamental discoveries about how hematopoietic stem cells live inside bone marrow um and so he brought me to problems uh which were now directly adjacent to patients you know can we do gene therapy with uh blood stem cells um how could we what were the ethical and safety concerns with those kinds of therapies how does one actually bring this to human practice which is where you know the area that I sit in today when did you first hear the Human Genome Project what were your initial thoughts I heard very much about the Human Genome Project because it was very richly discussed in in Paul's lab Paul had been very closely involved along with many other people obviously Jim watts and Wally Gilbert um uh John soulston virtually you know Francis Collins virtually uh uh this idea had started coalescing of a kind of Consortium um as it were of trying to not just sequence single genes or two genes or five genes but the entire Human Genome um so around 93 is when I first even heard the word Human Genome Project I was then unaware of the private effort and the public effort and how these would intersect and coalesce and compete so I was very unaware I would say by about the late 90s was when it was very clear uh what the project looked like or was was looking like there was a widespread newspaper coverage by then um and by the time I was in Allen's laboratory it was very much something that at Oxford very much something that we spoke about you know just to give you a sense of of how important it had already become to us um these this T Cell problem um has to do with um specialized molecules um uh called in humans labeled with the word HLA uh human leukocyte antigen or MHC major histocompatibility complexes complicated words but really is a set of genes um carried in the in in in cells which allows um these peptides from viruses to be presented on the surface of cells this is a an an incredibly important part of the genome because it determines whether your tissue can be transplanted into mind whether your bone marrow can be transplanted into mine but it was also a very tough part of the genome to sequence for various structural reasons there's lots of repeats there's lots of elements in in in that part of the genome so it's it's importance to us um as a solution to be able to scan a genome and to figure out where these genes lived um where they came from in evolution what they did what functions they had Etc and how those functions uh to what extent was was uh encoded or or determined by where they were located in the genome all of these questions were very very relevant to the work we're doing we were doing and continue to do um as I thought more and more about bone marrow transplantation a field that I would eventually really become the center of of of what I worked on these the the genes that allow us to do transplantation across one from one human to another for conditions such as leukemia and other diseases uh became of crucial importance so the Human Genome Project was not an abstraction anymore by the mid 90s it was a reality it was a necessity we and we needed that information to try to solve some of the thorniest problems that we were trying to solve in in Allen's lab tell us how you came to write the Emperor of all maladies yeah so I came to it I would say a little bit backwards um so I'll tell you I'll I'll tell you the story of the journey that that unfolded um uh you know when I was at Stanford I was in Paul's lab um and one could say that there was there were these Echoes of what it meant what the public discourse around science meant and it was really inspired by Paul talking extensively about a silamar and what it had done to him as a scientist as a thinker as an intellectual um we would have lab meetings sometimes we would have lab Retreats sometimes we would so in fact the first lab Retreat that I went to was at asilamar it turned out that you know the lab still used Stanford still used a silamar as its site so I had this strange and and wonderful opportunity uh when I went in 1994 I think or 1995 I had a poster as an undergraduate in the assilimar retreat but then Marianne Dickman who had been Paul's assistant research assistant and really a phenomenal researcher in her own right um and Paul uh you know we walked me through a cinema saying oh you know this is the building where the the worst argument broke out around between the journalists and the uh and and the scientists here's where we signed you know this document uh this was where you know we stayed up all night eating Chinese food um you know trying to write uh what would become one of the central documents of a silamari There Was You Know The Graduate students uh were there here was you know Jim what's his this is where Jim Watson stood up and said you know let's do this Etc so it was a a kind of visual tour as it were of History um and echoing in the back of my mind was you know this story is it's got to be told somehow the story is so important so moving so crazy so powerful um and has such public impact that it has to be told but I wasn't in a position to tell it or write it um so I then went down to Oxford but this kind of echoed public discourse around science Echo kept echoing in the back of my head um at Oxford I was a nose to the ground PhD student you know solving problems trying to write my thesis but at the end of when I finished my thesis again this this kind of old idea uh that this story this story needs to be told these stories need to be told uh more publicly came back to me so when I came to medical school um this was in 2000 1990 seven um I first began to start writing um and you I started small um I wrote for the new Republic the New York Times um usually smaller things I was learning medicine learning clinical medicine and most of these first ideas were around sort of the life life the life of a medical student the life of medicine um I remember writing a piece about Resident hours I remember reviewing um um books that had to do with with medicine for the for the for the times and for the Times magazine but the idea of writing a 600 page book hadn't really occurred to me um I then decided to become an oncologist um and uh started undergoing training as an oncologist and that's where I sort of began to think that you know we've thought about this public discourse uh I've been thinking about how little and how how little some things are known and how important they are um and so I began to think there should be a the story should be told and that was the Inception as I was went through my fellowship in oncology that was the Inception of the emperor well nowadays the first book on cancer and that book really started out as a journal I was keeping a journal I would write every day at the end of rounds at the end of my day and slowly began to grow and grew out of a patient's question the patient asked me you know I was giving a woman a new trial for chemotherapy and she said where am I going and and and and what are we doing um and it was sort of a kind of a a cry from the heart you know desperation but also a philosophical question you know cancer is was and is one of the most talked about words in the English language you can't open a newspaper without encountering the word cancer somewhere um and yet its history was unknown its story was unknown there was no biography as it were of cancer and that was the Inception of the improval analogies for you what makes cancer such a fascinating subject well I think it's not only for me I think very broadly speaking the public perceives cancer as an exceptional disease it is partly because we have pitted the best of our minds the best minds of Our Generation against it and we have had sobering success against cancer um it was for a while it was the second most feared word in the English language Aftershock [Music] and I don't work on sharks so the the public fear of the disease the the the fact that we had pitted our the most Brilliant Minds of Our Generation against it the fact that it had yielded important um insights um and certainly treatments and cures but and yet sort of was unreachable had remained outside Conquest um is a it was you know is it is the essential stories like you know the man battling the bear story uh it is it is the man it is humans if there is a very Primal quality about the about the the story it is the you know humans battling the unknown in in a cave um so I think all of these elements make it um one of the most fascinating stories of the 20th and 21st century why do you think our progress combating cancer has been so sobering well there are many insights um um about why the progress has been has been sobering well first let's identify the fact that there has been progress there's no doubt about it um cancer mortality has fallen about one person every every year for the last 20 odd years that translates into 20-25 percent decrease in cancer related mortality um first of all there's it's not one disease but many diseases it's almost a cliche but um but the idea that you know you don't have one Magic Bullet solution to cancer um has become very clear so some cancers have become extraordinarily attractable to prevention and treatment prevention early detection and treatment um breast cancer is a good example where treatment has made an enormous difference there is certainly early detection with modest success and but not a lot of you know there's some prevention especially these days now that we know people with genetic susceptibilities for breast cancer we've been able to do launch successful prevention campaigns particularly focused on people with genes such as bracko one and bracket two um on the other hand pancreatic cancer particularly in its advanced form has remained doggedly resistant to treatment so the diversity of cancers is one reason that has been it's been very sobering the word Magic Bullet has never turned out to be either a bullet or magic and so that's been a very sobering realization um and second I think it was very clear early on that the campaign against cancer would be a bit like a pyramid the bottom of the pyramid would be prevention then there would be early detection and the top of the pyramid would be treatment um in the last decade or so we made at first an enormous success in prevention basically by eliminating cigarette smoking as a major carcinogen and then you know Finding uh things uh finding viruses that cause cancer such as the human papilloma virus and creating vaccines against them so these were very successful efforts but then in the last 10 odd years I think to some extent it's been sobering to realize that the number of chemical carcinogens with large human impact that we've been able to remove as much like cigarette smoking was we were able to diminish we haven't found so many um and so the we have had to really rethink to some extent how to prevent cancer um in a way that that you know had seemed maybe 20 30 40 years ago perhaps simpler 20 30 40 years ago one might have made the argument that there were a dozen or so common carcinogens and those and by systematically removing those dozen or so common carcinogens cigarette smoking one of them virus seasoning some of them that we would make enormous strides against cancer and that there would be biomarkers markers of uh of risk that we could find in people and we could then use whatever tools that we had to diminish uh those those risks both of those have not turned out what have turned out to be the case but they've turned out to be much more sobering than we had imagined in contrast just to give you a contrast uh in in coronary disease in heart disease um both that turned out to be true so um it turned out that number one that it was for the most part one disease I should say all three turned out to be true for the for the most part it turned out to be one disease essentially one disease although people could have arguments about what the pathophysiology of the disease essentially one disease number two is that prevention uh primary prevention became possible by behavioral modification dietary modification and potentially the use of a new series of drugs to lower cholesterol so primary prevention became possible and finally um the the it became very clear that there were clear biomarkers so um having a you know having a high level of a particular form of cholesterol was a indicated risk and therefore you could be placed on medicines such as aspirin and and for instance Lipitor to reduce the risk hypertension was a risk smoking was a risk and there were other risks that were familiar risks family histories were risks age as a risk and so forth so you had all sorts of markers by which you could identify patients before they had the Frank disease and if and you could intervene and change the biology of people before they had the Frank disease so just to summarize all three things the fact that it was largely one disease the fact that it was uh largely that there were behavioral and other mechanisms of preventing it and number three that you could identify the highest risk patients in in in for heart disease made that an enormous clinical success so much so much so that the mortality from heart disease as you know has declined up to 70 percent uh if you have the appropriate access in contrast as I said the mortality from cancer has drip drip drip drip dripped uh slowly frustratingly because it is just the opposite it is many diseases um there was aside from some obvious candidates it was not easy to find mechanisms of primary prevention and number three biomarkers of risk aside from some genetics um and some other exposures the biomarkers of risk were few and far between so exactly what happened in heart disease in some ways did not happen in cancer because they're two fundamentally different illnesses and that's been some of the frustration and some extent the challenge of working in in this field how have efforts like the cancer genome Atlas tcga change the fight against cancer so in many ways um so again one could we could divide this up with this question up systematically um first of all one should say that the tcga was built on top of the Human Genome Project so the Human Genome Project provided the template to build the cancer Genome Project allowing us to figure out what are the genetic changes in in cancer cells I should preface this by saying that this must be known to it's your audience but at its base cancer is a genetic disease so and by genetic disease we mean that cancer occurs or is caused by mutations in genes that alter cellular growth cellular metabolism and allow cells to grow when they're not supposed to grow and occasionally don't allow cells to die when they're supposed to die these genes further co-opt mechanisms metabolism they co-opt growth Pathways such that the cancer cell grows without control has no longer the control that normal cells have when you have a cut in your hand a wound it heals but you don't grow a new hand that's because the cells in your hand have a capacity to grow to fill the wound and repair the wound but then have also a capacity to stop growing so that you still don't have a new hand growing artifact in cancer these Pathways because of mutations in genes these pathways are dysregulated so that now you have a cell that keeps growing or cells that keep growing um but that brings us to the question or brought us to the question what are these mutations what are the genes how many are there is it one in a cancer cell are they ten are they 20 what is their diversity within a cancer two breast cancers do they have the same set of genes or do they have different sets of genes what is the diversity across cancers if you compare breast cancer to pancreatic cancer what is the diversity of Cross Cancer so the first thing that the human that the cancer Genome Project provided building on the Human Genome Project was a answers to these questions how many genes are mutated in cancers what are the genes what is the identity of the genes what is the what is the relationship between let's say two breast cancers what is the relationship between breast cancer and pancreatic cancer or lung cancer what is the compendium what is the Encyclopedia of mutated genes that allow cancers to behave like cancers that was a major and very important series of uh discoveries the second was to ask the question now that you know these mutated genes can you use them to understand how to derive new therapies um and that has been an ongoing project that might those might include molecules like Gleevec or imaginib which take a particular product of a cancer Gene called BCR able the protein B cerebral and basically jams the function of that protein enabling it to not function anymore now bcra was discovered long before the Human Genome Project but the Human Genome Project put mutations such as BCR able and others in the context of the entire human genome so we began to imagine new forms of therapy based on our understanding of the complexity of cancers cancer genomes and the third was cancer prevention so and we are this is also an ongoing effort again based on early efforts to map genes which eventually would coalesce into the cancer Genome Project we began to find genes that increase susceptibilities for cancer these are in fact biomarkers the few and far between that we have the gene bracha one is one of them Gene the gene bracket two is one of them the cancer Genome Project again these were found before the full compendium was reached but it put these genes in the context of the human genome and put the gave us a sense of uh really as I said what the complexity and what the compendium was the The Next Step the phase that we're in is to take all those all that material that these insights and translate them into prevention detection and cure and that's the process that we're undergoing right now how do we interpret the alterations in the cancer in cancer genes and mutations you know a breast cancer could have millions of cells but you know could have 130 mutations um uh whereas other cancers maybe have only one or two mutations how can two mutations Drive the physiology of a cancer cell what happens when you have 100 mutations um how do so so really the cancer Genome Project building on the Human Genome Project closed a certain set of questions how many genes are there what are their what is their identity what is the mutations look like but open their new set of questions which is how do these genes make cancers abnormal behavior happen what is the physiology of cancer and and now we've gone on to yet another set of questions now that we've understood the physiology of cancer we're asking how is the physiology of cancer related to the physiology of the host so immunotherapy is that third set of questions so we really think about all of these as sequential steps um eventually always asking the same question which is how do we take The genome and use that to understand better ways of preventing cancer better ways of detecting cancer early for instance you know you might find a way to detect cancer by genes that are shed in the blood it's a very common theme uh these days and thereby detect cancer in its early phases and finally treatment you know how can we understand the how the genes make cancer behave abnormally how can we understand how the cancer interacts with the hosts cells again the host genome and the cancer genome juxtaposed against each other or interacting with each other through cells and how can we thereby Drive new kinds of treatment do you think of the hgp and tcga as question generating Enterprises how are they distinct from other types of scientific inquiry oh I absolutely think of the Human Genome Project and the cancer genome Atlas as a question generating Enterprise um you know and I think we would not have embarked on it uh if it was not a question generating Enterprise in this sense it's very different fundamentally different from things that it's been compared to so it's been often compared to the Manhattan Project it's been compared to the Apollo projects but here is uh and and I've written about this extensively it's a fundamentally different the Manhattan Project was not a question generating Enterprise it was an answer generating Enterprise can you split an atom and cause a bomb Detonator bomb that is not a question it is an answer it raises certain questions but it doesn't raise fundamental questions it answers questions it is an engineering project um the moon landing also uh is not a question generating Enterprise it is an answer generating Enterprise it it is driven by when you land on the moon you've landed on the moon you've done something concrete uh it shows that you know if you ask the question can human beings land on the moon you can say yes they can uh we did and of course it generates a small number of questions the Human Genome Project and the cancer genome Atlas should not be viewed really because if they're viewed as the Manhattan Project and the Apollo project then the public says well what do we get out of it um what are the answers but really should be seen as template projects they should be seen as question generating projects and what we are seeing out of it is the answers to those questions the answers to those questions are can we prevent cancer that the question is you know what does the Human Genome Project tell us or the cancer Genome Project tell us about how to prevent or treat a cancer so I've tried very hard in this kind of long discourse to make a very simple distinction between question generating projects and answer generating projects hypothesis generating projects and hypothesis proving projects the Human Genome Project and the cancer genome Atlas live very much in the hypothesis generating arm or the hypothesis generating Arena of of the scientific Enterprise the Manhattan Project and the Apollo project lie very much closer to the hypothesis closing aspects of this Enterprise and of course that's not absolutely true but for the most part and and I think it's very important uh for the public discourse around science to be able to distinguish these two things because if they cannot then you mix up uh these two ideas and then you ask the wrong kinds of questions you ask the question what did I get out of it right um well you know out of the Manhattan Project or out of the you know you got a bomb that some people might say brought the war to an end so what do I get out of it that's a very concrete answer what do I get out of the Human Genome Project I would say we'll get a whole bunch of interesting questions and if you didn't realize that that was the purpose of the Human Genome Project I was one of the purposes of the Human Genome Project you as a taxpayer as the public as a journalist as a writer as a thinker might feel disappointed you could say what did I get off it well I got a whole bunch of questions out of it and you would say well did I did I pay all this money to get this effort put these Brilliant Minds to work to get questions and you and some people might say that's that's really disappointing but to me as a scientist it's fundamentally important to explain that these are two different ideas they have different aims um and once you know if you know that they have different names all of a sudden you say that's very interesting I got a whole series of questions out of it and those questions when we answer those questions as we answer those questions we will find new treatments for not just diseases like cancer but of course illnesses in general and understand the human body in a fundamentally different way given that how do you contextualize personalized medicine so that has been again that that has put the question was posed that now that we have the capacity to sequence human genomes how much do we have now the capacity to personalize medicine for an individual disease or an individual cancer um the answer turned out to be uh somewhat but not very much uh for certain diseases um and the answers are still emerging so what have we learned well we've learned some very important lessons one we've learned that most common human diseases uh hypertension heart disease breast cancer um and others are the risks for them are not contained in a single Gene but really in tens of genes thousands of genes even tens of thousands of genes for most common human diseases there are certainly rarer human diseases whereas single mutation in a gene will cause the disease or greatly increase your chance of having a disease cystic fibrosis is one of them the many others sickle cell anemia is one of them um Huntington's disease uh is yet another one um but for common human diseases um some of which I named we've discovered that in fact the uh for for most humans uh the genetics of the genomics is is quite complicated and therefore delivering Precision medicine isn't going to be a first order problem it isn't going to be a kind of match as it were a jigsaw puzzle in which the genome will match in medicine and you'll put these two things together and all of a sudden boom you'll get the treatment for for a particular disease it has turned out to be more complex so the question that it asked was is it possible to use um genetic information to go from genes to Medicine in a in a in a simple Manner and the answer is for genes where the uh where the genetics is simple the prediction of risk is simpler the capacity to diagnose is simpler the potential to intervene has we've now begun to see attempts to intervene that have been successful but for most human diseases it has turned out that the genetics or the genomics is complex um the match between the genes and the medicines is not one to one and if we are still trying to figure out the extent to which we can match these complex genetic uh uh susceptibilities or vulnerabilities to the appropriate medicine and that has been that's the answer to the question how do you define the public and effectively communicate scientific inquiry to that public well I mean I have some fundamental first of all we I think you never underestimate the public these are people who have have you know it is it is their generosity to some extent our generosity their generosity that has sustained this institute that has sustained the you know decades-long projects to investigate and human diseases and to emancipate us from illness and suffering so uh and the public as you know however you define it however broadly you define it has fundamentally always supported the mission of the National Institutes of Health and that there should be a national health program so a research program so what does the public mean well the public is very broad it has very broad sense you know you range from people with deep interest in health literacy to people who have no interest in healthy literacy access is complicated educational levels are complicated socioeconomic levels are very wide their racial disparities which are in health so the public is not one public there are many publics um how does one speak to that public well first of all as I said never underestimate and I think the fundamental rule is is that one should be able to communicate the central goals of a project or any project scientific project in a way that's understandable to a um what I I sort of I would say to a fifth grader um not because the public has a fifth graders intellect but your capacity as a communicator of science should be so simple that um that someone who is generally able to speak and understand language in with some some degree of complexity should be able to understand why you're doing the project this was epitomized by my uh you know by Gary Gilliland another one of my mentors a leukemia biologist um who basically said that if you're a graduate student and you cannot explain your project to your grandfather or your grandmother and in in two sentences or less and have them figure out why it's important then you're doing something wrong um it's not that you're communicating wrong there's something wrong with your project um it's it is it is too complicated it's not worth it it's not worthwhile it's maybe you require simplification you your brain requires some simplification it's not that they it's not that is the recipients of the information have the problem it's actually The Giver of the information of the problem and it's not a communication problem per se it's not as if you can't it is the problem that things are muddled in your head um and and if they're muddled in your head they'll are they'll be modeled as you go through what you're doing in the lab so um and so you you know this you know this could be this basically it it it it turns out to be a mechanism by which you know your father your mother your fifth grader uh your family member uh around Thanksgiving table um should be able to understand what you're doing and why you're doing it in two sentences or three sentences um they may not get the micro details they might not get the technical details but they should be able to understand it and that's the kind of public you want to be able to reach um never underestimate uh never patronize never soften but you should be able to describe the essential goals of what you're trying to do um in a way that's intelligible uh to someone who understands this the the basic uh instruments of language what role do you think scientists should fill within the public discourse well they have many roles I mean you know they are to some extent the experts so they have roles to ensure that the knowledge is this that the correct knowledge is dispensed and dispersed uh that false knowledge which is false news which abounds today is not dispersed and is contained and is refuted uh and it can only be refuted as I said with without using technicalities technicality is actually the friend of false knowledge uh technical speakers the friend of false knowledge uh or false news because you can hide behind words you can hide behind technical words even more than anything else so I think that I think you know we have a responsibility um as I said as as we move along in various things that we're doing within the realm of research and health one of the responsibilities is to be able to communicate that effectively to refute false news um and sometimes the false news might be a disagreement with another scientist uh to be able to refute that uh this and do it in a manner that's civil and based on evidence science Communications around science like science itself has to do with evidence bring evidence and and create a civil argument around evidence I mean this seems to have been lost uh in this last five years or so but um but that is the basis and it's been going on in the in the the discourse in science for centuries how did you decide to write the gene in Intimate history well at the end of the book on cancer the the question that's raised at the end of the book on cancer is cancer cells are abnormal uh how does normalcy happen what is normalcy and by normalcy I don't mean a kind of um uh you know I don't mean a kind of moral definition of normalcy I mean how do cells develop how do we not have cancer um what makes our bodies develop and to some extent I was going through um my my scientific mentors um the book on cancer really came out of my fellowship um the book on genetics and genomics went backwards uh to to people like Paul um and to people like Connie and sepco and Cliff taben who were asking fundamental questions not about cancer but about you know how does what do genes look like how can we manipulate them uh how do genes make organisms uh develop come out become real um so it was a kind of going backwards to some extent and it was also motivated by a very personal story and the history of mental illness in my family where there was and still is a suspected genetic link schizophrenia and bipolar bipolar disease that has crossed several Generations in my family where where there is a a genetic link there certainly environmental links but there is a genetic link so that's why it's called an intimate history um and um and so that's how the second book came to be realized why is genetic information an important topic for you well it's it's it's the idea of of how essential it is and how private it is and how personal it is uh it is the most intimate information we have uh it belongs to us in a way that no other really information belongs to us because it's writ into ourselves it is written to our you know we use the word written to DNA in popular uh as a popular phrase but in this case it is literally written into DNA um I think there's an uh you know a kind of essentializing quality about it we find it it's essential to you it is private to you it belongs to you um your exposures your environment your experiences um somehow are choices that you make um but the genome is what you're handed what you're given these ideas go back in history to people like Rousseau and other philosophers you know what is the what is the tabular rasa what is the table that you begin with what is the blank slate that you begin with and the genome your genome is the Slate that you begin with you begin with it before you have your first experience before you make your first choice before you do your first activity it is uh it is inside you um and therefore the level of privacy uh the level of uh personhood level of intimacy that you have associated with it metaphorically culturally biologically socially uh it remains exceptional um and I think that people who've argued against this very successfully saying you know your genome doesn't determine you um and most people who are thoughtful about genetics would say yes there's a component in which genes uh determine who you are but there are large interplays between genes and your environment there's a large interplay with genes and chance uh you know if you have an accident and break a leg that is not a genomic event but it will it has enormous consequences for may have enormous consequences for your life and your fate and your choices and your decision so to think of human fate and and human Destiny entirely in Gene and genetic and genomic terms is clearly false but also clearly a fallacy um but on the other hand to not think of human Destiny and choice in um and and future in terms of genomes is also false um and so so part of the education around the idea of of what genes do how they work how they make us how they don't make us is to draw that line and to understand that it's genes plus environment plus chance plus triggers that ultimately results in human phenotype human Faith human Destiny human choices Etc how does the hgp figure into the debates over genetic determinism well it was not the human gene I think I don't think it was a human genome Project's task to address either the intimacy or the or or to resolve genetic determinism um I think the human genomes task was Project's task was to sequence the human genome as we sequence the human genome we found out what we somewhat knew but really found out in real terms that human beings are very similar to each other genetically but we also contain differences from each other and these differences are responsible for differences between you and me and have consequences for our bodies have consequences for illness and have consequences for our destiny as I said they're not the only things that have consequences environment chance fate and so forth so I don't think it was a human genomes projects project to solve or unsolve genetic determinism genetic determinism existed before the Human Genome Project and will exist after the Human Genome Project it is a part of how humans think of genes the Human Genome Project Illustrated that we are very similar to each other and that there in some ways we have critical differences between each other and it basically allowed us to deepen the discourse about these similarities and differences and raise the question as I said it's a question raising Enterprise raise the question you know to what extent are we determined by genes and the answer has has had been clear for a long time the answer had been that you know it is it is a flawed and foolish thing to say that human Destiny or fate or human beings are entirely genetically determined or you know strong genetic determinism is a flawed idea a weak genetic determinism is a flawed idea somewhere in between uh lies the truth how should scientists approach ethical concerns over determinism arising from social genomic well the first word is cautiously um and um thoughtfully um and the second idea is again to try to hold one's sense of balance uh against this powerful new wave of genetic determinism as we associate Snips and other things with complex socially complex ideas educational achievement um sexual orientation um we are witnessing a kind of revivalist phase of genetic determinism if you have these genes you will be that um so the first thing that needs to be addressed is that uh that that is generally not true as I said there are exceptions to this case if you have a mutation in the Huntington's disease Gene you will likely experience that disease in your lifetime that is a powerful form of that is a powerful genetic determinant in contrast most complex human traits have genetic determinants behind them but are highly modified uh refracted as it were through the lenses of environment triggers Johnson Choice such that when we communicate these ideas to the public we have to stand against this this revivalist buffeting wind of the new genetic determinism and the only way to do that is to do that by tackling the problem head on is to say that there is going on right now and in fact the book that Gene ends here it makes very clear there is this this wind that is this this new buffet that is that is trying to knock off uh really a sober knowledge about how complex human traits and destinies and futures are attained which is a an intersectional interaction between genes and environment this was known you know since dobzyanski's days um but it is important I think now especially to stand steadfast against that buffeted wind and to reinforce this idea that that no one is saying that your genes are you and you are your genes and there's a one-to-one map between one and the other in rare circumstances there is one could produce such a map but for most complex human traits it's not the case how can science communicators help us avoid deterministic Frameworks well it's to emphasize what we've learned over you know the last several decades that as I said before most complex human traits some exceptions aside are determined by multiplicities of genes and multiplicity of genes interacting with environments chances triggers choices exposures Etc so in other words you can't create an epidemiology of human Destiny just by reading the human genome in rare cases you can create some sense of what a person's future would look like because those genes the mutations in those genes are so autonomous so powerful that they will swerve your fate but those are rare cases the more most common cases are not them what most excites you about the future of genomic medicine well so we are working on several aspects of this I'll tell you the one thing that's that we are working on that is very interesting to me I treat leukemia and um it's a disease of it's a cancer of blood cells and really um for the kind of leukemia that I treat acute myeloginism AML we know a lot about the genome uh we know a lot of other genetic mutations but unfortunately we have not been able really thus far to be able to Target any of these genetic mutations with drugs um or match the mutation with the appropriate kind of drug there's been a couple of exceptions to that there's a mutation called flit 3 which there is a drug for but again the effectiveness has been pretty limited and we're using for this disease drugs that are were made in the 1970s um one of the approaches that we've taken which is a completely novel approach is to say well what if we instead of changing so the the an amazing capacity in this disease in AML would be to to be able to distinguish between the cancer cells and the normal cells and kill just the cancer cell and spare the normal cell but whenever we've tried to do that we've never found things on the cancer cell tags markers that were not present in the normal cell so we've been stuck in this disease because every time we try to kill the cancer cell we kill the normal cells as well and obviously you can't do that because you will very soon reach it reach a threshold and you can't cross that barrier and we've struggled and struggled and struggled against this and then all of a sudden we had this idea that what if rather than constituting on the cancer we could use genetic Technologies to change the normal cells thereby making the cancer cells unique in other words we would bioengineer a tag in a cancer cell which would be eliminated using genetic techniques such as crispr from normal cells thereby creating a cancer specific or cancer unique Target we developed this in the laboratory and we're launching a clinical trial this would not happen if we didn't have tools like crispr at our disposal so gene therapy and crispr and various other things that are disposal so I'm excited about the use of these tools to enable novel forms of medicine which could not be imagined before these new genetic and genomic tools were available that's one the second idea that I'm very interested in is pre-implantation genetic diagnosis the idea that you can biopsy potentially an embryo and make decisions first of all figure out whether they're whether it carries mutations that are that cause serious genetic diseases or serious diseases and Choose Or Not choose to implant those those embryos it's a very ethically complicated Arena as you can imagine lots of debate around it and a lot of questions that have been raised you know should you know what should parents be allowed to choose for how much information should parents be given or can anyone be given to make that choice so I'm very interested in that technology and all its ethical the debates that follow and the third of course is using tools such as crispr and others synthetic DNA Etc to make alterations in human cells a particularly in sperm and egg cells to alter human genomes potentially for the future so if you're talking about sperm and egg cells to make alterations that will be carried generation after generation and this is uh again an ethical Minefield what alterations should we be seeking is how safe are they can it be done technically so those are the three Arenas that I think are most exciting how can scientists effectively navigate and communicate these complex ethical issues well first of all I want for the first thing one does is to learn the history um you know this this idea that we are coming close or approaching the language of positive Eugenics first of all you have to explain what positive Eugenics is and and what it did and what it was um you know in the United States not far away from here it's not we're not talking about the atrocities of of killing killings in in in Nazi Germany we're talking about sterilization of the sterilization of Carrie Buck we're talking about forced sterilizations of women usually in order to prevent genetic diseases based on very poor science usually in very poor Public public understanding um so that's one thing that to begin the migration or the or the navigation across these ethical minefields one begin one has to talk about history and why why that history is what what happened why that happened how did we let it happen um and what its consequences were the second thing I think we we need to focus on is defining rigid criteria strong criteria when we are about the kind of information that we that we are allowed to manipulate and allowed to have so for instance information about diseases where the causal link between the disease and the gene is very strong I gave you a couple of examples Huntington's disease being one of them um is information that might be valuable to a parent for uh pre-implantation genetic diagnosis uh that that information seems to be seems to lie in the realm uh where an action could be justifiably taken in other words you could choose not to implant an embryo that carried a mutation which might cause a lethal neurodegenerative disease in the future you may choose to but you may not choose to that choice might be left to you because no one speaks for the embryo you as a parent must make that decision whereas information about complex traits where there's chances are you don't understand the traits there's only a propensity it is a it is an accepted part of human diversity um it is a socially accepted part of human diversity um I think that information is not very useful providing that information it only causes greater confusion among people and this is not to take a paternalistic view of it but but just but just and say you know you can't have that information but it should remind us that having that information and making a choice about it making a and making an action on it is not justified because that action is based on incomplete information in information is incomplete it is it is never going to be complete uh it is the nature of that information that it is not deterministic um I think that information should be limited uh it should be limited by several mechanisms but but limited primarily because as a scientist giving you that information could not and should not cause you to make an actionable choice because I cannot tell you in any manner way or or scheme the link between that information and what you hope to achieve with it which is a a a a a kind of uh um a certainty about a future destiny um so so that's another one the third one is is is the is the simplest of all and that is that we really limit uh the information and the choices to diseases of extraordinary suffering um that the centerpiece of all of this and this I'm speaking as a physician should be suffering um the definition of suffering our understanding of suffering who suffers uh because as I said no one speaks with the embryo um but but we do have uh an understanding of suffering what suffering means um it's a malleable understanding that it changes over time um and you might decide that uh that a particular form of suffering isn't meaningful to you um you know uh for a community of of people um with different stature short statured people might decide that it is not a form of suffering um that um and that in fact there is a kind of uh there is a a malignant patronism to defining that as a kind of suffering um so I think the way to navigate these fields are these the things that I told you about number one is to have a very public conversation about the definition of what extraordinary suffering is number two to understand the history of uh of positive Eugenics and the closeness that we've had to it historically in this country and number three to be particularly cautious about information where the genetic where genetic determinism is weak but is likely to be interpreted as strong um and so I think these are early steps I talk about them in the book I call this a triangle um I think you know maintaining yourself within the triangle extraordinary suffering strong causal link between Gene and disease and no other justifiable alternative um is a is a is a triangle that is kind of a safe Zone and of course this is superposed on on the history of positive Eugenics you can if you depart that zone if you begin to intervene uh on something that we don't consider extraordinary suffering whether whether whether where the questions about extorted suffering are not resolved are very much still in in the public realm and debate we begin to depart from from this triangle [Music] oh

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: UZSMIGvz8IQ (https://youtu.be/UZSMIGvz8IQ) ===

I've tried to step outside the box of oncology cancer even within certainty for patients but also for doctors can be yourself in closing box you it's like being into inside a tunnel you enter the tunnel of one end and the other you come out of the tunnel on the other end and you can't see anything else it's the vision is very restricted I've tried to step outside the town take an exit and try to remind people that this is part of a much larger story

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: VSy8KVXRgKM (https://youtu.be/VSy8KVXRgKM) ===

in principle gene-editing means it just like you can go into a word processor and erase a word from what you've written and you can change that word for a different word the technologies are beginning to allow us to go into a cell change its internal code or vocabulary which would be its DNA in its genome and answering to for a human cell and you can switch out the word change the word with certain caveats who should we intervene on what are the limits who are who gets to decide what normalcy versus abnormal she is who gets to decide whether someone is you know what what suffering is you could give an example of for instance of it let's see a terrifying lethal disease which you could detect in an embryo before implanting it and decide that that's not the embryo that you want to implant but that depends on you and I saying that's a terrifying lethal disease and that's a decision that you and I need to make them I really mean society needs to make in consensus so it's a time to emphasize that idea that we're making decisions like this really this issue came to a head when researchers in China decided to take non-viable human embryos and decided to try to attempt changing a disease linked gene and that non-viable human embryo set it they were important it's important to note that they were non viable in the long run but it's also important to note but that they were indeed human embryos or very early human embryos and that the proof of principle experiment was launched so it's it's created a worldwide set of questions about what we can and cannot do with the human genome the wrote eugenics was was paved with the best intentions and it was a series of you can almost see the world tipping towards horror step by step by step you know it seemed like one iterative step didn't seem that much and yet as you accumulated all of these very soon you went from you know in Nazi Germany in particular starting with trying to eliminate or sterilize those who were somehow physically different from from others all the way including folks who were deaf folks who had various neurological diseases and then sort of marched inexorably towards other forms of identity including obviously Jews Gypsies homosexuals and so forth so it's worthwhile remembering that that progression that occurred in the 1930s was was perceived by the citizens at that time as part of a progression it was not as if you know all of a sudden someone woke up there was a kind of glacial silence - the progression of eugenics in Nazi Germany and in fact there was a glacial silence from the United States about what was going on in Nazi Germany if anything you know folks in the United States applauded the eugenicist indices applauded the efforts of Nazis of Nazi scientists in their attempts to cleanse the cleanse their populations of all sorts of evil and emancipate themselves so it's incredibly important to remember that history when we step as we are going to as we're stepping towards the genetic modification of human embryos or even to some extent the genetic modification of other animals or plants we have to remember that it seems as if there's a progression but all of a sudden by the time from the beginning to the end you may land up in a very different place it's it's it's important also not to throw as we enter new genetic technologies not to throw the baby out with the the genetic bathwater I mean it's important to remember that there's that our ability to manipulate genes can be very powerful it has been very powerful

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: VvvsyoFtP_c (https://youtu.be/VvvsyoFtP_c) ===

- Good afternoon and welcome. I'm Carol Christ. I'm the Chancellor of Berkeley and it's a delight to welcome you to this event this afternoon. You're here to hear a
conversation which has the title The Future of Humans, Gene Editing and the Unthinkable
Power to Control Evolution. That title, to me, recalled
the 200th anniversary of the publication of Mary
Shelley's Frankenstein in 1818. Frankenstein is the prototypical
text of the human ability to create new life, and it's
really a prescient text, particularly at the moment
when scientists have the power to manipulate the blueprint of life. This is a bold topic, and
a perfect way to kick off Berkeley's sesquicentennial, which we're celebrating with
the official motto Fiat Lux, or Let There Be Light. This motto inscribed
in the university seal and on the five-pointed
star that adorns Sather Gate reminds us that it's our
duty to create new knowledge and bring it to light, to illuminate solutions for
the world's greatest problems, and find solutions for
bettering the human condition. As we celebrate 150 years
of light at Berkeley, and we anticipate 150 years
of light in the future, the discovery of CRISPR
by Jennifer Doudna, and the global impact that this will have comes immediately to mind. Few breakthroughs in science have had the kind of sweeping, immediate
impact that CRISPR has, bringing monumental change to the way scientists approach key questions of life, and holding unlimited
promise for the future. It's exhilarating to imagine
the transformations we'll see as the result of this
technology in the coming years. Our special guest Dr.
Mukherjee is an oncologist at Columbia University
and Pulitzer Prize winner for his book, The Emperor of All Maladies, A Biography of Cancer. His most recent book The
Gene and Intimate History chronicles the history of the gene and what becomes of humanity when we can read and edit
our own genetic information. A Rhodes scholar, he has earned degrees from Stanford University,
the University of Oxford, and Harvard Medical School. Dr. Jennifer Doudna has been a member of the Berkeley faculty since 2002, and is the founding executive director of the Innovative Genomics Institute, a joint endeavor of UC Berkeley and UCSF, and I'd like particularly to welcome UCSF's Chancellor Sam
Hawgood to this program. (audience applauds) Since her days as a
graduate student and postdoc at Harvard and the University of Colorado, Jennifer has always been
interested in structural biology and the biochemistry of RNA. In 2012, she and her colleague
Emmanuelle Charpentier discovered CRISPR, and
that's a game changer. It holds potential to
cure genetic diseases, overcome climate change, and
address global food security, among many other
transformational applications. Dr. Doudna's contributions,
her light, are significant and worthy of celebration. Please welcome Jennifer
Doudna and Dr. Mukherjee. (audience applauds) - Well, thank you, Chancellor Christ, for that very warm introduction, and thank you to all of
you for coming today. We're really looking forward
to this conversation. We will talk for about 45 minutes and then we'd like to open
up the floor to questions to answer thoughts and ideas and give you a chance
to share those with us. I'd like to start off by pointing out that humanity has always had
a desire for improvement. Cars, improved transportation. Penicillin, improved health. The internet improved the
spread of information, or misinformation, in some cases. Now it appears that we're
entering a new stage of improvement, artificial intelligence, to improve efficiency. Self-driving cars to improve safety, and the improvement of our own bodies. So we have to truly ask
ourselves, what are we improving? Do we need improving? And even, what is improvement? So gene editing technologies
and cancer therapies are forcing us to look at these questions and also to look at ourselves. Cancer, for example, is a natural
and common cause of death. Genetic diseases are too numerous to count and a natural result of our being human. A new wave of biomedical
advances are giving us the ability to push back cancer
and erase genetic diseases, but at what cost? So I'd like to start this
conversation by asking you, Dr. Mukherjee, are we transitioning from natural to unnatural, or is this just the next
step in human evolution? - So, again, I think the
question of what natural and unnatural is or are has
been really brought about in the last decade or so
in a way with an urgency that really didn't exist before. Oscar Wilde famously said, "Being natural is sometimes just a pose." And the question is, how are we posing? What pose are we on? I do think that the
capacity to change something as elemental as our own DNA,
even if it's in somatic cells, certainly in stem cells and
certainly in embryonic cells, really raises the question
about what we're doing with our own evolution. These are unprecedented technologies because they allow us to hold
the horns of our own destiny in some ways, even though
we understand destiny is more than DNA, but a powerful element
of destiny is in DNA. You gave the example of
cancer and genetic diseases. So really the question of what is natural and what is unnatural,
the boundaries, I think, have been redrawn or
are being redrawn today. My own thoughts about this, really, are the thoughts of a physician. That's my brain. I have a physician's brain. And that is that as we do this, as we enter this arena
of new technologies, it seems to me that there are, and I talk a little bit
about this in The Gene, that there are a triangle of ideas, which we should keep in focus. The first one is when we intervene, when we're intervening on human genetics, is there extraordinary suffering involved? You and I can then open
up a debate saying, well, what is extraordinary suffering? But at least there's a sense, there's a hard line that we draw and say that when we move forward that that remains a
certain line in the sand, that we invade on what is
natural versus unnatural only when we think that there's extraordinary
suffering involved. In a second I'll tell
you that there are people who don't buy this argument. We'll talk about that in a second, but that's one line of the triangle. The second line of the triangle
is loosely I've called it, in the book, I've called it penetrance. The idea is, we can call it certainty, that when we make genetic changes, when we do tamper with evolution, particularly with our own evolution, that we have a strong degree of certainty that there's a powerful relationship between the gene and the phenotype, or the ultimate manifestation
that's involved. So things that we're uncertain about, things that have effects
that we don't understand, cascading effects, pleiotropic effects, we probably should avoid since, obviously, we don't want to intervene on things that we cannot ultimately control. And the third line of the triangle is, I've called it, justifiable choice. People have used different words for it, and that is that when we intervene between what is unnatural
and what is natural, that the intervention
bears some justification, that we can justify it, and that it's not done by state mandate, that individual choice is involved. People are able to do it or
not able as they should choose. Now, it doesn't take an
extraordinary complicated bit of thinking to realize that each of these is fuzzy territory. Who defines extraordinary suffering? Who mandates choice? If our cultures push us towards
manipulating our children, is that really a choice? Even if it's a passive choice, does it really become a choice? - [Jennifer] And, by the
way, different cultures might make different choices. - For instance, exactly, and you know better than anyone else, the rules that apply for
interventions on embryos in China are not the rules that
apply for intervention in the United States and other cultures. So I fully understand this
is complicated territory, but as we move forward, if
we don't draw some stakes, this is going to become, I think, even more complicated than it is. So it is absolutely true
that we're passing a boundary between the natural and the unnatural. Those terms were never easily defined, never easily definable, but the technologies are
forcing us to define them. And my argument is that we should use a kind of more sympathetic
way, humanistic way, to try to breach those boundaries. What do you think? In fact, some of these
recommendations have been made. You've been on panels that
made these recommendations for intervention with human embryos. What are your thoughts about
the breaching of the natural? - Well, while you were
talking, I was thinking that we had a meeting in
2015 in the Napa Valley that was the first
meeting that was organized by the Innovative Genomics
Institute and UCSF to think about the ethical
and societal implications of human genome editing. And there was a fairly
small group of people. We had two of the scientists
who'd been involved in the 1970s discussions in Asilomar about the ethics of molecular cloning, Paul Berg and David Baltimore. And even in that group of scientists, there was a very active
discussion around the table, heated at times. People really disagreeing
and debating about, in particular, human embryo editing, so making changes that
would become inherited in future generations, and what would be the
implications of that. And at one point, somebody
leaned across the table and said, wait a minute. There might come a moment
when we will consider it unethical not to do that,
at least for certain kinds. And it's like you're saying, if there's severe suffering
due to genetic disease, this might, in the future, be something that we would
societally agree should proceed. You know it's interesting for me, because I have found that my own views have been evolving over time. - [Dr. Mukherjee] Yes,
you've written about this. So tell us about the evolution. - Yeah, I guess I started
off, when I first started thinking about the
implications of gene editing back in sort of the
early days of this work, which was actually only
a few years ago now, and started thinking about this. I felt initially very
opposed to using gene editing in embryos, not necessarily forever, but I certainly felt
that the time wasn't now to proceed to do that. And why did I think that? Well, it seemed to me,
it seemed unnatural. It seemed something that
you were sort of messing with something that maybe
you shouldn't mess with, and as a scientist, I also
appreciate that in many cases, a gene, and you know this
better than anyone probably, but a gene that we think
has a certain function might only play that role
in a particular context of other genes. So how can we ever really
be sure that something we're altering might not
have unintended consequences? And that would have consequences
in not only a person, but all of their kids,
and their kids' kids, and it seemed kind of a profound thing. But what's happened over
the last few years for me, and for those of you that don't know me, so I'm a biochemist and I've always done very
fundamental research. So unlike you, Sid, I've
always just been working on molecules rather
than patients or people. But what's happened
over the last few years is I've been coming into
increasing contact with people that have genetic disease, either themselves or in their families. I recently got an email, and this is very typical
for me these days, but I got an email from
a woman who explained that her beautiful, young
boy has a genetic disease that had just been diagnosed, and she sent me a picture
of this little baby in his little carrier. He's cute, and it just broke my heart. It really broke my heart and
I guess I just found myself recognizing that when
there is severe suffering and we have an opportunity to change that, it may be worth doing. - Well, you know, one line
that philosophers have tried to draw is between
emancipation and enhancement, and they have tried to draw a strong line. Of course, in real practice,
once you practice medicine, those lines also become fuzzy. What is emancipation for one person can be enhancement for the other. The extremes are quite obvious. It's very easy to think about extremes. Manipulating genes for cosmetic purposes seems very obviously far outside the realm of what we want to do, but on the other hand,
there are certainly examples where the conflicts are more real. The question that occurs to me, I'm gonna frame the question, and then maybe subdivide it a little bit. One question that occurred to me while I was thinking about
this is we're always, in medicine, straddling the line between treating and curing. But now we are beginning
to think about altering DNA as a mechanism or a
means to treat and cure. Is that reasonable? And maybe you can speak
about it in three categories, and divide it up as you wish, but it seems to me that there
are three broad categories. Number one is editing
genes of other organisms, very widely speaking,
so all other organisms. That's a little bit like saying humans and all other organisms, but really, imagine the
question of editing genes in other organisms, in
crops and plants and pests. The second is somatic gene editing, so particularly things
like, I'm a transplanter, so in stem cells, blood stem cells, and other kinds of stem cells. And the third, of course, is gene editing in either sperm or eggs or embryos. So tell us about what you
think the prospects are in these three categories,
and is it reasonable? What is reasonable and what's unreasonable maybe in the three categories? Or pick one of them which
is most provocative for you. - Well, I think you're
touching on an important point, and that is that gene
editing is used now widely sort of across the biosphere,
I guess you could say. It's really being used in plants, animals. It's enhancing the pace of research. It's opening up organisms
for study that in the past really could not be investigated
at the genetic level. So it's a very exciting
time, really, as a biologist, I think, to be living in the midst of this transformational
opportunity with new techologies. And it's not just gene editing. It's other things, too, of
course, that are converging to give us ways that we
can manipulate organisms that were unthinkable in the recent past. So just having the ability
to sequence the entire genome and all the DNA in the cell of an organism and start understanding
what that code means, how it dictates what an organism
becomes is really profound. So just to quickly touch
on those three areas. So if we think about using
gene editing in organisms other than humans, clearly
this is going to have a big impact on humanity, right? Because it'll allow us to
change plants, for example, to be more nutritious, or
to grow in environments where they otherwise wouldn't thrive. - [Dr. Mukherjee] Mosquitoes. - Get rid of mosquitoes, maybe. Maybe, or at least control
spread of disease by insects. In terms of editing what you
referred to as somatic cells, and just so that everyone's
on the same page with that, that term just means
that we're editing cells that are not germline cells, meaning they're not cells that
are eggs or sperm or embryos. So they don't cause heritable changes in future generations of organisms, but this could still
be incredibly impactful for the clinical
application of gene editing, and the type of research
that you do, for example, being able to edit,
let's say, immune cells so that they're more
effective at targeting cancer would be amazing if we can do that. Editing blood cells so
they no longer carry the disease-causing gene
for sickle cell anemia would be incredible. And there's many, many
other examples like that. Then the third category is the one that is more kind of ethically
fraught, or could be, which is, should it be okay or is it okay to make changes in the germline of humans. Believe me, scientists
are already doing this in the germlines of
other kinds of organisms quite routinely, but in humans, not yet. And should we go there? And I personally think
that it's going to happen and it's partly gonna
happen because of the fact that different cultures view
this question differently, and I think we're seeing
already in the scientific world that the pace of research, at
least, on human embryo editing is proceeding differently
in different countries. - So, just a quick
follow-up on that question, and then we can move on. How long 'til the first transgenic human? - Um, oh dear, I'm on the spot here. (audience laughs) I don't know, is the short answer. I think that, again, so
that everyone out there sort of understands what's happening. I mean, we saw, just
in the last six months, there have been two very
prominent publications in scientific journals from
highly respected research labs, one here in the United States, and one in the United
Kingdom, who both showed that you could use gene
editing in viable human embryos to change, to alter the genome, to make a very precise change to a particular gene in these embryos. - [Dr. Mukherjee] There's
been some question about-- - There's been questions about the details of how that's working, but I think the overarching
thing that I take from that is that this research is proceeding, and I think the pace will accelerate. I recently heard from a colleague in China who is coming to visit me
here at Berkeley next week who wants to give me an
update on his own research in human embryos. So it's moving forward. I can't tell you when I
think it'll be actually used to create a CRISPR baby, for example, but I think we're seeing
steady progression in that direction. - I mean, just to give you one example, I work with blood stem
cells and immune cells. That's mostly why I'm a
biologist, leukemia doctor. As of last week, we were just
talking about this earlier on, as of last week, in cord blood stem cells, we are getting gene editing successfully in 90% of the stem cells. In fact, we've gotten to a
place where we're wondering if we should even sort these cells because the efficiency of sorting is getting to the efficiency of editing. So basically I suspect
that the blood system is open for business. The entire blood system
is open for business. There's many, many questions,
off target effects, whether we will get weird
leukemias that arise because we've made an
edit in the wrong place, but essentially speaking, it's staggering. We couldn't do this six months ago. - So this is a very important point. In the field of this technology and all the things that
are being done with it are moving forward incredibly quickly. And one of the things
that's been on my mind is how do we explain
to people that are not down in the weeds doing the
work, working in the clinic or working in the laboratory? How do we explain what's happening? Because I think we appreciate
that this is ultimately going to affect everyone's life, and I think that one of the ways that people learn about science, they learn about technology,
is actually through the media, through Hollywood,
through books, of course, and through fiction and nonfiction, but they start to
understand what's happening. We're seeing this, of course,
with artificial intelligence has been all over the media lately, and self-driving cars and things, and a little bit genome
editing is creeping in there. So I wanted to ask you what you think Hollywood has done well and
what have they done poorly? And how do we work with people
that like to tell stories and they do that for a
business and professionally, and work with them to get science right? - Well, it's always a struggle. One of the strangest
experiences of my life was being a small consultant on Logan. (audience laughs) It's true. If you were to sit
through the final credits, I have a small, and
that's because, I mean, I think I'm speaking correctly. I barely enter particularly
the Hollywood world. But I was approached by a
friend of a friend of a friend who showed me the script, and I said, well, you know the script is really fundamentally
about a dystopic vision of what happens when human
beings start reaching for certain kinds of perfection. It pushes towards the enhancement debate away from the emancipation debate. And my only thought about it was I thought it's not dystopic enough. (Jennifer laughs) There's a moment in that film, which actually I watched
a very early version of, when you suddenly realize, there's a moment in which the characters are walking through a
corn field or something, and you suddenly realize that
the entirety of the world has now been transformed for human benefit because the corn is
growing 10 times as high. I think that was my input in the film. I said make it more dystopic. But just to remind ourselves that I think the media has
a big responsibility here. I think, again, it would
be very helpful for us from the media to get a
road map of what the pulse of public thinking about this is. Because the media reflects
back to a large extent what a much larger public
view of all of this is. That would be what's helpful. Not to set guidelines, not to tell us about the science often, but to tell us, and that's what I think is
important about the films. The film may get the science wrong. They may get it too far
off, et cetera, et cetera, but what they often get
right is they get the pulse of what people's fears are. What are they afraid of the most? What are the concerns? - [Jennifer] Or what
are they excited about? - What are they excited about? A film like, I'm just thinking
off the top of my head, a film like Lorenzo's
Oil is a great example. We could disagree about the science. We know that it's very complicated. People had disagreements, agreements, but what it got right very
much was the obsessive hunting of a parent for a cure for their child. That's what it gets very right. And as long as the pulse
is right, it reminds us, it keeps us, I think, as
physicians, as scientists, honest about what we're writing about. What are the concerns? Sure, we're talking about
powerful technologies. Who's gonna draw the limits? How are we going to move forward? And I think that's what ultimately helps. In some ways, Hollywood gets it right when its moral compass is right, when it sets our moral compass right. Hollywood gets it wrong
when it tries to tell us about science, I suppose, in a way that doesn't make any realistic sense. - So for me, I thought
the movie The Martian was a great film that
really kind of captured the excitement of an adventure and the challenges that
one might imagine happening if you tried to actually survive on Mars. And it's sort of just beyond
where we think we are right now in terms of technologies, but I noticed that it captured
a lot of people's attention and imagination. I have a teenage son and just hearing his chatting
about this with his friends. You could just kind of sense this buzz. So I think films like that are great because they actually make
people think about science. They think about the opportunities. If we develop technologies,
that might allow us to explore our solar system in ways that we haven't been able to. - [Dr. Mukherjee] Well,
sometime in the next few years, there's gonna be a fictionalized version of a Jennifer Doudna movie. (audience laughs) - Oh dear. Horrifying thought. - What would you like to
ensure is in that film? - Is in or is not in? (laughs) - Tell us both, tell us both. Make it exciting. - Again, I guess, to me, I
like it when films capture the passion that somebody
has for work they're doing. The struggles. Students now will often ask me, I feel almost a little bit embarrassed because I think they think
that I've reached some pedestal or something and I don't think
of myself that way at all. I think of myself growing up in this little rural town in Hawaii and struggling through
general chemistry in college and trying to figure out,
can I really be a scientist? I think a movie to be true,
if it wants to be true, and maybe it doesn't, but if it really wanted
to capture anything that's true about me, it would
have to show those struggles. And it would have to show, again, it's back to the human spirit. All of us, I think, we have
passions for certain things and that's one of the
things you learn in college is you kind of learn about yourself and what you find exciting. For me, it was about
realizing I was just a person that loved to think about molecules. I loved to think about how life works at the level of molecules. But it hasn't been a straight path at all and I would definitely want
a story to capture that. - A lot has been written
about the initial series of conversations that you had with Emmanuelle at the start of this. Actually, I've never read
about the kind of moment. Was there a moment when
things crystallized for you? - Well, I think there
have been a few of those. When I think back on--
- Pick one. - Pick one, okay. (audience laughs) Well, probably I should
pick the first one, then, which is really when I met her and we met at a meeting in 2011. It was a meeting I almost didn't go to because it was a meeting
for microbiologists, which is certainly not me, and I was busy and I was
teaching here at Berkeley and I was juggling all the
usual things that we juggle. I almost canceled it,
but then I decided to go, and it's good that I did
because that's where I met Emmanuelle Charpentier, and
she is a microbiologist, so she had a legitimate
reason to be there. When we met at this meeting, we met there because we were both
working on what at the time was a very obscure area of biology, namely understanding how
bacteria fight viral infection using a system called CRISPR. It's an adaptive immune
system in bacteria. So we were both giving
talks at this little session at this meeting and afterwards
we went out to lunch, and we started chatting and
we started walking around the old cobblestone streets
of old San Juan, Puerto Rico, and in that conversation, we talked about starting a collaboration to
work together to figure out the function of one
protein, just one protein, that's part of this immune
system, a protein called Cas9. It was a project that really
brought together expertise from her lab as a microbiologist
and my lab as a biochemist, and I do remember feeling
a real sense of the hairs on my neck standing up
because I could sense that there was something very
exciting about this project. In some ways, the rest of
it kind of flows from that. - So I can tell you my
story about that story is that I heard about, from
all people in the world, I heard about your early
results from Paul Berg. I went to Stanford for another visit. I have collaborators there. I trained with Paul, and
Paul, as you very much know, was among the many people
who discovered how to clone, make recombinant DNA,
stitch two pieces of DNA from two foreign organisms together, and was instrumental in
the Asilomar meeting, which was an important
milestone in all of this. Once in a while, since
becoming a physician and a scientist myself,
I'd go back to Stanford, and I would always have lunch with Paul. And these were very precious to me. He's now 90 years old. This was about when he
was 87 or something, and he told me, you know,
I just heard a seminar from someone and she talked
about an enzyme that allows you to modify DNA in a site-specific manner. And I thought, my God, the
old man has finally lost it. (audience laughs) I said, wow. Because it was a little unfathomable. People had been thinking
about this for a long time and it was unfathomable and, of course, the fact
that it was borrowed back from (mumbles). Just to move the conversation along, flipping over the question of Hollywood is a very pertinent
political question today, which is, we are living in times where the amount of distrust
for science is phenomenal and I have to tell people constantly that science is not fake news, that there's a strong line
between one and the other. Evolution is not fake news. Bacterial evolution is not fake news. So what do we do about this moment? Do we have a responsibility? We have really an unprecedented
moment in human history, in American history, a country
that grew to some extent politically out of
scientists and engineers. I'm an immigrant, so the
history of this country is a country that grew out of
the aspirations of humanists, scientists, and engineers. What do we do about this today? What are you doing, Jennifer? How does the world look to you? - I'm very concerned about this. I think it's a big challenge. I think we have to start by encouraging scientists
everywhere to get out of the lab at some level and engage in conversation. We have to talk about science. We need to bring science
back into the discussions that we have at cocktail
parties and things like that. I think that books like
your books are doing a lot. I think you're very
good at telling stories that are very human and that
people can identify with, so they don't necessarily think about you, I mean, hopefully they think
about you as a scientist, but they read the book because
it's really interesting. It's really engaging, right? It's not a textbook. It's something that is very human. I think the more that we can do that and use language to
describe scientific ideas that isn't filled with acronyms and doesn't sound like a foreign language, but we try to really just explain ideas. Because I think, in the
end, a lot of the ideas that we're having and thinking about are not really complicated. They're not. It's just maybe the details are, but I think the concepts
and ideas are not, and this is something that
we just have to work at more than I think we have
certainly in my lifetime as a professional scientist. How would you answer that? - I can't agree more. I think what I worry most about is that there's a dispiriting
quality for young students, for my students. There's a dispiriting
quality in all of this, and the dispiriting
quality lasts generations. It carries through. And I think this is an especial time. I'm not gonna say it's not
go hug a scientist day, but I think there's an especial time when we need to remind
ourselves that the contributions of science to this debate. I mean, for instance,
look at climate change. Before we have arguments and
conversations, we need data. Data comes from laboratories, from scientists who've
spent time gathering it. We need to respect that idea that we can't enter these
debates without data. So just be careful, be
cognizant of the fact that the scientists in
your life around you are dispirited and try to encourage them. It might be philanthrophically,
it might not be. It might be personally,
but it's a tough time for the graduate students
and the postdocs in my lab. I don't know if you're
feeling that as well. - So has your work and
especially maybe your writing, has that led you to have
conversations and interactions with new groups of people
that have sort of taken you in new directions? - Well, certainly politically, yes. As you know, my first book
on the the history of cancer was well read, but then Ken Burns made
a documentary out of it. The Gene is also going to be made into a documentary by Ken Burns. You should probably not tweet that until it's formally announced. (audience laughs) - [Jennifer] No tweeting. - It'll be announced in a week or two. But we're in the middle of filming. In fact, we filmed you, Jennifer. And so I think that the transition
into serious documentary, these are three hours, or
in the case of Emperor, six hour documentaries, allowed us to reach a group of people. I think one of the most
interesting conversations I've had recently is
with people who work on education for children. How do you take textbooks, which are becoming more and
more outdated in some ways, how do you convert that
into education for children? How do you make it possible to put that on the web to some extent, but supplement that with
books that are more readable? And that's an issue that
I'm very interested in. How do you make a kind of
simultaneous storytelling as well as didactic education
for AP, for instance, which is much more accessible, and doesn't remain boring or textbook? - I think kids are actually
a great way in, too. I had this great experience
a couple of years ago. My son was in seventh grade at the time and he was just taking a class. They were teaching the kids about DNA and so the teacher
asked me if I would come and talk to the kids a
little bit about my work. So I went to the school
and we did it after school, so it was just voluntary. We just asked the kids
who would like to do it and my first shock was
I walked into this room thinking there might be two, three kids. There were 20 kids there,
and 15 of them were girls. It was cool, yeah. The other thing was, so I
thought, how am I gonna get these 12 year olds
interested in what I do? So I thought, well, I'll
take this 3D printed model that I have of the Cas9 protein. It was actually made by Jacob Corn, who's here in the audience, here at the Innovative Genomics Institute. It's printed on a 3D printer, but it's based on an actual
crystallographic structure of the Cas9 protein, which is the scissors that cuts the DNA and the
RNA molecule that programs it to find and cut a
particular sequence of DNA. That's what makes it a powerful tool, and then the DNA itself getting cut. So I took this model. It's about this big. It's about the size of a football or so. I took it in. The model was designed
by Jacob very nicely so that it can be pulled apart. You can actually pull the DNA out. - [Dr. Mukherjee] You
should've brought it. - You can see where the DNA got cut. I should have brought
it, would've been fun. But I took it to the kids and I thought, well, I won't
actually take it apart. I won't show them actually
how the DNA gets cut 'cause that might just be
too complicated for the kids. So I had this model, but
it's brightly colored and it looks kinda cool. So the kids said, well,
can you pass it around? So I started passing this thing around and I was describing it to them. Within five seconds, of
course, they had pulled, they're like, oh, cool, the DNA comes out. Hey, we can pop this piece off. You know, they were dissembling it and they were looking at it
and they were figuring it out, and they were asking tons of questions. Actually, they asked a number of really interesting ethical questions. I think one of the kids
at that little meeting asked me about the ethics, not
really using that language, but asked me, what does this
mean for changing embryos, humans, and doesn't that
mean that you could decide to make somebody taller or smarter or wow? Just kind of grappling. You could see the thought process going. So I really think that the more that we can reach out to kids because kids are natural scientists. They love questions. And the more that we can do
that and get them engaged, they don't think about science as a thing. It's something that's interesting that's entered their world. - [Dr. Mukherjee] Are we
getting ready for questions? - We want to turn it over to
questions from the audience, but before we do that, I just
want to cover one more thing with you, Sid, and that
is, I would love to hear the motivation that you had
for writing your first book. Because I think, for me,
The Emperor of All Maladies, your first book about cancer,
it really is a profound work. It's very, in some ways, very depressing, but it's also incredibly
interesting to look at the history of how humans have grappled with this really intractable disease. I'd love to hear what
motivated you to do it, what was most surprising
to you about that process, and was it fun? Was it hard? Tell us about that. - So I had never thought
I would write a book. I was trained as a physician scientist, very nose to the ground, and The Emperor of All
Maladies really grew out of a patient's question, and
the patient's question was, she was in the middle of
chemotherapy for sarcoma, and she said, why are we doing
this and where are we going? And it seemed to me just astonishing that here was this disease
that has occupied our culture. Cancer has become more than a disease. It is a metaphor. It is an allegory. People use it to describe states of mind. Very few illnesses in
human history have ascended to this kind of space in human culture. And yet we had no real history, we had no book about it in the same sense. People had written about
cancer in a thousand ways. There were a million textbooks on it. So that was really the
beginning of that book. I started as a fellow and during the day, I
would be in the clinic and in the evenings, I would write. It was just a journal to start with and it grew and grew and grew, and at some point of time, I decided that I would
show it to a publisher. Someone said to me, you know
there are gonna be two readers for that book, your mother and you? (audience laughs) 600 pages on cancer. When it was first delivered, someone said it was
like a phone directory, from in the days when there
used to be phone directories, a phone directory from hell. (audience laughs) it had a black cover. In the back, in white, it
had cancer written on it, and it was 1,800 pages long. It had cut down to 600 pages. So that's how I started. That was my first book. - Fascinating, yeah. (laughs) Sounds hard, working in
the clinic during the day and writing at night. Wow, I'm amazed that you could do that. And your second book? So, well received as well. Many people have read The
Gene that I've run into just sort of randomly. But also you encountered some
criticisms about the book. Tell us about that experience. - So, again, it's the
experience of distilling very complex science to simple. You can't satisfy everyone. The simplification is
absolutely necessary. Again, it was delivered
at 1,800-odd pages. It had to be cut down to 600 and I have to do most of the cutting. So things get left on the floor. Things have to be cut off
and left on the floor. So you have to have a
radical simplification in many places and scientists
don't like being simplified. They don't like their
work being simplified, but in order to communicate
with a much wider audience, you have to take away terminology, take away even people. Too many names becomes word salad. Readers get switched off. If you use too much terminology,
people get switched off. So that's one. So there's the criticisms
of omission is one area. One of the controversial
parts the book involved questions like race and IQ. I really thought that for
this book, it was odd. This was long before these questions had become very central. So there's a chapter on
race and a chapter on IQ, both of which were read by
people I respected in the field. Actually, Marcus Feldman over at Stanford, who you know very well,
was a very important person who read the chapter on race. The chapter on IQ was also
read by many, many people in the psychiatric community. I really felt that those
were important to put in. In retrospect, I feel even more strongly that they were important to put in, but there are disagreements about some of these fundamental questions. So it's part of the territory. - [Jennifer] Yeah, absolutely. - So maybe I'll continue this, since we're speaking
about books and words. You know, I'm very sensitive
to the idea of words around, words like war on
cancer, battle on cancer. Some people, some patients don't like it. One woman famously said to
me, you go fight the war. This is not a word that I want to own. Others want to own that word. It somehow helps. The idea of them fighting something in their own bodies helps them. What do you feel about
the word gene editing? Tell us what the various words have been and what did you coin yourself? What do you say yourself
when you use these words? Genetic surgery has been
used to describe this. What's your sense of any of this? - Yeah, I think we've seen, I've noticed an interesting evolution in
language around gene editing. So it started off as people
would pretty much universally call it genome engineering, right? Genome engineering. Obviously CRISPR was not the
first way to modify genomes. There were earlier
technologies for doing this, and they really were
engineering in the sense that you actually had to
engineer proteins individually to make targeted changes to DNA in cells, and that involved a lot of work and a lot of engineering in the lab, engineering of proteins. When CRISPR came along, initially the same
language was applied to it, but what's happened, and
this wasn't me at all. This just sort of happened
organically, I think, in the field, is that people began to adopt the language gene editing. Why? Well, I think it's because
it sort of reflects the maybe simpler nature
of this technology in the sense that it doesn't
require a lot of engineering for this tool to be employed in-- - [Dr. Mukherjee] When did
you hear that phrase first, Jennifer? - Gene editing?
- Gene editing, yeah. - Gene editing. I think it started sometime
back around the time that we had the first international
conference in Washington at the end of 2015 on gene editing, and I think we used that
language for that meeting. Maybe at some level, that
started to permeate the language that was used to describe
it in other contexts. But I started to ask people,
people like George Church, when do you use editing and
when do you use engineering? And I think it was George that said, well, I really think that the
new ways of modifying genes are much more like
editing than engineering because we don't have to
engineer anything to do this. We can just use the tool. - Right, and do you think, moving forward, this term will stick? Is it easy for you now to use this? Do you find there's a facility with it? - I think so. I mean, I'm curious to know,
and I try to ask this question of people that are not scientists, ask them how they react to that. What does that mean to you
when someone says gene editing? Does that mean anything
or is it just opaque? But I think it's fairly
descriptive of what it is that we're really doing. Because if you think about
it, it's really a tool, really a technology that's
all about rewriting DNA. We've been able to synthesize DNA. So we can write it, we can erase it, we can cut and paste it,
and now we can rewrite it. So I think it really is sort of analogous to having a text editor that you're using on the genetic code. - One of the astonishing things, I don't know how many people have worked with the CRISPR-Cas9 system. One of the astonishing things
as a user in human biology is how simple it is. It is very, very simple, and maybe that's part of the captured in this idea of gene editing. It seems to me, one thought I
had is that for a long time, I struggled with it to figure
out how it would help us therapeutically in cancer. Of course, to elucidate targets in cancer, to genetically manipulate cancer cells, it's really, really simplified, but could we use this
therapeutically in cancer? And I struggled with that for awhile, and, of course, the
answer has now come to us. You can't necessarily
use it in cancer cells because evolution is working against you. You have to essentially get it, we think, in 100% of the cancer cells. Otherwise, the ones that have
not been edited will evolve and take over. Maybe you can do it over and over again, but the fact that the immune system has now become quite clearly
one of the mechanisms of controlling cancer, and immune cells, you
can manipulate and edit, and thereby reintroduce them. So it's really given us a powerful way to think about cancer, not from the standpoint of cancer itself, but from the microenvironment
around cancer. Couple of questions that arise. One is it seems to me that
editing sperm and eggs, or sperm and egg making
cells, is going to be easier than doing it in the entire embryo. What do you think are
the prospects of that and is that something, do you
see yourself, your own lab, ever moving in that direction? Making edited human sperm and eggs? - So I think you're absolutely right, and my disclaimer is that I'm not a human developmental
biologist by any stretch, but I think that from what
I've come to understand from talking to people that
are experts in this area, I think that this is absolutely coming, that it's going to be possible, and it's gonna obviate the
question of editing human embryos because you won't need to.
- Which is much harder. - Right, you won't need to. You'll edit the sperm and eggs. And would I ever do this in my own lab? No. (laughs) Not for any reason other than that's not the kind of
biologist that I am. That's not the kind of
expertise that I have. But I think that you're right that in terms of thinking
about future clinical impacts, this is an area of very active development where there's likely to be real advances. - One piece of conversation
we were having earlier, which is an important thread to pick up, is that it seems that a
lot of the conversations have focused around gene editing, but we're also seeing the
simultaneous development of other technologies. You mentioned one of them,
embryology, stem cell biology, and the third one is artificial
intelligence, deep learning. I have a couple of thoughts about deep learning and genetics, particularly from the
standpoint of cancer, but I'd love to hear
your thoughts as well. One thing that occurred to me
was deep learning is beginning to elucidate things about our genome that I did not think possible before. I read this fascinating study of early cardiovascular disease. So if you take cardiovascular disease and you ask the question, how many patients with
early cardiovascular disease can be explained by single gene mutations? And this is how we grew up as biologists. We thought about mutation in
a gene affecting a pathway, thereby causing the change
that leads to a disease. Very classical genetic model of thinking. And cardiovascular disease,
familial hypercholesterolemia, you get elevated cholesterol. You have all sorts of problems. This study looked at
if you take 100 people, only two of them, two of
those 100, can be explained by these sort of powerful
single gene mutations that will increase risk. The question is, what about the rest? What about the other 98? And for a long time, we
didn't really know how to solve that problem. My colleagues in complex
genomics tell me now that deep learning is beginning to solve these kinds of problems,
that, in fact, it turns out that complex human phenotype
can often be explained by what I would call not shove effects. So those single genes were like shoves. They would push you
strongly in one direction. But by nudge effects. Often hundreds or often even
thousands of gene variants that nudge you towards, you know, have small effect
in and of themselves, but as a network, or maybe in the context, move you even a little
bit, even slightly towards your ultimately. So the question really arises
is that if that's going to be the case with most human diseases, does gene editing help with nudge effects? Can you imagine ways or would
it only help with shove genes? Are we gonna reach some
kind of biological limit, as it were, to the capacity
to manipulate human phenotype? It's a complicated question. So I don't know what your
thoughts about that are. - Well, I have two thoughts about that. I mean, one is that I think that CRISPR and gene editing technologies
that are coming from that are going to help with nudge effects in the sense that they're
gonna help us uncover all the genes that are in those networks, and that's already happening. So there's lots and
lots of laboratories now that are using gene
editing, not in the clinic, but they're using it to understand the genetics of human disease. And they're doing it both in
human cells and organoids, which are cultured bits of organs that you can grow in the lab, as well as in animal models of disease. So I think that's gonna
be a very powerful way. And frankly, I totally agree
with what you're saying about using artificial
intelligence or machine learning to help us understand those networks 'cause they're often complicated and you have to really
understand all the players that might be contributing
to a particular trait, for example. But the other way that I
think that gene editing will potentially have an impact
clinically in the future, and we're not there today, but I think the technology
is going in that direction, is being able to edit or
modify multiple genes at once. - [Dr. Mukherjee] What's up with that? - Well, sometimes these genes are found in very disparate parts
of the genetic material, but sometimes they're
actually co-localizing in three dimensional space,
and there's more and more that's being learned about
how that works in cells. So I'm thinking that in the
future it may be possible to use gene editing to alter
multiple genes at once, maybe to remove whole segments of a genome that aren't necessary for certain kinds of developmental pathways, for example, in particular cell types. I think the opportunities
for using it as a real tool of understanding of the
genome are still really very much out there to be captured. - So let me turn the
question that you asked me in the beginning of the
conversation back to you. What does the phrase human
evolution mean to you in 2018? - What does the phrase human
evolution mean to me in 2018? - [Dr. Mukherjee] How
has that changed for you? - Well, I think we're on
this incredible continuum. It really is an exciting time. I feel many days a sense of wonder. I feel amazed that I'm alive at this time when we're at this moment
when all these technologies are coming together
and, for the first time, we can do things. Like we said, in Chancellor
Christ's introduction, we really have now the
power to control evolution, and it's not just in principle our own. That's obviously still
on the leading edge, but to control evolution
of other organisms in our environment. It's a really profound opportunity and a profound responsibility. So I hope that we can all work together and work as you're doing to educate people about the science behind this
so they can think about it and really contemplate what this means. - [Dr. Mukherjee] Is it possible to have an international moratorium until we decide this is conceivable? - No. (laughs) No, it's really not, because
as we discussed earlier, I think culturally there
are just many differences in the way people approach these things, and how would you enforce such a thing? But I think what one can
do is engage in discussions that are international, invite
people to share their views, try to understand where
they're coming from, and I think that's what
universities should be doing. We should be encouraging that and be really leading that conversation. Not dictating it, but just inviting it and welcoming different points of view. So I would like to now open
up the floor for questions, 'cause I know that some
of you may have questions, and we'd really like to
hear what you're thinking and try to answer them. So we have runners with
microphones that are coming around and if you raise your
hand, they will call on you and we will bring a microphone to you. And who's calling out the... - [Woman] I'll start on this side. - The lights are in our face so excuse us if we turn to you late. Yes? - [Man] Hi, thanks, it was a great talk. My question is sort of quick. I'm just wondering what have been the three most
influential-slash-favorite books for both of you. - Well, it's interesting that you ask because we were just
saying, this week, I think, is the 50th anniversary
of The Double Helix, Jim Watson's famous and at
one point infamous book, which actually was really
a trailblazer for me as a young reader, showed
the human process of science, warts and all, and I was
very influenced by it. I was also very influenced
as a young reader by Orwell. All of Orwell's books were
very influential to me, in fact, have influenced my thinking. And then I would say, I
discovered in writing The Gene, I discovered someone I
had weirdly neglected, and I wrote about him recently in an essay for The
New Yorker, Chesterton. Now, you could say, well, what
about Chesterton and gene? In fact, Chesterton wrote
very deeply about eugenics. He was one of the great
skeptics of eugenics. I discovered his writing much later, and realized that there's
something wonderful about his very bracing
skepticism about eugenics. So those would be three
books sort of picked out of a basket of thousands. How about you, Jennifer? - Yeah, fascinating. Well, I have to say that
The Double Helix also for me was incredibly influential. That book was probably
the first book that I read back when I was in grade
school about science, and it kind of blew my mind. For those of you that have read it, it's really a very personal
history of the work that Watson and Crick
and their colleagues did to discover the structure of DNA. It was really very eye-opening for me, and really made me think
about becoming a scientist for the first time. And then the other two might surprise you. Maybe not. One is I would have to say
The John McPhee Reader. I don't know if anybody
here knows John McPhee, but he's a fabulous writer and he writes about all sorts of topics, and what he does is he
basically travels around and talks to interesting people. A lot of them are scientists,
but some of them aren't, and he writes about it. I found his writing to
be incredibly captivating and interesting, again,
in my formative years. And then more recently, I read a biography of Dorothy Hodgkin that
was also just fantastic. Learning about her life
and she had multiple kids and she was working at a time when it was very difficult for women in science in particular, and she prevailed, and
she won the Nobel Prize. She did really just incredible,
groundbreaking work. So that was also incredibly
inspiring for me. - There's a little note in The Gene. I actually met Dorothy Hodgkin years ago. There's a little note in The Gene, where when she won the Nobel Prize, the subtitle in one of her photographs was A Housewife From Sussex,
or wherever she lived. (both laugh) - [Jennifer] Oh, wonderful. - [Woman] Hi, I think
I'm the next questioner. - Where are you in space? - Wave to us. - Wave to us. Oh, there you are.
- There you are, okay. - [Woman] You talked earlier
about the cultural differences or the difference in cultures
in terms of their approach to the opportunity and
responsibility of gene editing. Can you kind of talk a
little bit more about China or other parts of the world
and what their approaches are? And I think that's an
interesting piece for the public to understand where things are going in other parts of the world
and what your opinions are about what's happening
in other parts of the world. - You take that one first. - Well, okay. Again, this is really just my
personal observations, right? But I think that what I've noticed is that in certain parts of the world, and I'm not putting any particular
country on the spot here, but I think there are parts of the world where there's an incredible
eagerness to be engaging in the scientific process. People that have felt
maybe not included in that in the recent history
and wanna get into it, and wanna be recognized for their work. They wanna be prominent. They wanna attract attention. They want to make progress. So I think there are
motivations that go beyond the simple joy of discovery, which I think all scientists share. There also are people
that are thinking about really putting their country
or their culture on the map in terms of international recognition. So I think that we're seeing
that there is some of that that's driving the push
towards certain kind of edgier, I would say, applications of
something like gene editing. And that's where we
just need to be careful. Again, what I've observed
is that there's a desire on the part of scientists to be respected by their colleagues, to be
accepted by their colleagues. So I think there is a
willingness and an interest in engaging in sort of an
international consensus around what we all consider
to be appropriate use of technologies. That's just my observation and I think that's what
we should be encouraging. Because culturally people do approach these things differently. - And I would say even the
microcultures in science are different. We were talking about,
you know, once in a while, I'll speak with someone
like George Church. I actually had a public
conversation with George. I talked about, George is a big enthusiast of really opening this field up. I think it's fair to say
he would be an enthusiast of making directed manipulations
in human sperm and eggs. And he thinks, that's his brain. I think like a physician first. My first thing that
comes out of my brain is, "Are we ending suffering?" "How can I first do no
harm?" is the first thing that comes out of my brain. People's brains are hooked up differently, and I do think that
people's cultural brains are hooked up differently. Yes, there's a need for provocation. Yes, there's a need to do as you work to put people on the map, but someone who's grown
up in, I grew up in India, the cultural brain, you know,
what we think is permissible and not permissible is different. We have different
understanding, for instance, of where life begins. And that is important. And it's so important that,
in fact, there will be places, there are places that are drawing lines, which then the lines don't
exist across the border. Science will move in accordance to that. If you wanna make genetic
changes in human sperm and eggs, as a scientist, you would
relocate to a place, if you badly wanted to do that, you'd find a place to do it in the world. So that's why I keep coming
back to this question. We need to have some sense of boundary. That's my physician brain speaking, first do no harm brain speaking. We have to have some boundaries. I don't know how to reach them, but I think they're important. - [Man] Hi, question up here. So one of the most surprising
things about genetics for me was that effectively 97% of
DNA itself is noncoding, right? And for awhile, there was
sort of the dead space and you just assume that introns
were there for no reason, and every time I look
at the literature still, it's always kind of vague and confusing, and it's like, well,
introns may do something, they may have some role. But I guess my question is,
what is the current attitude towards introns in general,
with respect to DNA, and do you think CRISPR
will ever become so advanced such that these kinds of concerns are going to become necessary in whether we're gonna understand
something else about that? I understand that's kind of theoretical. (audience laughs) - We're both pointing at each other. - Well, let's explain
some terminology first, just to widen out the question. So one of the surprising things that we learned as biologists, in fact, this happens to be the 40th year of the discovery of gene splicing. And there was a big
symposium, I went to it. So it turns out that, in
fact, a gene in the genome is often broken up into parts, and they're long parts that
are spliced out or removed when that gene finally
becomes a mature RNA, which then gives a protein. So introns are those long
parts that are removed. Exons are the parts that
ultimately make their way into becoming protein, and the question has to do with, well, what about all those
introns and also the other space, the intergenic spaces, which for a long time
were called junk DNA? That's a terms that we
inherited from the 19... The history's interesting of that term. We inherited that term
for really no good reason. We inherited that term
from the 1960s and 1970s when our understanding of the genome was much, much more limited. My one thought about this is for cancer, it's turning out that those introns and that the intergenic
spaces are turning out to be extraordinarily important. Not all of it, but much of it. Jennifer, you refer to some of this. It's not only important in terms of regulating gene function. It is important in terms of
the way DNA folds in space and that also regulates gene function. Some parts of it will turn
out to be unimportant. There are lots of viruses
that sank their way into the genome, which have been silenced. In fact, there are whole
systems to silence these viruses that might pop their
heads up from the genome. So it's an active space, but all I can tell you is that in cancer, these previously
nonfunctional elements of DNA are turning out to becoming
extraordinarily important. And, by the way, how are we finding out that they're extraordinarily important? By using CRISPR. By chucking them out
and all of sudden seeing that they, in fact,
influence gene function in ways that we hadn't
thought about before. In cancer, that's a huge area of research, but I don't know what your thoughts are. - [Jennifer] Yeah, I don't
have anything to add. That's exactly right. - [Man] Over here. - Yeah, sorry. - [Man] My question is
regarding the accessibility of gene therapy and CRISPR systems. I mean, currently a treatment with antisense oligonucleotides
is $400,000 a year, and do you ever see these technologies helping the entire world, or just more well-developed nations? - Yeah, well, it's a great question. It's a really important question, and something that I am
thinking about a lot. I think this is on a
lot of people's minds, and whenever there's a new technology, you ask, what is this doing
to really help people globally versus creating even
more inequalities, right? And I think we'd all like
to see it do the former and not the latter. But inevitably when you
have new technologies, it's expensive to develop those and if you want to motivate
companies especially to do the work that's necessary
to create a therapeutic and go through all the clinical
trials that are necessary, there is a big investment involved, and that does lead to high costs of those kinds of treatments. How do you deal with that? So one of the things that
I'm involved in right now is some very active,
very exciting discussions with our clinical colleagues
at UC San Francisco. So through the Innovative
Genomics Institute, we've been working on something called the Genome Surgery Center. It's in its fledgling stages, but the real idea behind
this is to address exactly the issue that you're raising. I think none of us want
to see these technologies develop to help the .01%. We really want to see them develop to help a much larger swath of people. And so how do you do that? How do you get there and
deal with the realities of the costs of development? So there's some really creative ideas that are coming out of this. We have here, of course, at UC Berkeley, we have a lot of people
that are thinking about this from the standpoint of
economics, sociology, history, philosophy that we're engaging with. Also at Stanford University. And so, we have this great
intellectual community here in the Bay Area to really tackle this, and I'd really like to see us
take that on very directly, and find ways to develop, for example, just to give you an example,
what if you could find a way to treat a large swath of people that have a particular genetic disease using one configuration of
a gene editing technology that wouldn't require
individual clinical trials for each one? This would really reduce costs. So we're looking into ways
that we can streamline that, and to do that, we really
need to bring together people that are doing the technology development with those that are clinicians. They know their patients and they know what the technology
needs to be able to do. It's a great challenge and
we're, I think, on the cusp of being able to tackle it. - I mean, sickle cell
disease is going to be one of the first examples of this. How we tackle it is really
gonna be one of the models. Because, as a hematologist, I've taken care of hundreds of patients, young men and women, often
African-American men and women with sickle cell disease. It's a devastating disease,
debilitating disease. You know, pain crises, opioid addiction that comes with dealing
with these pain crises. So it's a tough disease. It is a disease that I think
is going to be very amenable to gene editing based
technologies and transplantation. It is on the cusp of becoming
very amenable to all of these, and the question is, how
are we gonna price that? And will we create a
gene therapy overclass and a gene therapy underclass? So that's one area that I think
that at least people like me are very actively watching. Thalassemia is another area. We're on the cusp of these, and I think those will be
models of trying to figure out, can we offer gene editing
to people who really need it without excluding them with cost barriers? You have the mic, yeah? - [Man] I have a microphone,
so maybe I'm next. - [Jennifer] Okay, go for it. - [Man] That was a really
fascinating discussion just now because from reading the book The Gene and also just thinking about
what we're going to do. The first thing that comes to mind, this wasn't my initial thing
I was going to talk about, but it's wonderful to solve diseases, but is the first disease
we're going to solve be a white disease? And that's just an aside based on what you were talking about here, and what you presented
about, underprivileged or where the money is,
et cetera, Dr. Doudna. - The quick answer is I don't think so. I think that the first disease
that we're gonna solve, I hope, is a disease of true suffering, which is most amenable
to these technologies, don't you think, Jennifer? - [Jennifer] I do. - I think that that's the first disease. - [Man] I hope so, and
won't it be fantastic when we solve that first disease? But then my question was,
or where I was fantasizing, and let's fantasize for a minute. Our first trip to Mars was
a little bit tough, okay? There was a certain group
of people who went there. A number of people died there. This is the fantasy, right? - I see. (audience laughs) - [Man] And didn't really come out the way they wanted it to. But we're going back to Mars. Shouldn't we be pre-adapted? We need to modify our corneas so we're not blind when we get there through extended space travel. Maybe we need to modify our gut so that we can eat this simple organism that we can grow on Mars. Perhaps we should also address
the issues about our bones so we won't collapse
and break like pretzels when we get on Mars. - You should come to our
workshop on astrobiology. - [Man] Pardon me? - Come to our workshop on astrobiology. We're gonna talk. - [Man] But now we're
pre-adapting a group of people that becomes almost like a
plaid of people, if you will, that are different from everyone else because they are going to Mars, and that just opens up the
thought about other plaids of people as well for different purposes, and really puts you into a territory that could be quite scary. - So I can give you my two bits on this. Lots of people disagree. I don't want to go to Mars right now. I'd rather focus on cancer. (audience applauds) To me, the question is,
yes, the fantasy's lovely. Lots of people disagree with me. I actually got into a strange
argument with Jeff Bezos about going to the moon. The moon is a far away place, which is very toxic for human beings. It's not a great place
to carry heavy things to because it's very expensive. It's not a great place to put anything in. There's a reason we aren't going there. It has no atmosphere. So I'd rather focus on curing
cancer and other diseases, but I understand it, that there is a desire to
escape these earthly coils. It doesn't fascinate me as a question. I don't know. Are you fascinated by the question? - I'm fascinated by the question, but I'm even more fascinated
by asking the audience to ask us one more question (audience laughs) and then we're going to
bring this to a close. So do we have one more burning question? Yes? - [Woman] Hi, thank you for
the great talk, first of all. I can already foresee many
ways in which genetic editing could be beneficial to curing diseases and just ending suffering
as you were mentioning. But what I was wondering
is from what I know and what I learned, a lot of
mutations occur just naturally within evolution. So I was wondering how,
or what your thoughts were on how genetic diversity
could be affected by editing and changing our genome. - Well, the short answer
is not much anytime soon. Because what we're talking about is making very targeted
changes to the DNA of cells that would be, at least in the near term, this is gonna be done in people in cells where it's
not a heritable change. So you're really making a
targeted change in a tissue or an organ in a patient, or
in blood cells, for example, for sickle cell disease
and that sort of thing. If you think in the longer term, I still think that there's always gonna be a background number of
mutations that are occurring. Every cell division leads to
some random changes to DNA that happen due to
various natural processes. And what we're talking about here is really just making one individual or maybe just a handful of
individual targeted changes. So if you think about that
in the context of evolution, they're sort of intermeshed, and you're always going to
have this background set of changes that are happening. I think the potential
to control those changes and introduce changes that are gonna have a real impact on disease
is a powerful one. But I think, as you get from
this conversation today, this is not going to happen
in any kind of a large sense in the human population anytime soon. I don't know how you would address that. - I would put a word of warning on that. I think it's a very important question. The question of
diminishing human diversity and having respect for human variation is an incredibly important point. I just often like to give
you the following example. Privatized eugenics in
the hands of the citizens of some parts of Northern
India has already created a disgenic state where
because of infant neglect or because of selective abortion, the gender ratio in these parts
and some parts of the world has now moved to 800 women,
800 girls, to 1,000 boys. It's a profoundly abnormal, unnatural, nowhere in human history have we had 800 girls to 1,000 boys. And that's mainly, because
of a combination of reasons, but mainly driven by the
idea that one genetic makeup is inferior quote unquote
to the other genetic makeup. There's no state mandate. In fact, the state prevents
you from doing this, but privatized eugenics
has already diminished human diversity radically in some places. So I have to say, we have to
be extraordinarily careful, even in handing over
to private individuals, private citizens, the capacity
to select their own genomes or the genomes of their children. This is such a primeval desire. To have the best children
is a primeval human desire, and it is so primeval that
left in the hands of people without cultural guidance,
without broad dialogue, without inclusivity, without equality, there is a rapid chance of it
devolving into a diminishment or a reduction of natural
human variation and diversity. Thank you for saying that (audience applauds) because it's a very important point. And we've seen it happen. Shall we? - I think we're at the
end of our discussion, but we want to thank
all of you for coming. Thank you to the chancellors
of UC Berkeley and UCSF. - Thank you for hosting me. - And our hosts and all
of you for attending, and we hope that you'll
continue the conversation. Thank you.
- Thank you. (audience applauds) (percussive music)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: W0kL48ck0Zg (https://youtu.be/W0kL48ck0Zg) ===

[Music] what we give our children through nature their intrinsic nature is so valuable to us that the temptation to manipulate it always existed and will always exist even as we move towards the most sophisticated forms of of genetics [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: XhCQq10H78I (https://youtu.be/XhCQq10H78I) ===

[Music] the next uh Storyteller I asked him our question which is what is a mystery that you would like science to explain and he said how does a single cell grow up to be a human being well I think I know that I mean when a man and a woman fall in love right okay I'm not even a scientist Dr sidartha Mukerji okay thank you in the spring of 1947 about 6 months before India would be split on the the northern front into India and Pakistan and on the Eastern Front into Bangladesh and West Bengal my grandmother who was a single mother moved five of her boys from her Village in borish southern part of Bangladesh to a safe haven in Kolkata now I use that word move very casually as if it's something you could do very easily you could get up and catch a train or catch a bus or maybe even a ferry but this was literally the most deliberate the most calculated and the most seminal moment in her history and in the history of our family had she waited 6 months she would have faced an incredible political configration rapes pillages occupations of homes but she did move and she came to Kolkata as an immigrant and not as a refugee and that distinction was critical for her she came to a home which she then could live in as opposed to the camps which others came 6 months after her she came with a full suitcase had she waited 6 months she would have come with an empty suitcase into an overpacked City why did she come what made her move 6 months before in fact what gave her the confidence to move well decades later she would tell the story which became a sort of Mythology in our family myth in our family and that is that about 6 months before around the time um she lived as many Hindus did in Bangladesh in a relatively traditional home the architecture was traditional and in fact the home was divided up into three quarters three living quarters there was an outermost quarter where uh Muslims were allowed to step move talk there was an intermediary quarter where the accountants would sit and they were allowed to perform business between Hindus and Muslims and then there was the threshold to the innermost quarter and it was impossible for any Muslim to step into that innermost quarter and my grandmother said and maintained that about 6 weeks before she moved she had watched perhaps it was a vision maybe it was real she had watched a Muslim man cross all the way from the outermost quarter and put his leg or his hand into the innermost threshold and this for her whether it was a dream was it a dream was it a vision but this for her was a seminal experience it was a signal of something to come it was an occupation even if it was an occupation of that Crossing of a threshold and she went to consult her friends her relatives who lived all around her and they said that's all nonsense you're dreaming um why don't you stay you know things have always been tense between Muslims and Hindus but there's been a stable tension here but she wouldn't listen to them she in fact lifted up packed her bags suitcases and moved with her five young children this experience was a peculiar experience for her because rather than making her believe it actually made her disbelieve and by disbelieve I mean she began to fully disbelieve that anyone in the world could be correct except for herself um and this process hardened her it was as if something had broken and then restruct reset itself like a bone or a piece of Steel and that process of annealing had in fact hardened her enormously people talk about the the very loving Indian grandmother she was the opposite of the the loving Indian grandmother in in 1964 she moved before I was born she moved with my father to our which was there was then going to become our home in Delhi and she set up her own living quarters there with a threshold and you could only cross that threshold if you had bathed she was became incredibly austere um she would clean her floor every day and she had only four items of clothing and she replaced them she would wash one to wear one and she became one of her measures of incredible austerity was that she began to essentially eat the same meal every day she would have boiled lentils and rice for lunch and boil lentils and rice for dinner the same meal over and over again and um I have a I have a couple of memories of her from my childhood one memory is that I looked through recently while I was thinking about the story I looked through photographs there are many photographs of me with her and yet not in one photograph is she actually touching me she had become peculiarly aversive to touch and the other memory that I had um was that um I had at one point of time I I had made a picture of of a tiger if I remember correctly and brought it to her as grandchildren often do for appreciation and she looked at me and she she looked at the picture and I said do you like it and she gave the very famous Bengali nod which means yes but it can also mean it's horrible um we've all heard about the tiger mom she was the mom of the tiger mom she was the tiger grandom um well there are many disadvantages in life to having the same meal of lentils and boiled rice every day but there's one advantage that is you live for a very long time and indeed she did she lived for a very long time and then something bizarre and astonishing began to happen to her and that is that she began to have a very acute sense of her dying of actively dying and and I remember this because one morning my father was about she was about 80 years old my father was about to leave on a tour to another city and as he was coming down the stairs she called him and she said I think she said don't go I think I'm going and uh my father looked at her quizzically and she said I think I'm coming to an end and my father wondered about what was going on with her but she really she she he had learned by this time that usually when she made declarative statements she was usually right and so he stayed back and when I came back from school I was I also heard the same story I went to her room and I said Grandma what's what's happening and and is there something I can do for you can I bring you something and she said yes I want some sweets and I thought you know not only is this woman losing her body she's losing her mind I said sweets and she said yes I want there's a particular Bengali sweet which is a luxury made of milk and she said I want sweets so in deference to all of this I got on my bicycle rode off and I brought back a pack of these Bengali Sweets like can candy and she ate five of them and she said she had she had never had five sweets in the last 20 years she felt very sated and then she literally in the most astonishing manner got on her bed and began to prepare to die and over the LA the next 24 hours we watched her slowly decline in front of our eyes in full astonishment a priest was brought in and her breathing slowed and slowed more and then there was that uncomfortable moment that many of us don't know which is the moment in which there's a kind of gurgling gasping sound it's called air hunger in medicine and then the air hunger subsided and she was no more the next morning we got ready for her funeral now I had been to a funeral I had been had seen an Indian funeral I'd seen them before but I'd seen them sort of distantly I remember a moment when I was seven or 8 years old I went with my father to bernis the city where many many Indians will cremate burn their dead it was it had rained the night before before I was 7 or 8 years old it had rained the night before and the the gut which is the stone step that leads out onto the river it was wet it was slippery and then I was on a boat and the boat was on the ganga the Ganges and I would drove out onto I rode out onto the boat with the boat man and then all of a sudden the boat turned to bend and we were at the burning guts the guts were actually the dead or burnt and it was an astonishing sight a sight that takes your breath away because all along you're on this River and all along there are these Stone steps and their bodies burning like lanterns lit along the river and there men and women performing the rights of the Dead carrying them moving them down into the water bathing the dead bringing them back and laid and and putting them on the funeral PES and then setting them a light and occasionally a priest would come and shovel the still burning embers into the water in in Plato there's a moment in which the soldier leonus says he cannot look upon the Corpses but as a child of seven how can you not look and so I had to look my curiosity was literally morbid and as I was watching I saw one of these men who who had probably previously been carrying a body he was holding out his arms but he was just carrying air and then just just like that the boat rounded a bend and we were back in the city of Banaras someone was throwing bird seed at pigeons there were children playing and the normaly of Life returned just as quickly well this was what we did with my grandmother to some extent as well we we we brought her over she was now placed in a in a white SAR uh my father and I mostly my father I she we carried her into the water we bathed her and then we lifted her out of the water and uh we moved her into the into the wooden p and my father lit the uh my father lit the uh lit the fire and we watched all of us we watched um until all that was left was the little umbilicus that's the last part of the body to burn and then everything else had become Ash and gone up into smoke decades later um I became an oncologist I saw cancer patients I I still see cancer patients and um I went to the funeral of a woman who had died of breast cancer um and this was in Boston it was in a church very near Boston and I while I was driving that I was thinking about this woman's death this woman had actually died in the hospital uh she hadd been admitted because she had been short of breath um but she had been admitted alone she had come from an acute care center been admitted directly to the hospital her relatives her family had been unable to get to the hospital in time and in fact she had died overnight an intern had pronounced her dead and by the time the children had come to the hospital she'd been fully uh fully dressed up again as it were and I was I went to the funeral and as I walked towards the coffin I noticed something unusual I looked on and her lip someone had put lipstick on her lipstick on this body and there was a weird chill that went through my body it was as if the entire process had become sanitized become ethereal and sanitized and so I went back the next morning and I talked to my residents in my interns and I said I asked them how many of them had actually lifted a body what does a weight feel like um it is a peculiar thing I don't know how many of you have It's A peculiar thing because it is as if gravity has become changed the word gravity which has to do with the word grave all of a sudden they collide with each other even when you're lifting a sleeping child the muscles cooperate with you it is only when you lift the dead when you realize that it is a failure of the muscles the muscles go away and what about that moment that that that air hunger that I talked about how many of you have experienced that air hunger or have have seen it or of course the thing that's written so often in literature the idea of the light going out in someone's eyes how many of us have seen the light go out in someone's eyes it seemed to me then that we're actually actively forgetting how to die we're actively forgetting what the act of death looks like what it seems like what it feels like what it weighs like it seems to me sometimes that we've become a culture that is forgetting the rituals that are associated with death it seems sometimes that we're like that man who's on the river bank and we're holding up our arms but there's no counterweight to Bear it is it seems as if sometimes that we just just holding up air thank you [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Xljlj_CjRBs (https://youtu.be/Xljlj_CjRBs) ===

one of the worries as we have is that people may be sitting at home and they have been told not to come into hospital and they're ignoring symptoms which otherwise they would have attended to and we know that if we catch cancer early in most cases we have much better outcomes [Music] good afternoon and welcome to chasing to cancer 2020 I'm Francis steed cellars a senior writer at the Washington Post my first guest today is dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee he is a renowned oncologist he's a Pulitzer Prize winning author and he's also serving on Governor Andrew Cuomo's Commission to rebuild New York's economy in the wake of the pandemic welcome dr. mukajee delighted to have you I'd like to start by asking you about the huge surge in cases we have across some of the parts of the country in the states in the south and southwest particularly what's going on there is America opening too quickly too soon to unscientifically well I think I mean some aspects of the surge were expected so I think some of it is just the fact that once you let the once you that people interact there will be infections I do fear that we are opening without adequate masking an adequate protection I'm extraordinarily worried that the messaging that we've tried so desperately to move into people's minds over the last two months has not fully penetrated and that is you know avoid crowded spaces avoid closed spaces and avoid contact and obviously if you're ill yourself get tested and get isolated and quarantined right now in the absence of a vaccine and it would be with very very few medicines that we have available against ghovat 19 this public health strategy is the best strategy you can either you know basically isolate yourself or you can isolate your respiratory system by wearing a mask and I think part of the problem is that outside you know many many other place many places I see photographs so people have not been traveling outside New York City but I see photographs of people wearing no masks in close contact with each other and I think that's a big big big big problem in New York I was up this morning and virtually everyone is masked so I was going to ask you specifically about New York because you're serving in this commission there um what does New York have now does it have specific tools to protect against a second wave are you worried about that given what we're seeing and you know as I said states like Arizona and Florida and Texas so again we're using the best public health measures that we know and as a right now in the absence of a vaccine and with very few medicines that work the best public health measures are the ones I described New York as you very well know is opening in phases we are now in a in the first phase of the opening and businesses are now open some businesses are now open in you know restaurants are open on in in open spaces and that's because we know from a lot of data that most of the infections virtually all of the infections with Kovac 19 occur in closed crowded spaces when you have intimate contact with respire two droplets from someone who is infected so I think the phase by phase opening is actually the right way to do things I think really emphasizing that masking and isolation and a boiling of crowds in closed spaces is the right way to do things and if you don't do it I think we will face a second wave which will unfortunately you know if we do another shutdown it will the economy once again and that's what we want to avoid I would implore really implore the governors of Florida and Arizona and Texas to take this extremely seriously you have mentioned vaccines a couple of times and president Trump has talked about rolling out hundreds of millions of doses of vaccines by January even some scientists subduction and thought this was a possibility goal what's your thinking here why do you think we might have a vaccine and when do you think that might bring us back to a sort of normal way of life well so you know most people who work on vaccines I did a roundtable with the leading corona viral assists and vaccine people recently you can find it on the web most people think that 18 months is a extraordinarily ambitious goal but potentially achievable so that brings us really into the middle of the summer next next year vaccines are extraordinary things because they have to be not only developed and tested but they also have to be safe we cannot compromise on safety and and also they have to be deployed it's not just enough to have a vaccine it is you need to give the vaccine you need to have enough doses available so that you can get real immunity so I think the you know the idea that we would have a vaccine by the winter is extraordinarily ambitious I mean is it possible I suppose it is possible but we cannot we really because vaccines are given to healthy people we cannot compromise on safety and I guess right now with all the vaccine hesitancy there is that there doesn't even higher burden on this burden on this vaccine to be safe right we've got people just trusting measles vaccines and other that's right so that makes it an even greater challenge as I said in a vaccine a vaccine by itself in a tube is not useful a vaccinated human being is is what we need and and and you know those are two different things we need to rebuild trust in the scientific system vaccines in the history of humanity have saved millions of lives millions of lives have been saved so we need to get over the distrust of vaccines the other good thing that's I think it's important to emphasize is that vaccines have been getting safer and safer and safer every year and that's because new technologies have allowed us to make much safer vaccines and were ever present before as you know there's a lot of misinformation about vaccines and that's because vaccine vaccine knowledge ease date back way you know into the into the late 18-hundreds and 1700s so so this you know we have become progressively able to create safer and safer and safer vaccine so there's a lot of misinformation about vaccines that needs to go so that we can actually get safe vaccines into the hands of people that brings me to an audience question Sylvia wolf in New York asks whether there will ever be a vaccine for cancer well Sylvia you know there is no such thing as cancer as a single disease so it is a multiplicity of diseases and therefore I would say that it's impossible to imagine a single vaccine for cancer now let me give you some examples there is a highly effective vaccine developed by scientists against one virus that causes cancer the human papilloma virus that causes cervical cancer and we know that that vaccine so the so-called HPV vaccine is highly effective at reducing the risk of cervical cancer but the idea that there would be a vaccine against all cancers I think is unlikely because every cancer is really a different disease right it's become increasingly hard for people to visit their doctors to get screened to have follow-up appointments what's your greatest concern now when it comes to treating patients with cancer well so we've tried I think across the nation we've tried to maintain schedules for EEMA therapy and other life-saving treatments for cancer patients as much as we can I think where we've seen where we've seen a drop-off has been in in in cancer screening and I you know I can let me emphasize that colonoscopy and mammography are tested mechanisms of screening and so people are afraid to go to the hospital and we've seen a drop-off of people coming in for routine cancer screening and I you know the catch cancer early is a is a very very important part of the way we treat cancer and so we just have to wait and see and encourage people to maintain their regular screenings again with the appropriate precautions that are required to go to the hospital so it brings me to another opiates question this is from Leo Jones in Washington DC and he tells a story that I think many people will relate to he has a friend who was recently recently died and Freck from Co good 19 and he says he and his friends suspect that the virus was caught during a visit to a hospital for chemotherapy so his question which I'm going to read is should patients with early stage cancers consider suspending hospital treatments for a year until the US has better control of the virus the answer is no they should not do that I think in most places in most cancer centers the the team of outpatient chemotherapy wards have been isolated and intensive testing is deployed before you can get chemotherapy so in fact I know from our chemotherapy words the outpatient chemotherapy words that they're you know the levels of safety are are incredible and enormous obviously there are other parts of the hospital and depending on where you are in the United States where there are Kovac patients and there but they're really different parts of the hospital it's very very unusual to have a outpatient chemotherapy suite which is where most chemotherapy is applied to be commingled in any way with a word that has patients with kovat in it in the United States so I you know treating cancer early and appropriately remains an incredibly important goal and I would I would discourage people from delaying chemotherapy or surgical therapy or radiotherapy for early cancers because of worries about covert other forms of cancer treatment that can be done through telemedicine is that a transition that you are seeing I've talked to various other doctors including ER doctors who talked about telemedicine forming an ever more important role here so I'd love to hear from you about cancer treatment one of the one of the major focuses of the governor's panel in New York is telemedicine it is very clear that telemedicine is going to be part of our future and that is not only because of Kovac 19 it was going this way even before Kovac 19 but Kovac 19 has in some ways just emphasized the idea over again I think that the you know we need to get the right kind of telemedicine and the idea that that that I favor is a kind of hybrid model in which you will have maybe two out of three visits as telemedicine visits and then one out of the three visits being an actual hand-to-hand or face-to-face visit it's it's really important for me to emphasize that telemedicine is not just FaceTime with your doctor there needs to be a wide infrastructure built it needs to be accessible it needs to be equitable it needs to reach minorities it needs to reach places like rural areas where you know you may not have broadband access that's that's compatible with telemedicine so there's an enormous there's an enormous amount of infrastructure that needs to be built but but but the answer is very clear I think a hybrid model with telemedicine and face-to-face medicine needs to be built and that is just the way forward so let's step back just into the lab a little bit we've been talking about treatment but we have this huge focus right now on coronavirus and an enormous amount of research going into that is that going to hurt some of the innovations in cancer at this point or are we they've been delayed do you see problems that in that area or can they the two issues move ahead symbiotically the there has been a very concerted effort from the NIH and from other societies to make sure that the that cancer research is not delayed there was a time I have to say that that clinical trials for cancer had to be slowed down and in fact with treatment slowed down because we had you know the hospital was overwhelmed by coronavirus and this is again a good reason to to be thoughtful about this because if you you know containment off of the Kovach 19 endemic not only helps people with code 19 but of course it helps people with any medical condition so we are now we've now restarted in New York at least at my hospital restarted virtually every trial the IRB czar functioning again a lot of meetings are being done through through the web but nonetheless they are still functioning and laboratories are up and running with new protocols to keep social distancing and masking available so we are back I would say mostly on track but remember we are on Phase one of the of the reopening right talk a little bit more broadly about the health care system as a whole how does the virus changed how things are being done you've talked a little bit about telemedicine do you see other changes that will be ongoing and potentially beneficial that will emerge from this situation yes so I think I mean one of the things that's that's emerged is we we've learned very quickly I think that we need and that we need a strong pandemic response team we've learned very quickly again that we need to strengthen the CDC and the FDA one of the most crucial I would say one of the most crucial problems and or challenges for Kovach 19 was there was a 42 day delay between the section of the first case of covert 19 in Seattle and the widespread availability of testing from the CDC FDA or patients that delay should you know really put us back in terms of being able to track and trace and isolate people and by the time the testing kits were widely available you know the endemic had already spread in the United States so we've learnt lessons there as I said there are very sobering lessons one more lesson is that the current system by which we stop file and and give personal protective equipment to doctors facing a pandemic was not in the right place many doctors and nurses as you know were infected some some of them have unfortunately died this was it was it was a huge tragedy and so that's another thing we've learned that we really really need in the middle of a pandemic to have clear guidelines and adequate equipment for doctors and nurses to protect themselves and of course for patients to be protected as well and this is key of course going ahead with cancer treatment as well that all these investments in broad issues will become important as well and how we deal with cancer going ahead right not just individual treatment but looking at these public health aspects and bring making sure minorities are brought in for treatment absolutely I mean you know there has been a an enormous effort preceding covert to ensure that treatment was equitable I mean the the non equitable treatment for African Americans versus non African Americans or Hispanics Persis non-hispanics has been very widely studied and noted in cancer and so you know this has been widely studied widely noted there have been multiple panels and commissions who try to correct it I believe it will be corrected but if anything the Cobra pandemic has made it very clear that healthcare healthcare and equities are an incredibly important issue to address as we move forward into the next months ahead so I think I have time for one last question and that's really about the you work at Columbia your your training the next generation of students who will go off and be oncologists and do their own work in the midst of a pandemic how are you preparing them to be the future oncologists we all need to go out in such a stress stressful situation and face and help people dealing with this terrible disease well I think it's it's it's reminding people I mean the Kovach pandemic has reminded people that health is an incredibly important part of the infrastructure of the nation are you know without health you can't have a functioning economy without health care appropriately delivered you can't have a functioning economy and a functioning populace so if anything I found that the students are more energized they're giving more of their time many of them have volunteered in various capacities during the pandemic which is a very encouraging sign they're afraid I think but the one thing that that that's been very clear is that you know if anything the pandemic has convinced us that without adequate health care an adequate distribution of care you know we can't function as an economy and we can't function as a nation so there's thank you so much I didn't mean to interrupt that last sentence but thank you so much for joining us that's a great note to finish on we have a short video an hour and another segment and then I'll be back with dr. Otis Brawley so please stay tuned after the next segment thank you thank you [Music] [Music] Herr Richardson Heron Pfizer's chief patient officer and it's really great to be here today with me a suit peshan the president and CEO of the Alliance for aging research now sue is here with me today to address one of the biggest blind spots in cancer and that it is age you know while access to and delivery of quality cancer care is not a new issue the conversation to date has largely excluded older people as a distinct and vulnerable population but we all know that age is one of the greatest respecters for developing cancer and and issues faced by older people are only further exacerbated by a person's race socioeconomic status anand of where they live and as was just mentioned study after study shows that older people are not receiving at optimal care as well as those racial and ethnic backgrounds and this has serious implications ranging from a greater risk of experiencing decreased quality of life - Donnie prematurely from certain diseases and then on top of this the data clearly show that older African Americans are more likely to die of cancer than older white Americans you know at this time of when racism is at the center of our nation's conversation change must come bias is must and we must strive for the highest quality outcomes for all Americans regardless of their race or their age so sue I just want to say thank you again for joining me today for this very important discussion let's jump right in what are some of the reasons older people may not be receiving standard treatments thank you so much for having me and that's a great question the kovat 19 pandemic has really brought to light in dramatic and tragic ways health care inequities and disparities that older adults face people aged 65 and older make up 80% of all covered 19 deaths of the vast majority and some people will say well everybody dies but coded 19 is really an extra something it's highly infectious and deadlier in older people and this dismissive attitude towards older people and first for me really isn't new a prism is common and coded 19 has just revealed it a little bit more and it's led to the marginalization of older people within our communities and you know the truth really is thankfully all of us are living longer healthier and more active lives so we just have to ask ourselves why is it that our loved ones 65 and older are not receiving the best care we can offer particularly when it comes to cancer you know when I think I think the answer is it's complicated it's a problem that spans challenges in our medical our societal and our policy arenas yes that is exactly right dr. Dara older people aren't represented at the rates they should be in cancer clinical trials and that makes it harder for clinicians on the available evidence a few years back the FDA did an analysis of registered cancer trials and they found that only about 40% of trial participants were age 65 and older and that's compared with them representing about 60% of the overall population with cancer also about half of older people have at least one chronic condition on top of their having cancer so understanding how additional chronic conditions can impact cancer treatment is really important older adults are individuals and so there's a need for individualized care decisions a one-size-fits-all approach doesn't really work one person might be focused on getting rid of their cancer no matter what the side effects or risk might be well another one might want to make sure they're able to reach a family occasion free of discomfort ideally the healthcare team should support a patient's access to the care that they want whether interventional or palliative age bias as well as race and cultural biases may impact whether critical discussions about treatment goals and decision making are taking place between patients and their healthcare providers and that really needs to get recognized and fixed yeah you know we take it all in together it's really difficult for older people to get the care they need and deserve so in your opinion what can we do to fix the problem yes let's focus on solutions so first we really need to increase the number of older people participating in clinical trials for all types of conditions that impact them but also for certainly for cancer and we can learn from the European Medicines Agency about how their geriatric medicine strategy has improved data gathering on older people and if this model would work in the United States with the FDA then we have to support our healthcare practitioners to use better clinical tools for older adults such as geriatric assessments and those tools help to fully evaluate the person at an individual level and that helps support the treatment decisions based on their goals and their values and last we really need to support improved access to affordable high-quality health care well all of those are fabulous and great points sue and although one thing we know for sure is that cancer does not discriminate and neither should cancer care that's why Pfizer is working with the cancer community to tackle these issues and identify solutions for example we're partnering with the Association of Community Cancer Centers to develop a self assessment tool for healthcare professionals to identify areas for improvement in the care of people over 65 and and from there we'll be developing resources to address the many gaps and we're also very proud to be partnering with patient organizations to expand information and resources to support the needs of older people living with cancer and their caregivers including a focus on people of color so I've really enjoyed the conversation immensely but we are at time so I'd like to again extend our heartfelt thank you to you sue for chatting with me today the bottom line is is more needs to be done to address the systemic shortcomings that impact cancer care as we age and certainly the time is now for all of us to work together to tackle this complicated issue on all fronts we can and we must do better for our families our friends and our own future so thank you again sue that concludes this second the program will continue in a moment with a video introducing the next segment thank you [Music] you good afternoon if you're just joining us at chasing cancer 2020 I'm Francis steed cellars a senior writer at the Washington Post joining me now is dr. Otis Brawley he is a former president of the American Cancer Society and he's now a Bloomberg distinguished professor of medicine at Johns Hopkins he's here to talk to us in particular about disparities in healthcare and dr. Brawley welcome one other thing that's become very clear during this pandemic and at this watershed moment in terms of red racial justice is how african-americans and other minorities have fared so badly in the kovat epidemic can you tell us what gaps this is revealed in the American healthcare system yes thank you for having me the Cova de pandemic really exposed a gaping wound in American society it's really based on socio economics the people who could not shelter in place the people who still had to go to work were people who are of lower socioeconomic status many of those jobs are held by blacks and Hispanics and many of our big cities and those people were still exposed to the coronavirus they couldn't shelter in place those folks also had many comorbid diseases that we see folks of lower socioeconomic status having higher prevalence diabetes hypertension cardiovascular disease this created the perfect storm for people who would get the disease their living environment living in dense environments allowed for increased spread and once they had the disease they had other illnesses that made outcome more likely to be not good do these same disparities exists in terms of prevention prevention and treatment of cancer as well these disparities are the problems that we've been dealing with in the area of health disparities and health equity and they've really been defined for more than 50 years indeed one of the things we're really surprised about what if some people seem shocked that these disparities were happening coronavirus they have been happening in cancer they've been happening in cardiovascular disease they've been happening in the number of different diseases over the years so that brings me to a question from Holly Anderson in Minnesota and she asks that we read the question our systemic racism health inequality linked how do we ensure health equality for all people regardless of race yes they are they are definitely linked part of it is based on education it's a number of different things and sometimes we try to have band-aid solutions where we just try to fix one thing it's linked to lack of education lack of understanding health promotion and health prevention activities it's not having a job it's not having access to care once one has insurance and access to care it's sometimes discrimination in getting the care itself you know a number of studies out there to show that poor people have lack of access to care for various reasons the number of studies that show that the greatest problem is socioeconomic it's income and education there are also a number of studies to show that the largest district population for cancer is actually white Americans instead of blacks or Hispanics so you mentioned hypertension diabetes obesity these issues that are comorbidities for kovat but also complicate cancer treatment how do you see the healthcare system adjusting to trying to adjust with these very fundamental issues often that exists in the population before people have a see a doctor yeah this is actually a long-term problem and many of us believe that we need to focus more on preventing these diseases versus early detection and diagnosis once they happen I'm not against early detection and diagnosis of the diseases but there's not been enough emphasis in the United States on preventing them from starving to begin with if you look at Europe Western Europe especially in Canada they do a much better job in preventing these problems from ever happening and then you don't have to pay the incredible expense for treating them so that brings me to an audience question from chemist in Washington DC who asks how does race and ethnicity affect incidences and survival rates of cancer well they they correlate people who are black in the United States have a lower survival rate and a higher death rate is actually in epidemiology the more important factor the measure the death rate for blacks is higher in cancer it's higher in cardiovascular disease higher in diabetes certain Hispanic populations certain Hispanic populations also have higher death rates in those diseases as well and then the thing that we never talk about is poor whites especially in Appalachian the southern United States they also have higher rates of death from these diseases right so some people talk about very high-tech advances the very expensive high-tech advances we're making in cancer being more available to people who are well insured and are well off what can we do to make sure that cancer treatment is not reserved for the wealthy you know I worry a great deal I'm not at all opposed to improving cancer treatments but I am very concerned about the fact that a number of people don't get those treatments the best example I've ever known is colleague of mine a few years ago did a study and showed that 7% of black women in Georgia who are diagnosed with an early stage curable breast cancer get no treatment once diagnosed with that now that 7% get no surgery within the first two years of diagnosis I should say that is research that we've got any 1890s that they're not getting in 2005 so yeah I love the idea of new drugs and new treatments but we have to make sure that everybody can enjoy those new drug new treatments I just gave you an example of an old treatment that works that people aren't enjoying today right and right now we are hearing so much about people who are avoiding hospitals avoiding doctors offices because of fear of the environment of uncoded in that environment do you worry about late diagnosis of cancers do you even worry about a death toll to come because people have avoided early screening and early treatment you know we've actually been able to model that and in March April and May we really shut down clinical treatment of cancer and we shut down screening for cancer we are now concerned that in 2022 2023 we're gonna have a two to three percent increase in death rate from breast and colon cancer because of that shut down interestingly it's not as much the delay in screening its the delay in diagnosis and treatment it's going to end up costing us some additional lives perhaps ten to fifteen thousand additional cancer deaths in 2022 and 2023 we have about 600,000 a year in the United States by the way but it's the delay in treating that is causing the problem you know when we say women should be screened for breast cancer we see every one to two years if they put it off by three or four months that's not going to make a big difference in in our statistics now if we continue delaying screening well into the summer and Beyond then we worry about screening but right now the problem is there's people who have a symptom and are afraid to go to the doctor and get diagnosed there people who've been diagnosed were afraid to get treated so age is a significant risk factor factor for for cancer do we see disparities in terms of socioeconomic or racial disparities also in the older age group when it comes to cancer treatment all all older people and we say older were talking about people in their seventies and eighties all older people have a challenge with cancer poor people have a greater challenge with cancer when they are old what we learned about the healthcare system and how it functions from covert and how will that help us treat cancer better in the future or how may it help us well we've learned a lot about our healthcare system and our public health system and what some of the warts are keep in mind if we had the healthcare system of Germany and had reacted to the coveted infection way the Germans did we would have right now 36,000 deaths instead of a hundred and twenty thousand deaths if we had the health care system of the South Koreans and had reacted the way the South Koreans dead we would have somewhere around 1,500 to 1,800 deaths instead of a hundred and twenty thousand deaths so this is very indite of our health care system and our public health system and in New York for example some people died purely because the hospitals were overwhelmed and overrun and in extremis okay so when you're comparing those health care systems you're talking about something closer to a socialized model of course Britain as well is suffering it has a socialized model is suffering during this epidemic but what specific changes do you think could happen here we have a very fractured public healthcare system a lot of the the risk factors you talked about earlier on for cancer get lost at that level where do you want to see investments in the future in this healthcare system health care system I'm talking about an entire system from prevention through early detection and screening all the way into treatment in our system we so focus on treatment and don't focus on actually preventing disease in early detection in Germany and South Korea what they had was very aggressive finding the people who had coronavirus very aggressive sectoring them off from the rest of the population so that they did not spread it they had very aggressive public health early on that prevented problems now we don't have that public health problem and then we don't have good treatment once people get disease as well so what are the most exciting developments you've seen recently in cancer and a second part of this question what are you most excited about in the next five to ten years that you see coming in cancer treatment I've seen a number of things that make me incredibly excited you know over the last 40 years we develop a great deal molecular biology that allow us to understand exactly what cancer is and what's going on with cancer that's incredibly exciting that molecular biology by the way allowed us to figure out that we had a corona virus as a problem and allowed us to trace the corona virus some of that laboratory technology for cancer is helping us understand the corona virus as well as well in terms of treatment some of the immunotherapies that we have are really a game-changer and are helping to save lives and I'm not I'm someone who's in the past criticized people for being too excited about small incremental changes but some of the immunotherapies are actually good in terms of treatment I'm incredibly excited about what I proceed to be in increasing interest in prevention of cancer I really do believe that our cancer prevention efforts in the United States need to be increased dramatically and will in the long term help us now I'm asking people to plant a tree that they will never be able to enjoy the shade from but if we start practicing prevention today in 2035 2040 we will have less cancer we have evidence to show there are third the 50% of the cancers in the United States today could it have been prevented if we'd practice good cancer prevention in the 1980s well I guess you don't get to be an oncologist and to go into this field unless you have some sense of hope and and it seems as if your hope is based in greater prevention moving ahead I am much I my hope is based in prevention and based in the fact that I think people are now starting to appreciate it but I also have hope for treatment the immunotherapy work some of the new technologies even some of our chemo therapies as we learn more about the molecular biology of cancer we're actually designing drugs that are able to interfere with the molecular processes of cancer so I'm excited about that too but I think the big bang for the buck in the long term is going to be with prevention dr. Brawley thank you so much for joining us today it was fascinating and I'm glad we could end on a positive note there with some ambition and optimism about what could lie ahead for us thank you very much for joining us thank you dr. mukajee who joined us earlier this evening at this afternoon for a wonderful talk as well about cancer we have lots more coming at Washington Post live in the next few days including an interview an exclusive interview with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and also an interview with Arianna Huffington the CEO of global thrive you can find all the details at Washington Post live.com that's Washington Post live.com please stay tuned I'm Francis DeSales and thank you for joining us today you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: XoazuFAuU2M (https://youtu.be/XoazuFAuU2M) ===

[Applause] so it's it's a pleasure to give this lecture and acknowledge bill Stubing thank you very much for this opportunity it's also a daunting topic but I chose it so I'm gonna try to raise the question and hopefully all of us in the room will try to help each other answer the question but of course it's a question it's very relevant this morning someone asked me what I did this morning I'm a stem cell biologist I'm a cancer geneticist I do transplants I transplant blood stem cells into human beings this morning we just looked at our we have a morning laboratory rounds and we were looking through last week's data and realized that we had been using cord blood stem cells stem cells coming from umbilical cord blood and we're now getting routinely 90% genetic changes deliberately genetic changes in cord blood stem cells it was unimaginable six months ago it was unimaginable 12 months ago to get an efficiency of genetic to engineer human cord blood stem cells with efficiencies that range in the 90 to 95 percent range changing a genetic changing a gene of interest in treating and remember these are human cord blood this is not a mouse experiment these are human cord blood stem cells if we were to implant these into human beings they would in graft they would give rise to the entire system of human blood getting these numbers without exogenous agents without viruses are truly surprising and and raise fundamental questions about where this technology is going so in some ways my day comes through a very weird circle I wake up in the morning go to the laboratory see patients and then the evening I get to think about the things that I haven't thought about during the day which is what the hell are we doing where are we going with all of this and when what are the landmarks or the boundaries what is this nation look like in which an unusual number of technologies are converging on our ability to change human genomes so that's that's my introduction I am NOT here to give a biology lecture so by means of introduction we just need some vocabulary so I'm going to give a little bit of an introduction but really the there's a much wider deeper field here which I'm I'm not going to belabor but but the field in some ways in a sense starts with starts here in in the Czech Republic this is in a city called Bruno how many of you been to Bruno one two three five people yeah so this is where I would make the argument that this is where biology modern biology begins in fact it begins right here in this little garden about the size of this the full full edge of the stage over here which is planted peculiarly with gardenias when in fact several years ago several hundred years ago it was planted with peas and here this window over here this one is the window that we know that Gregor Mendel this is the room that Gregor Mendel inhabited and here in this garden he planted his first set of peas now people often ask and there's a great deep there's a lot of history over here which I'm glossing through people often ask well what about Mendel was so important so revolutionary and there are many many things we know the idea that ultimately Mendel came to the idea that there are particulate factors there are factors that move across generations not losing themselves not losing information but being carried in their wholeness that that Mendel really found but really Mendel's one of the things that I write about in the book is that really Mendel's genius was to mix two disciplines he mixed mathematics and biology people didn't think about biologic biology mathematically they thought about biology anatomically they thought about biology physiologically Mendel was one of the first to think about biology as an abstract problem in mathematics are there are there ratios are there rhythms are there fundamental constants ease that ride through the inheritance of heredity though it's amazing in retrospect that we think about heredity this way because the dominant feeling the dominant idea about what what heredity was was was an idea that we had was is a very intuitive idea but an idea that we inherited from generations past which is that you know your your nose looks like some kind of blend between your mother's nose and your father's nose your hair the color of your hair looks some kind of looks like some kind of blend between your father's hair and your mother's hair your height and so on and so forth so intuitively it made a lot of sense that you were the product some kind of Waring blender product of your of your two parents of your father and your mother and this theory was a powerful theory and really had stood the test of time across many thousands of years before as I said Mendel began to apply mathematical rules to very simple ways now the problem is if you think about it it cannot possibly be true because if that was true how would you explain gender if in every generation the the two features the anatomical physiological features of your father and your mother mixed together then how on earth would you explain the physiological dichotomy the the bifurcation of the an anatomy and physiology it just couldn't possibly be true there had to be unitary characteristics moving across generations and it's an amazing thing if you think about that it just takes you one second to take commonplace ideas in history to figure out that an incredibly important field could be based on conjecture and would be wrong and you could disprove it just based on one simple idea and of course was what Manuel did he took an entire field of history philosophy biology by fusing it and looking at mathematics and began to understand as I said that genes are carried in in unitary forms that really although he didn't use the word there's information that's moving in from one generation to the other and it doesn't get blended it really remains constant and this is of course is Megan himself it's a it's a it's a reminder to people who practice in the Academy that man will really virtually failed every examination that he ever took so much so that he wasn't allowed to really be a teacher he could only be a substitute teacher and and later in his life so that that's one reminder and the second great reminder is that later is life the the only scientific work that he ever did the molle important world that he ever did was in in publishing his important paper on peas it was read by a it was read by but we think about a hundred odd people and then basically vanished for forty odd years no one even heard of it talked about it referred to it and his later life was taken up with administrative responsibilities and he never produced another piece of work in his life so it's it's a kind of moral warning for people who who enter who leave the Academy to do administrative work anyway it's an important feature of the gene that the idea of genetic manipulation and genetic perfectibility occurs not as a consequence of what Mendel does or discovers but occurs in parallel with what Mendel doesn't discovers in other words the desire to perfect human beings through genetic means through the means of controlling heredity is an ancient desire it's a desire that predates Mendel and continues beyond mental what's interesting about it and we'll talk about this in greater detail Mendel and the idea of their the existence of the gene provides a critic Peace in this because he he and subsequently others once once we real once we realize and and fully digest the idea that the gene is a is carried in a particulate form that the information does not get destroyed you also have to accept that these individual pieces these units as it were could be individually manipulated now I want to emphasize how important that is because if if the whole thing was a kind of Waring blender miasma of of of features blending with each other our capacity in 2017 to intervene on one aspect of it leaving the rest of it untouched would be great a compromise we would we would be stuck saying God you know if we if we touch the gene that controls a terrifying form of cardiac disease and this was the reference made earlier what if we also mess up the genes that control physiology the development of the brain the fact that we have five fingers but in fact it is the it is the very idea that the that the gene occurs as a unitary object a unitary part of a material chemical that allows us in 2017 to make to imagine intervening on the human genome in a way that would be otherwise unimaginable if the gene was mixed up in a way in this Waring blender way so both these things are simultaneously true it is simultaneously true that the desire for human perfectibility arise as before modern genetics but it's also true that modern genetics allows us to bring to completion the idea of human perfectibility in a way that wouldn't be possible had old ideas of genes continue to exist if there's one point about this talk that I want to emphasize it's that both these things are true that there is both an ancient desire for human perfectibility and modern technologies have allowed us to take those ancient desire and bring them to a technological place which would not otherwise be possible was it not the case that genes were arranged this way we'll talk more about this as we move along but going back to this ancient desire in fact long after Mendel Mendel was rediscovered in the 1910s and 1920s having mean forgotten since the 1860s but the but the idea of human perfectibility was racing along in the tens and 20s on its own accord this is a picture of a Nazi scientist measuring the height of twins trying to understand the extent to which height is determined by genetic influences versus environmental or nutrient influences this is a this is one of the interesting pictures from the archives which is in the book this is another this is a picture from a Nazi training camp you can see the swastika on this man's armband and this would be a typical picture I mean it took a particularly a student intern to find this is we a typical picture it was it came on my on my desk except of course if you look very close by here is the teacher teaching Mendelian genetics you can see these little lines this would be a family history being taught as part of the education of a young of a young Nazi recruit but this of course was not only a Nazi problem this was not a german problem it is one of the it is one of the our attempts to airbrush history to remind ourselves that eugenics the idea of human perfectibility was something that was invented and created in the nineteen nineteen thirties in germany but of course that's not true the idea of eugenics was born out of a very liberal Victorian or post Victorian ethos Francis Galton who conjured the name eugenics the eugenics better humans a better heredity was was part of the of the great Victorian post Victorian elite who thought of himself as a great as someone who was doing humankind an enormous favor by helping us and and Golden's idea was that if you bred people if you bred the right kind of people at the right times a kind of numerological eugenics you would get better human beings and it was a social function it was in fact a state-mandated function that you should do this and this was the only way that we would get a more perfectible human race and we will eliminate terrifying diseases including mental illnesses so Galton's idea of eugenics was a an idea of selection but through better breeding this was a boy called what he called and what others later called positive eugenics but even then so this was in the early 1900's late 18-hundreds and early nineties the idea began to circulate and and if you were if an audience like this if you were part of you know the Bloomsbury elite as it were or what would later become the Bloomsbury elite you would find yourself agree with God and you would say this is one of the way is that a state should exert its influence a country should exert its influence and make human beings better but even then that idea doesn't get to Nazi Germany there's an intermediate period what I call the adolescence of eugenics and that of course is in the United States it's a history we've effectively buried but but but it's now emerging as a powerful moment in our history it begins among other things with these better babies contests this is a picture of of kids being and there's a physician here and a nurse judging two nurses three nurses better babies to to determine who are the best babies for future selection future representation it takes form in in these advertisements that come out in the in popular newspapers in films in magazines this is the the the tree of eugenics eugenics is the self direction of human evolution and it has all sorts of lovely things like biology anthropology statistics medicine etc converging like roots of a tree allowing human beings to become you know the branches that are that are improved based on these these roots that are collected my book the gene is dedicated to carry buck this is Carrie buck Carrie buck is really the the the the the person that crystallizes these ideas in its most macabre form Carrie buck is deemed to be a genetic imbecile and the the court mandates that she be sterilized in order to prevent her from having any more children as a consequence of genetic imbecility we now know and we suspect that that is likely all nonsense that in fact Carrie buck had no genetic imbecility she was a rebel she was she lived outside the norms of often of society but this is her with her mother Emma buck who was also and both of them were confined in a state held I would now call it a prison there was then called a sanatorium and and Carrie buck appealed her case she appealed her the state's capacity to sterilize her by removing her ovaries and she lost the case and the final judgment that was handed down by none other than Oliver Wendell Holmes was three generations of imbeciles is enough that word enough is a word that should send a chill up everyone's minds what is enough where does enough start an end but nonetheless Carrie buck was taken to a surgical suite against her will her belly was cut open and a surgeon was allowed by state mandate to remove her two ovaries and so that she would never have another child again I'm going to take a swerve away from this far away from this and talk about the scientific events that happened in between so that we can then get to the substance of the conversation which is with that history with that back story lurking behind us what do we do now what happens next this is really meant to be a rapid-fire scientific journey you can read in great great great detail about it in the Jane so I won't spend a lot of time but of course by the 1950s we returned to the idea while the idea while the idea of human perfectibility was advancing we did return to the idea of well what is a gene what is it made of is it a chemical what kind of chemical is it and if it's a chemical can we make changes in it if we make changes in what kind of changes should we be able to make that's that's again a long legacy this is a there's a structure component to this what is the structure of that chemical what is a function of that chemical what does it do and because it's a chemical can we change it can we change its its chemical nature and thereby change the heredity the hereditary information that's passed around so this is rosalind Franklin I put this picture in because this was this is this x-ray crystallographic Ribe Dazz the most beautiful picture ever taken in biology of course it is a picture of the structure of DNA and Rosslyn was among the first to to take one of these purchases of course photograph 51 and I put this in because we just finished the Nobel Prize season and Roslyn sadly would died of cancer before she could even be nominated for the Nobel Prize for this discovery but the winners of that prize of course were Francis Crick and and Jim Watson and this is the structure of DNA and there's some historical debate about the extent to which they used Roslyn's data to make this to make the structure nonetheless Jim Watson and Francis Crick were able to solve that structure of DNA and this is in fact their first in in their Cambridge laboratory as young man as you can see them attempting to build a sticking ball and stick model off that structure of DNA and that structure of DNA is now you many of you know is extraordinarily simple now that's important the extraordinary simplicity was unanticipated it's an extraordinarily simple structure and it carries its code the code that makes you and me or Anatomy or physiology really in four cardinal molecules which are then bound together in a chain one chain having lost you know a reading 8c a GC a GT and it's reverse complements it's mirror image reading AC T G C T G again this is most of you who are biologists or in medicine know this very well I won't press the point but if you're not in the field the important piece is the important thing to remember is that these two things these two strands are really complements of each other they're mirror images of each other and they're twined around each other in a double in the famous double helix and the information to build a an organism out of an embryo the information to carry out the physiology of the embryo is all carried in this in this pool of molecules in a sin for letters ACTG so that if I took your genome which would be 3 billion odd letters of this ACTG you actually get 3 billion from 2 pairs but three billion odd letters of this ACTG and i would print it out in a standard dick in a standard printed format just one person's genome it would be 72 full sets of the Encyclopedia Brittanica so you can imagine one set but 75 or 72 full sets and if you open one page you know set 16 volume 35 page 342 it would read a CT g c GT t TCG and so forth that's not real I didn't memorize it but I'm just making it up but but that would but that sequence from that encyclopedia we now know that from that encyclopedia a single cell can build a multicellular organism with all its complexities and all its many many dimensional physiologies so the question is how does it do it how does it do that now that's a long story there again I'm summarizing this will seem obvious to most people who are in the field in medicine and biology however again just to get the vocabulary clear between the 1950s and 1960s the important realization was that genes make messages these messages themselves have aspects of form and function or they can be further translated into aspects of form and function and we know the chemical versions of these this is the gene is carry in the form of DNA that gets that gets a copy of that or a variant of that gets made into RNA itself has some functions but ultimately gives rise to proteins and again those the differences in this function this output combined with differences in environments nutrition life fate things that we call things that we used to think of is very abstract give rise to a person that looks like this versus a person who looks like this this is a 1 basis of the difference but there are multiple bases of the differences but but this is an important basis of the difference we scientists then figured out the the nature of the code this is not a code that is hidden to us we now know exactly what this code looks like what what the code between RNA and protein looks like this is Marshall nirenberg in his laboratory and this is in fact I know Myrna Weissman who was Marshalls surviving wife but this is from this is a courtesy of Maria and this is Marshalls first it's a picture I took this is Marshalls first deciphering of the of the genetic code from his notebook one last aspect of this is to remind ourselves is that the genome is not a static entity the the genome as I said to remind ourselves of the analogy of the metaphor here is that your genome would be in every single cell would be a roomful of these Encyclopedia Britannica's but one cell you're the cell in your brain uses only one of them only only some of those pages only read some of those pages a different cell in your body a blood cell reads other pages and by reading different pages after by reading out different pages off that static encyclopedia your body can generate very very different functions it can generate very different responses to events and so forth and of course the no striking example of this is that this creature has exactly the same genome as this creature they both have exactly the same genome and yet the output of the genome produces a an insect that looks like this versus another insect that looks like this and has wings if you were both of them have exactly the same Encyclopedia but the but the way that the Encyclopedia is read the Selective reading of some pages allows one insect to look like this another stage to look like this and yet another station looks like this so there's a dynamism in in in genetic information that's important so that brings us really to the edge of what what where we are today and and what we have to discuss today which is now we're beginning to read and write the genetic code so until this point of time until the 1950s we'd begun to understand it but the moral dimension the ethical dimension the bio ethical consequences of what happens really begin from the 1950s onwards which is when not having understood the background we begin to actively read our code this is Fred Sanger who was on the first to develop mechanism to read genetic instructions so instead of that encyclopedia being in the abstract you all of a sudden could enumerate you actually say on page 347 the sequence reads ACTG DCTC it said etc and and here's another picture of I think we considered on the blackboard for a second this is Bob Swanson her Boyer but put on the blackboard concentrated on the idea that in in initially in bacteria but eventually in all organisms we could take pieces of genetic code pieces of genes genes as chemicals and and move them around from one organism to another so rather than again this being a code or a chemical that was somehow trapped in nature your encyclopedia is your encyclopedia mine is my encyclopedia never the twain can be switched changed altered we began to understand that at least in simple organisms you could take a page out from one of these from the encyclopedia of a yeast cell and put it in the encyclopedia of a whale cell just to give you a somewhat absurd example but it would be read because it's the same kind of chemical and the processes because of evolution the processes remain constant that's a you might say in 2017 that doesn't surprise you very much of course this was extraordinarily surprising when it occurred and in the blackboard you know this is the this is the basis of that moment on the blackboard here they are taking a gene from a bacterium and splicing it or putting it really into the gene in genome of a virus and it's just the simple arrow this of course took decades of work but this simple arrows suggests that you could just mix and match these you could tear out one page and put it into another page and we'd read as if the Encyclopedia was intact this moment did not get unnoticed the idea of human perfectibility and its alternative the idea that you could also have human beings that were genetically altered because if you know if so this is in the 1960s and 1970s technology is far away from this but the fear really begins to resonate and again I just remind myself there's a massive conference held at a SIL amar I write about this where a large group of scholars intellectuals journalists lawyers it was a public conference came together to ask the question okay we're this is in nineteen to 1970s to us a question okay we've invented these technologies it's you know we're starting to read the human genome we're starting to move swop genetical elements between between organisms what should we do should we stop should we put a moratorium on this capacity students protested remembering what had happened from the 1930s this is in Cambridge at a conference a conference interrupted we will create the perfect race this is Paul Berg my mentor at Stanford I still close friends with him one of the inventors of this technology whirring in this room in Asilomar about what would happen but what's interesting about it is that most of that meeting because of technical and technological reasons most of that meeting was concentrated on the possibility of biological crises or biological catastrophe so it was a it was really as Ilham are ultimately became a biosafety meeting it did not become a moral safety meeting of course by safety is moral safety their connection between them but by moral safety I mean what do we do what human beings what do we do about the future of human beings Paul and I had a conversation six months ago and we'll repeat it in San Francisco where I asked him on stage I said well Paul why what was the thought behind that why did why did it become why was the why was it that the that the biological dangers the the the biohazard took precedent over moral hazard and the answer was they had they really did not think in 1970 in the 1970s that this was real that there is anyway that sorry that the scenario of intervener intervening of human genomes in an embryo and thereby changing human genomes prospectively it was even conceivable it was technologically outside the realm of thinking so fast forward again and now we come to them to the sort of the final phase the the phase that we're living in now and that begins in 2001 and that begins with the the draft sequence of the human genome so now by 2001 the this is Fred Sanger again this is an older Fred Sanger who began to show us ways to sequence the human genome but by 2001 we had a draft sequence of the human genome not the entirety but for the most part the that encyclopedia that I had referred to the AC T GC CTG etc was was known was a finite we knew what lived on as I said page 347 in volume 335 and that was published in Nature and in science and of course as many of you know people who work in the field it's publicly accessible you can go and download it you can open it up you can look at not your own genome but the draft sequence of some human genomes is fully known you can log into it you can find what gene lives on where on that on that on various chromosomes of the human body so this was the first real act of reading the human genome so and by reading I mean knowing the letters the ACTG letters that constitute the Encyclopedia but of course there's a second phase of reading which is describing meaning we don't read just by acknowledging letters that's the first thing we teach our children when we teach them to read this letter refers to this sound that letter refers to that sound but the meaning the lies behind reading occurs when you begin to take that information and transform that in - meaning and that meaning has now we are beginning to really access the meaning of those a CT geez that project is far from complete but every day we begin to understand deeper and deeper meaning behind that sequence of inscrutable seeming letters so what do we know what do we know so far what are the general principles of this reading capacity well one thing that we know is that most human dream genes are controlled by most human traits are controlled by multiple genes height is a great example human height we now know that is control the variation the normal human variation in height is controlled by dozens of genes and by and conversely and perhaps relatedly most human diseases are similarly polygenic most common human diseases are polygenic one important feature is that many and by many I refer both to traits and to diseases have genetic links but the exact genes are unknown they're obviously outliers in this Huntington's disease there's one gene and it's extraordinarily powerful in determining if it's in if it's one variant the chances that you will live and die hunting disease are virtually a hundred percent cystic fibrosis is another example in which if you if you happen to inherit two mutant copies of that gene chances that you will have a cystic fibrosis like disease whether it's a mild version with a very severe version are nearly a hundred percent we also have learned and we refer to this idea before it's in it's an important realization that genes although there are dominant influence on our lives intersect or they are information readers they compile information at compile information from environment and chance now this statement sounds like a bland truth genes plus environment plus chance equals phenotype traits features it's not a bland truth at all that is in fact the central truth and many of us are living and one of the huge projects of genomics right now is to ascribe feature for feature the role of gene-environment and chance in determining phenotype and that is an incredibly important project and so as a consequence because of all this I said because most human genes are controlled by multiple genes most human diseases are polygenic a genetic report card will give you give us propensity x' but it will not give us actualities so rather than rather than there being you know again to give you an example Huntington's disease is the chances if you if you inherit the mutant version of the Huntington's disease gene gene the chances that you will have a the disease in your lifetime are hundred percent in contrast for most human diseases we now know most human traits it is rather a set of propensity is rather than a definite feature of your future that was this I call safe zones genetics these were general principles that were true we knew human diseases and human traits were part of multiple genes that were polygenic but the exact genes were not known but in the last five orders so if you think about again reading and writing reading genes and writing genes reading being the capacity to decipher information from the genome writing referring to the capacity to intervene and make deliberate changes in the genome both of these technologies are changing and that's really where we are today so I'll give you one example of something that happened last week this is the paper published last week in which the authors use genetic information alone to predict human height so on the x-axis is the predicted height based on genetic information on the y-axis is actual height based on genetic information and the trick to this paper was to unleash deep learning on the human genome so this is about several hundred thousands or 2,000 individuals this is now being generalized to 500,000 individuals on a bio bank and human beings human eyes our intelligence our standard ways of thinking about the world are not sufficient to predict height it's too complicated that was very safe because we could say God you know we understand that height has a strong genetic inheritable quality identical twins tend to be the same height particularly in the West where they were nutritional status is equalized if they don't have diseases and so forth if there's no great environmental influence if there's no accident or change in nature so we lived in a relatively safe zone and that was the zone of ignorance we said we cannot predict this it's too complicated we just opened about 10 or 20 days ago we opened a new box there by saying ok maybe human beings can't predict what of deep learning computational techniques could predict it and in fact this is deep learning on 2,000 individuals this are value people who are statisticians will know this is 0.64 it's not great but it's not bad either and we think based I spoke to the author of the paper we think the the the accuracy is within 0.6 centimeters so in other words forget about asking anything about family history forget about asking anything about the individual this just takes the sequence of a genome and using deep learning techniques spits out your predicted height and you get to about 0.6 centimeters of the real height this is morally complex universe because if we were to be able to predict this for unborn children in societies where height carries a premium if we were to generalize this across other polygenic diseases remember we were in a safe zone we said it's too complicated we can leave it all alone because it lies in some kind of weird black box we just put the black we just open the black box and inserted it into the human genome there are skeptics who will say this is an unusual situation you know height is very heritable apps correct others will say okay but what if you know what if you get too close enough with other things what if you get to the risk of cancer what if you get to the risk of Alzheimer's disease what if you get the risk of neurological diseases on one hand diabetes on one hand you can imagine a new kind of medicine that would be born out of that powerful ways to interrogate human beings predict people's futures on the other hand what if this enters territory like height what if it enters the territory of IQ whatever that measures what if it enters a sexual orientation we have just stepped using new arenas into territory that we what we thought was so complicated that we would leave it on its side now this is of course just the reading part right so this is just what's happening in reading so just to finish and summarize that arena obviously these points should be optimal to be evident to everyone this has consequences for virtually every human disease it has consequences for health maintenance surveillance and risk as consequence for insurance and risks risk sharing people often ask me well what about insurance and I said well insurance is a mechanism for risk sharing if you have it if you're ignorant about risk you can't have insurance when you are not ignorant ignorant about risk if all of a sudden you're all to be non ignorant about risk we would not be able to share risk anymore so the standard mechanisms that we have insurance would be challenged on a sidenote these are these are my I'm revealing my personal political proclivities I cannot think of a more strong argument for universal basic health insurance that in fact one of the consequences of of the deeper interrogation of human genetics has to be that we have to radically equalize ourselves when we realize that in fact we're radically unequal there's no other consequence so that that is the that is the so-called reading part of the human genome and then I'll move on to the writing part and and and I'll stop I'll read a section of the book where where all this is addressed so while we are reading we're also doing something called writing and by writing I mean changing the actual code itself so if reading involves going to the encyclopedia and deciphering the nature of information writing involves going to page 347 and volume 16 and erasing a particular set of ACTG and replacing it with a different different code this is a an article that I wrote for a magazine which I would encourage you to read about Braca one the gene that increases risk for breast cancer here's a picture of there's several people involved in this there are patents and cross patents and lawsuits going on about who owns this technology another enter that but anyway this is jennifer doudna I'm doing a talk with Jennifer in January and her a woman who is a lab manager but Jennifer of course as many of you very well know is one of the leaders in inventing technologies to allow us to change to make deliberate changes in human genomes this is a cartoon I have to remind ourselves that this is the this is not one technology is this a suite of technologies people somehow have become obsessed with one enzyme one gene Kaz nine CRISPR etc but Crispin Kaz nine are really a suite of technologies that allow us to begin to think about making deliberate changes in the human genome and here's one provocative kind of deliberate changes you might want to make on the human genome this is obviously a cartoon but to delete from a embryonic cell or an embryonic stem cell or a sperm cell the bracket1 gene mutation that increases your risk for breast cancer the the part of the point that that I'm trying to make is is this idea of a suite of technologies crisper and Kaz 9 our one element of a kind of area of technologies that are allowing us to circulate closer and closer and closer to making deliberate human deliberate changes in the genomes of humans and in the genomes of other organisms and and the the the fact is that these technologies will only enrich themselves and deepen themselves with the other two things that I talked about the writing the reading and the and the and and and deep learning techniques that we understand so the more we read and again remind us of it's like a child the more the child reads the more the child understands the more the child learns to write himself or herself and all of a sudden if you see that see this in your own children they go through a transitional phase when all of a sudden language the language that we communicate with becomes becomes fundamentally amenable to their own or own manipulation and I I really like to press this analogy it's not as if we're just reading or just writing or just or just learning it's the fact that these three things are converging together allowing us to learn the language of genetics and genomics and becoming more and more facile with using them a couple more slides one is that again to emphasize these this kind of suite of technologies here is a cross-section of a culture cell culture in which cells that have been genetically modified are being persuaded using techniques to become other cells and if you look closely you might identify what this cell is this is a sperm cell so this these are primordial germ line cells germline stem cells which are being persuaded to make sperm cells and it again does not take a much to understand that you can make changes in these cells in the cells that produce sperm and eggs and ultimately if you make changes in those cells the genetic changes that you're making will ultimately become changes in obviously and once they become changes in sperm they can therefore be transmitted not across one generation but across multiple generations so the contrast is with the example that I gave you at the beginning of the talk which is in my laboratory we work on blood stem cells blood stem cells if you make genetic changes in blood stem cells those cells remain in the person's body often for the lifetime of that person but when that person generates another human being they don't get transmitted so they are restricted to that human beings body on the other hand if you were to make changes in these cells these primordial germ cells then those changes would become permanently imprinted in every single cell of the person that's born because the sperm would give rise to every single cell of the person that's born are a few exceptions but also then become the sperm become part of the sperm and the eggs of that human being by definition and therefore the changes that you would make would be permanently imprinted on the human genome and the final possibility of course is that we're getting to a place as part of this suite of technologies where we're saying God you know why make all these changes like what I just said God but why make all of these changes in in a gene you know genome that already exists why don't make the whole thing from scratch it's a chemical you can string them together from scratch why don't we make larger and larger pieces of DNA why don't we get to the place of time we're making full chromosomes and make it all from scratch and so the the questions really have become can we read the genome before the embryo is implanted can we introduce genetic changes before making sperm and eggs we talked about that and the answer is yes we can and therefore can we read and write information into the embryo by making important diagnostic decisions in the embryo before so what what have we decided and this is where this is the this is the landscape that that that we'll be inhabiting right now so as you can imagine the the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Medicine met much like the Asilomar meeting to make some decisions about what to do about all of this and I found this report extraordinarily important I would encourage everyone to read it it's online you can find it online but this is of course the the bioethical report that came out of all of this I'm not going to ask you to read all of this but but it's important to reflect because we've already taken this journey in this talk that that three aspects were recognized one is that the possibility and I love this this idea that the possibility of diminishing the dignity of human beings is at risk as we move forward with these technologies the possibility of restricting respect for our variety is important and finally the possibility the lack of humility we might be we might be engaging in things that we that have a lack of humility in moving forward people who are in the field of bioethics know these principles very well but it was probably one of the first times when I think the the consequences for for human future have been so stark the the the limitations of the technologies were also recognized and have become recognized even in the last few weeks there have been three or four attempts in altering genes in humans whether these are safe whether they only hit one gene whether they can by mistake make other genetic alterations that we don't know of remain a question but I think it's fair to say that nothing in principle stops the field from moving forward I think it's also fair to say that within the next ten or years that we will know the answer to whether we can definitively make changes in the human genome or certainly in the genomes of other organisms I suspect in the next five years we will be able to quite definitively talk about making genetically modified changes deliberate changes in virtually most organisms particularly the ones that are involved in crop and food production in the in for humans so the National Academy proposed and I'm gonna and this is gonna be this is gonna be op and we'll stop here and this is going to be the the basis of I think the next few years of work the National Academy made three recommendations for the possibility of human genetic changes many of us I think including me had thought that the Academy would say we should stop we should put a cold we should we should go back to a colder moment a moment of reflection in which we say that we are not allowed to make changes in the human genome or particularly human embryos but it was I was personally surprised that the Academy said in fact it would be permissible to make changes in the human genome a permanent change in the human genome and these were the three principles it's interesting that they perhaps they're obvious but in fact I they're remarkably concordant with the with the triangle that I proposed in the in the book in the gene number one is that we make changes only if the gene of interest or the gene that we're changing produces what they call it extraordinary suffering in fact it's the same word that I used phrase I used in the book that in fact extraordinary suffering is a criteria number two that there's confidence that the gene in fact causes the disease the causal confidence between the link between the gene and the disease and that no other justifiable alternative exists and there's no coercion so the thought that I will leave you with as we enter the the Q&A session is the thought which occurs much must have occurred to all of you by by now which is who defines extraordinary suffering what is the limits of that definition is is extreme shortness extraordinary suffering in societies where there's a primacy placed on height what is the confidence line that we draw between the link between a gene and a disease so let's take the example of Braca one I mean I was giving a talk like this and a woman came up to me after the talk to the family history of Braca one of breast cancer and ovarian cancer and she said she would love to eliminate the bracket one gene from her lineage seems like there's extraordinary suffering if you have breast or ovarian cancer but perhaps is also extraordinary suffering if you don't and you live under the shadow of having breast and ovarian cancer in your future should we where do we draw that line what if we knew that there was only a 10 or 20% chance of having such a disease I've often asked this question you don't have to answer it often ask the question to his audience what if I were to tell you that your you've sequenced the genome of your unborn child and that child has a 5% risk of developing a lethal neurodegenerative disease how many of you would choose not to have that child and what if I switch that number from 5% 15% will it make a change and and and obviously individuals draw that number in different ways and finally this idea of no justifiable alternative and no coercion sounds quite reasonable sounds like a reasonable idea but to remind ourselves that we live at the end of a history where the the nature of coercion and the and the nature of what's justifiable are so linked in with our aspirations that what is coercive and what's not coercive often becomes fuzzy when it becomes real in the world the the culture around eugenics in the 1920s and 1930s was a course of culture it's the culture that took people who were otherwise supposedly liberal minded interested in in the in the rights of individuals and interested in in understanding the understanding and and and sympathizing empathizing with the plights of individuals and yet the culture was coercive enough that a state mandate was passed to to move them into into the into penitentiaries so someone asked me at the beginning of the talk you know are we ready to it what's your answer to the question are we ready to edit our genomes the answer is technologically we are getting closer and closer to doing that we have devised criteria to try to restrict our capacity to move forward whether you agree or disagree with that criteria is a question that you need to take up individually and just just to remind ourselves that this cannot be a conversation that other people have this is your genome by definition it is central to you it is one of the most it is one of the things that is most central to who you are it's stewardship is part of what we have to have stewardship over and the fact that this is a conversation that will resonate very widely across the next 10 years I think is very evident to me I hopefully evident to everyone so it's a moment I think to pause and ask the question should there be deeper criteria should we stop should there be more than this that we devise in moving forward as technologically we get more and more equipped to change our own genetic information so we will now have a conversation thank you very much and I'll bring my book with me thank you you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Xvymw5Pz0dA (https://youtu.be/Xvymw5Pz0dA) ===

I'd like to welcome to the stage dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee thank you so much we do go a long way back Suzan if I remember correctly you were my chief resident and if I was not always present it was because I was doing something else like writing books so you should forgive me thank you for this kind honor and thank you John and Mindy I applaud the critical work of the Bassett initiative at the and the Abelson Cancer Center your commitment to research on the bracket1 genes in particular and in cancer genetics in general extends beyond our understanding of just one type of cancer and it's very important to remember that there's a whole domain of cancers that are likely to be transformed by this research this research has already had wide-ranging implications for many diseases and will continue to have broad implications in the future that the journey through genetics is a personal story for all of us for me it is my family history of mental illness schizophrenia and bipolar disorder the defining questions of my childhood were to seek answers about why we're affected by some of these illnesses why are some of us affected what and why not others what makes one person susceptible and not his brother in a sense it's only app that this journey would intersect with my professional life I'm now as many of you know I'm now an oncologist by training I also run a laboratory cancer is a genetic disease at its very core and the world of cancer has already been rewritten through genetic research obviously we are here because our understanding of the bracket1 gene and the bracket two genes and the family of genes that surround these genes is under transformation research on these genes has allowed us to identify patients that have an increased risk for breast and other cancers and to preemptively treat these cancers tens of thousands and soon hundreds of thousands of lives have been and will be transformed by these treatments and diagnostic modalities and as many of you know we're now entering a narrow and big questions loom on how to deepen our understanding of risk how do other gene variants influence the risk of developing breast cancer in a woman with bracket1 gene mutation how or why does the environment add or subtract from this risk how can we give the best advice to women with bracket1 mutations to manage their care what is the best therapy if they should develop cancer and how do we manage the risks in a younger woman versus an older woman in the summer of 1983 the doctor writer and occasional poet Lewis Thomas published an enormous the influential book called the youngest science notes of a medicine watcher if that book had been written today a more appropriate title might have been the adolescent science we're in the midst of a stormy and contentious transition of a young discipline into maturity in short we're in the growing up phase of medicine much of this growing up has to do with our understanding of genes and the profound influence that genes have on our lives fates destinies and identities when I was preparing for this talk I went back to this recent book the gene actually I wrote this book obviously I didn't know the work of the vasa foundation I was surprised at how many times Braca comes up in this book it comes up at I when I when I looked through the index that comes up ten times in in a book on on the future and the history of human genetics partly because it's such an exemplar of the power and the transformative potential of using genetics to predict risk so I thought I would read one paragraph or two paragraphs about where where this thinking has gone and how again Rock has become an exempt of how we think about cancer risk how we think about mitigating risk and potentially how we think about treatment in the summer of 2008 I met a woman with a family history of breast cancer Jane Sterling's a pseudonym was a 37 year old nurse from the North Shore of Massachusetts the story of her family could have been plucked straight out of Mary Claire Kings Case Files this is a reference to Mary Claire King's work a great-grandmother with breast cancer at an early age a grandmother with who had a radical mastectomy for cancer at forty five a mother who had had bilateral breast cancer at sixty sterling had two daughters she had known about bracket testing for nearly a decade when her first daughter was born she had considered the test but neglected to follow it up but with the birth of the second daughter and the diagnosis of breast cancer and a close friend she finally came to terms with gene testing sterling tested positive for the Braca mutation two weeks later she returned to the clinic armed with sheaves of paper scribbled with questions what would she do with the knowledge of this diagnosis women with bracket1 gene mutations may have up to an 80 percent lifetime risk of breast cancer but the genetic test tells a woman nothing about when she might develop the cancer nor the kind of cancer that she might develop since the mutation has employed penetrance a woman with the mutation might develop inoperable aggressive therapy resistant cancer at age 30 or she might develop therapy sensitive variant age 50 or a smoldering variant at age 75 what should she tell her daughter's about the diagnosis some of the women with mutations hate their mothers one writer who tested positive herself wrote this hatred of mothers alone illuminates a chronic misunderstanding of genetics and it's debilitating effects on the human psyche the mutant genes are as likely to be inherited from her mother as it is from a father would sterling inform her sisters what about her second cousins what about her aren't the uncertainties about about outcome were compounded by the uncertainties about choices of therapy she could choose to do nothing to wait and watch she could choose to have mastectomies and or ovarian removal to diminisher risk cutting off her breasts despite her genes as one woman with mutations described it she could seek intensive screening with my mama gram self examinations and MRIs to detect early breast cancer or she could choose to take a hormonal medicine which would decrease the risk of some but not all breast cancer this shows how far we've come from her grandmother and her great-grandmother's case where the options were limited the capacity to screen and tell people about their future risk was extraordinarily limited the discovery of the draft sequence the human genome in 2003 was an indisputable milestone and understanding and yet it has created many questions as many questions as it has answered how much of that human experience is is determined by the environment what will happen when we learn to read and write our own genetic instructions or as john sulston the biologist put it what will happen when a machine learns to read its own manual I'm pleased to say perhaps for the first time in a public forum that in 2019 filmmaker Ken Burns and PBS will help further the conversation on genetics a national conversation of genetics when they produce a comprehensive documentary series based on this second book the gene and intimate history now we know that there are devastating diseases for which there are no answers but we also know with baraka as an exemplar that there are cancers that we once thought impossible to treat or to preemptively diagnose or screen for and these genetic discoveries were made in the 80s and 90s and are coming to life today immunotherapy yeah the idea that cancers could resist being killed by the immune system by activating certain genetics genetic genetic genetic pathways pardon me is also an idea that came out of genetics t-cell trials modified immune cells are gene therapies that recognize and kill cancer cells other ideas that came out of our understandings of genetics in the last few decades next year is the 15th anniversary of the human genome project through it we have gained moral biological medical and biochemical lessons we've learned for instance that genetics sits at the core of ourselves our selves and the new therapy is causing the revolution in how we think about illness prevention and treatment but to end I would caution that there are risks and excesses that are and there are moral and philosophical consequences that lie beyond medicine and science as we explore this new world of genetics and genomics as the political theorist Desmond King puts it one way or another we're all going to be dragged into a regime of gene management it will be in the name of individual health rather than for overall fitness of the populations and the managers will be you and me and the doctors and the state but we must recall that such regimes of management can drive fundamental inequalities in our societies that are already in equal when one population can access genetic tests while another population does not get screened or cannot get screened because of price we begin to drive deeper rifts in society and these rifts are not just cultural or or economic but they become genetic risks I like to think of the genome as a massive plea for equality and equanimity human variation abounds we know but our genomes are also more similar than dissimilar we are we are after all a surprisingly young species we haven't been around for very long just three hundred thousand odd years at tik-tok in evolutionary time so in fact despite the similarities the genome is a plea for a kind of radical conception of human equality as we move forward into a new era of genetics and genomics it is this fundamental desire to achieve equality despite variation that will mark the new century of the gene thank you very much [Applause] you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: YK9EFNbnU64 (https://youtu.be/YK9EFNbnU64) ===

We're thrilled tonight to have as our colloquium speaker, as you know, research scientist, oncologist, and Pulitzer Prize winning author, Dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee. Dr. Mukherjee holds a BS in biology from Stanford, a doctor in philosophy from Oxford, where he was a Rhodes Scholar, and he went to Harvard Medical School for his MD. He is currently an assistant professor of medicine at Columbia University, where his laboratory investigates malignant and pre-malignant blood diseases. Many of us know Siddhartha as a writer whose profound stories weave together human physiology with deep truths about the human condition. He was awarded the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for general non-fiction for his magnificent book, The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer. And he is now has completed The Gene, which I saw many of you have already bought and want signed, which is really absolutely extraordinary, both a personal journey and a medical journey into that genetic field. The Gene also has won numerous awards, was on many best seller lists, was a notable book for the New York Times, and the Washington Post, and Seattle Times Best Book of the Year. I must say this, it was also listed as one of Bill Gates' five must-reads for 2016. So, without further ado, let me bring up Dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee. Oh, thank you so much. It's a real honor and a pleasure being here. Um You know, this is one of these are hard lectures to give because the audience is very diverse, and every time I have to think afresh about um how to put together my thoughts on on a particular lecture. I just came back from the the the biggest cancer meeting that we have, which was in Chicago this year, and one of the things that that allowed me to do is to think about how the history of cancer is impacting how we think about cancer today. So, what I thought I would do is spend some time sort of tracing the journey of of cancer, but really in the last few minutes talk about the future, and talk specifically about uh how we're stringing together um plans to treat cancer in the future. And then and then I thought I would show a clip. As many of you know, Ken Burns and I worked on the documentary of on of Emperor for PBS, and in fact, Ken and I are doing The Gene, which will be done by 2019. We're in the middle of scripting and filming right now. But I thought there was a particular moment from that documentary which um sort of brought the the moral temperature to the right place at the end of that documentary, in which we go to a story of a human being who's going through the process of what I talked about, this ambition, this aspiration to to mount the the next epic battle against cancer using rational or precision therapeutics. What does it feel like to be a human being in that in that story? So, so I'll end with that with that clip. It's only 3 minutes long, but I think as I said, really for me humanized the the entire the entire book and the process of writing it. Um I've called the the the talk A Changing Landscape of Cancer, but as I said, I'm going to spend a substantial time towards the end of the talk talk about where we what the landscape where the landscape has brought us today, and what some of the thoughts are about about doing what's happening next. I'll be happy to answer questions at the end. So, we uh just just to give you a kind of a global summary of um of of this of this epic narrative. Obviously, cancer remains one of the most challenging um scientific challenges in the history of medicine. And if you look back, if you step back, and if I have if I step back from even even the writing of Emperor of All Maladies, it seemed that there were three basic phases that cancer had gone through, the history of cancer had gone through, our understanding. And I've called them genes, genomes, cells, cell genes, and genomes. And we're sort of in the in the fourth phase, if you imagine this history as four fundamental phases. I've called it cancer physiology. And it's it's seemed to me that our transition into this fourth phase of of the history of cancer, the medical history of cancer, and perhaps even the social history of cancer, understanding cancer as a physiological aberration and what that means, has enormous payoffs, but also has important considerations about what to do, what what patients feel like, what it feels like to be caught in the middle of this understanding. Um so, um where does the story start? People have written about cancer since in fact the beginning of writings in medicine. This is the Edwin Smith Papyrus from 2500 BC, which was subsequently translated, but case 45 is a particularly moving case, in which there's a description which sounds very much like a description of breast cancer. Of course, the word cancer doesn't exist. It comes across comes into human vocabulary much much later, and even when it first comes into human vocabulary, the word karkinos for crab is really a kind of lumpy word. It lumps together tumors of various sorts, including some benign, malignant. It really refers to a mass or a lump looking like a crab buried under the sand. That said, the disease cancer, like many diseases, existed um centuries, millennia before our understanding of the word cancer, even the word cancer itself. I find it an uncanny thought from the standpoint of medical humanities. I find it an uncanny thought that you all of a sudden when you name a disease, it sort of springs into existence like like Adam and Eve, but but of course, the the that entity existed in human beings for millennia before. And I I the one thought I keep coming back to is what did they call it then? How did they imagine it then? Um What commonalities did they find? Did people, you know, did they find a word for it? Was there a word for that particular kind of suffering? It's a thought that comes back to me over and over again as I think about this in the future. Um So, I talked about the word cancer, and and and the physiology of cancer, the idea of what cancer was physiologically. People spent a lot of time thinking about that physiology, of the pathophysiology of cancer. This is a supposed bust of Galen. And Galen was among the first to think about a systematic way of describing why cancer happened. Galen believed in, as many of you know, the humoral theory, that the body was was considered was composed of four cardinal humors, black bile, yellow bile, phlegm, and blood. And it was a kind of And every disease could be explained by some kind of aberration of these four fluids, a kind of hydraulic pathology. One thing went up, the other thing went down. Pneumonia was phlegm going up and red blood going down, or some version of that. And of course, for cancer, he reserved black bile. Um black bile is this fluid that had really never really been seen, but was somehow reserved for cancer for one other disease, and that was depression. In fact, melancholy literally means black bile. And so, this idea that this this the the twin aspects of of a physiological or a physical aberration and a psychic aberration, cancer and depression somehow entwined together. Um And of course, one thing that that that we know from from the past is that every time there's a there's a there's a there's a claim of of of understanding of cancer, that claim leads to an attempt to that metaphor of that claim, the the idea behind it, what it means, leads to an attempt to cure cancer based on that idea. Um so, the idea of of black bile immediately suggested that the that the way to cure cancer would be to remove black bile from the body. Here's a a Sculptetus mastectomy, which is brutal in and of itself. But what's interesting about it is that it was followed by a kind of purging ritual, in which they would try to attempt to move the black bile out of the local site of the body. Um that is itself interesting, but what's also very moving to me is this image from the late 1500s of of post-surgical care. Here's a Here's a woman that after her surgery has been bound up with an attempt to to produce some kind of a brace or or a palliation to allow her to live her life after the mastectomy. Um The modern understanding of cancer doesn't come about until much later. And as I said, every understanding every metaphor of understanding creates its own attempts to find medicine, and that medicine ultimately reaches a kind of plateau or ceiling and we have to find a new way of thinking about cancer. This is a a process this this this kind of knowledge in cancer it repeats itself over and over again. But the idea that cancer was a disease of malignant cells um was something that was brought by brought into being by several people but but remarkably by uh by Rudolf Virchow. Um Virchow looked down the microscope and began to realize that despite cancers arising from a variety tissues that there was a commonality between all of them lung brain cancer uh cancer of the liver and the stomach in all cases that there were cells that had were dividing abnormally. Um and so all of a sudden these diffuse entities uh as I said that the the lumping of the term cancer began to make some kind of physiological sense as a disease of cells. Cells were dividing abnormally dividing where they should not be dividing. It was a disease of of cell division and Virchow coined the term transformation uh and it was used subsequently after Virchow as well to describe the process by which a normal cell would become a cancer cell. Now that it's an interesting word because it implies two things. One is that Virchow based on his work had already figured out that cancer cells had to arise from normal cells. Now if cancer cells arose from normal cells then it so factor it follows that something must have happened to a normal cell just all of a sudden or maybe not all of a sudden make it into an an abnormal cell a cell that was dividing abnormally invading other tissues etc. So already in Virchow the question had been set up what was that something? What was that something that had happened to a perfectly normal cell that all of a sudden made it impossible for it to obey normal laws of cellular division and begin to divide normally. And if you read Virchow you you begin to understand that these questions had an elemental quality about them. Virchow wondered why wounds heal why if you make a cut in your in in your in a in your hand that wound heals and it closes itself but you don't grow a new hand. Um but in but but but but when a cancer cell divides it it reaches a place and then continues to divide Virchow thought it thought and then begins to invade other places. So so there was a there was a really a ruminative process of trying to tease out what cancer was in terms of cells. One idea that came out of that was that if cancer was a lump of cells was a mass of growing cells growing abnormally then we should be able to cut it out and remove those cells and thereby cure cancer. Um so this led to um the the golden age of cancer surgery. Um here is um uh uh uh Halsted William Stewart Halsted um who really would take that idea to um to its its its a kind of um manic perfection. Uh the idea that if if you removed cancer cells from the body uh that you would ultimately be able to effect the kind of cures uh that would that had been so fleetingly impossible in in years past. And for Halsted really that meant um Halsted is a fascinating character. I've I've written about him there have been sort of several important books and apparently now a new television documentary or or serial of some sort on Halsted. Uh I haven't watched it. So um but Halsted is a fascinating character because um Halsted was um among other things uh he he went to Europe where he witnessed the birth of surgery. Um he was a brave experimentalist and he began to use a chemical that they had that they had been using in in um in uh in Europe uh which was a derivative of cocaine to try to produce anesthesia. And in fact began to inject himself as an experimental subject and very soon he was addicted to cocaine. Um and so then he was sent he came from a wealthy family from New York and he was sent to a sanatorium to detoxify himself and the chosen drug for uh the detoxification of a cocaine addiction in those days was another medicine called morphine. So um so then he became uh doubly addicted to cocaine and morphine. Um and and the legend goes that he would scrub out of surgery inject himself privately in his in his rooms. He wouldn't tell the residents come back in complete the surgery and then go right back in and then give himself a second dose. Obviously a person who had perfected a a kind of sense of both restraint um but also this this this sort of uh secret life which wasn't discovered until even his his residents including Harvey Cushing didn't know for years later uh didn't know year until years later that that that that the surgeon had scrubbed out uh injected himself and come back right to surgery. It's an astonishing character in in history. But Halsted's um powerful idea again based on the cellular theory of cancer the passes powerful idea was that if you extirpated the cells if you threw those if you cut the cells out of the body and and remove the mass then you'd actually begin to cure cancer. Um and then he made a bold an even bolder hypothesis and that was that if that was the case then removing not just the not just the cells themselves but the tissue around it um would be would would actually get more cures. Um and so he on one hand was technically perfecting sur- surgical practice but on the other hand also began beginning to advance this uh radical hypothesis um that in fact if you cut more you would cure more. And he thought he would use breast cancer as his as his prime example and he began to edge along with his many students began to edge towards the radical the ultra radical and the super radical mastectomy cutting away more and more tissue in the hopes of curing um curing women of breast cancer. This is um one of Halsted's own it's an excerpt from one of Halsted's own papers um and it says something something very moving. It says the patient was a young lady whom I was very loath to disfigure. But of course these surgeries were disfiguring um and he ultimately committed himself to these disfiguring surgeries. One of the things that happens during this time is that uh the question of how do you know how do you know when that your more radical surgery is working? Um becomes a question that begins to have a sort of early ring in the 1940s and 1950s. Uh women begin to wonder you know I'm undergoing this extensive surgery that has removed not just my breast but also the pectoralis muscles beneath it. Maybe you know in some cases the clavicle bone the parts of the part parts of the underarm etc. How do I know that this was the is the is the best way to go? But the but the profession of medicine the way that we collect knowledge in medicine in particular in that time is so self-enclosed that it's not really possible to understand the answer very quickly. Um in other words the surgeon prescribes the the operation and and and and for a for a for a patient it's becomes virtually impossible to ask the question because there's no one who is willing to be part of the the so-called control arm of of a trial. No one wants the less radical surgery. Even the word radical meaning brazen or uh you know Halsted uses the word radical to from the Latin word from root uh as in radish. Um but the word radical also happens to mean uh brazen and and and new and and so what woman faced with the prospect of relapsing with breast cancer would uh say you know randomize me or test me on the non-radical arm uh when the surgeon himself trained in this culture of surgery uh and surgical practice is offering uh radical operation. So this trial becomes very tough to to run and it isn't really until the 1980s that the trial is finally run. And when it is run it's a it's a real shock to oncologists. I remember in my in my interviews talking to people from the 1980s and and and all of a sudden it was as if the the the ground under their feet had been shaken somewhat because the the the crown jewel of the theory that cutting more would mean curing more had been suddenly pulled the the the rug of that theory had been pulled out under their feet. Um and but this was the was the pivotal trial took about a hundred years to ultimately run that showed that local therapy uh with radiation and uh and and a local mastectomy was just about as effective as preventing relapse and death from cancer. And it's only in retrospect of course we know why. We know why because for women with metastatic disease for women for whom the breast cancer has already spread outside the breast more radical local surgery is ineffective because you're cutting more but you're not curing more. And and and sadly for women with local disease uh more radical surgery is ineffective because there is no disease that's outside the local uh disease to begin with. But what's interesting to me is not that conclusion. Of course that's interesting because that tells you something about the biology of cancer. What's interesting to me is the structure of knowledge that allows a hundred years to pass between between the between the first attempts at the surgery and that um and that conclusion. So at the same time um that that that this was occurring that the that the radical surgery radical mastectomy was ascending to its sort of zenith um another idea of trying to kill cancer cells was was beginning to take birth. The second was surgery it was was radiation. I'm not going to talk about radiation today here but the third uh of course was the idea that you could kill the cells using a chemical poison of some sort. Um Paul Ehrlich the chemist had fantasized about this um but it wasn't until the release of uh mustard gas at Bari Harbor that uh in fact this is from that first paper um showing that you could get um you could get cells toxified by small doses of mustard gas uh that would allow the birth of uh chemotherapy such as nitrogen mustard. Uh the same sort of poisonous toxic gas now converted into a uh into a form that could be given to patients allowing that gas to kill cells. Um it was not a gas anymore, it was a liquid form nitrogen mustard to kill cells um and thereby try to uh get cures of cancer by by cell kill. And that um idea of using anti-metabolites anti-chemicals to kill cellular growing cells regardless of the of why the cells were growing. No one still knew why cells were growing abnormally, but that but the idea of using um using a a poison or an anti-metabolite was also used by several people including Sidney Farber, a pathologist and therefore doctor of the dead, uh who began to use antifolates in uh in in uh acute lymphoblastic leukemia in children. And by the 1950s and 60s this idea had gripped oncology uh that somehow if you took not just one chemical poison but two or three or even four that you would begin to get the you could you could achieve the kinds of things that a generation before had struggled to achieve that you could somehow uh combine these chemical poisons again without knowing the the the the reason that the cells were dividing abnormally. These were these were usually compounds that were found empirically um either because of of because they were natural chemicals or because of an enormous discovery program that the National Cancer Institute had launched by the 1950s and 60s uh to try to find such specific cancer chemicals. And lo and behold there were seminal successes. Um so by the 1950s um Frei and Freireich um um at the National Cancer Institute had demonstrated that childhood lymphoblastic leukemia, a disease that carried nearly 100% mortality a decade ago, began to sort of uh slip down a slope uh of mortality uh becoming increasingly curable so that by the by the 1950s and 60s 30 to 40% patients had longer term remissions. By the 60s and 70s almost 60 to 70% of patients with this previously lethal disease now treated with combination chemotherapy began to have long-term remissions and potential cures. So this was a radical moment in in the history of cancer. And when you when you talked to people um who administered these chemotherapies extremely toxic drugs uh six seven drugs often at a time for pediatric ALL the drug regimen would eventually swell to about seven to eight drugs given in combination uh often leading to almost two years of therapy for children. Um when you talk to people you get a sense of the of the infectious enthusiasm that they had that this was the final key that these empirically derived cytotoxic cell killing poisons given at the right dose would push people would push patients right to the edge of life but then push cancer over the edge and and yank the person back and thereby getting the cures that had been so fleetingly impossible uh so fleetingly rare and impossible in in earlier decades. Um and similar results combination chemotherapy combined with surgery combined with radiation uh were obtained in a couple of other cancers including Hodgkin's disease. This is Henry Kaplan from Stanford and the National Cancer Institute in the 1960s. And in in in childhood leukemia as I said before and in some other cancers such as breast cancer after surgical and radiation therapy the addition of chemotherapy really began to start getting longer term survival. So there was a real moment of infection um uh an enthusiasm and optimism that this would be the missing key that we had lacked for so long. Um and uh this project was was embraced not only by scientists not only by physicians but by people in in but by people in society who were beginning to see their loved ones uh suffer from cancer. This is Mary Lasker whose husband Albert Lasker would die of um uh colon cancer and Mary Lasker became one of the fiercest advocates of of opening up biomedical research to more funds opening up the National Cancer Institute reorganizing it and launching what would eventually be called the war on cancer. So this was an advertisement if you woke up in the um in uh uh if you woke up one morning you would uh all of a sudden see in the back page of the New York Times and the um and the Washington Post um this massive advertisement saying Mr. Nixon you can cure cancer from the Citizens Committee for the Conquest of Cancer. Um uh Mary Lasker herself was was involved in in this kind of adverti- advertisement. And if you look at the fine print somewhere along it says, you know, we expect this to be done it's a 10-year project. Um we expect this to be done in 10 years if we had just released the the funds. To me what's interesting about this poster is the single C cure and single C cancer. Um one disease one cure one form of a cure. Uh perhaps it's combination of four four or five or seven chemotherapeutic drugs again discovered empirically. Um no one who wrote this advertisement could tell you if they if you asked them uh what causes cancer um no one could tell you definitively what the answer was at that time. There would there would be a big debate in the field about what the common cause was of this one C cancer. And this of course led to the vast expansion of the National Cancer Institute budget um starting from the 1970s going up to the early 2000s but only a very modest effect on cancer mortality. Um here are data from up to the 2000s looking at um male versus uh female cancer mortality in the United States. Um the expected curve uh in in uh red of course expected is just a straight line um and the actual mortality which there was a there was a a flattening but it wasn't the 10-year Mary Lasker uh expectation that this curve would dip down and vanish into zero which had been imagined by those advertisements. Um Now what's interesting is that if you looked within the world of cancer you began to see uh if you if you decon- convoluted those those uh plots and looked within the cancers you began to see actually very interesting patterns. So obviously it with lung cancer and bronchus cancer you see this phenomenal rise and a fall driving much of this flattening and that's primarily a prevention uh prevention driven uh strategy that is the cessation of smoking so the anti-smoking. Um but for other cancers you see some somewhat different patterns. Stomach cancer um uh i- i- is very dominant in the early part of the century and then slowly falls off for reasons we still really don't understand. Um there's some strong hypotheses about why. Um other cancers like leukemia somewhere here uh slowly drop off. That's mainly because of chemotherapy and cure. And then breast cancer somewhere in the middle where it's a combination of many things. Um changes in epidemiology changes some role of preventive screening some role of of of of treatment and therapy um and and ultimately leading to about a 1 to 2% decline in breast cancer age-adjusted breast cancer mortality for the last uh 10 or 15 years. So the question as we edge towards the 1980s in the field was if those efforts had really come to a kind of plateau should we go back to the drawing board and start to reimagine what cancer was. What is cancer? Um what is cancer? Where does it begin? And and what is the commonality? Why is it that cells in these diffuse parts of the body um have have started undergoing this this process of malignant division? And that brought us right back to Virchow uh to this idea of transformation. What had happened to that normal cell to convert it into an abnormal cell? And there were four major ideas about what had happened. Uh one was heredity. So this is a Brazilian ophthalmologist who had observed cancer moving through multiple generations in the eye. Um so so he and others had thought that some hereditary component uh later called genes had to be involved. Um this is Percivall Pott who thought the environment had to have a role because um he had a Pott had observed um that chimney sweeps going up and down chimneys young boys had a high incidence of scrotal cancer and something in the in the chimney soot must be causing this this cancer. Um Uh for the longest time people knew that chance was involved um because you could get cancer sporadically within a family with a heavy history of cancer you could get cancer sporadic sporadically even within that. And just uh down the road um Peyton Rous had um argued that viruses were the cause of cancer. So it was a little bit like a like the the blind humans and the elephant um in which everyone had a theory but they were feeling parts of the theory. Somehow or the other these four pieces had to be resolved. And that was ultimately resolved in the 1980s um by by bench scientists by basic scientists who made made the observation now central to to the theory of cancer um that alterations in growth controlling genes cause cancer. So all of a sudden these four pieces began to make sense. You could alter the growth controlling genes by right you can inherit the the genes, the altered genes. BRCA1 mutation is one example, Lynch syndrome another example. Those genes could be mutated by the environment, carcinogens. In fact, interestingly, Pott coined the term carcinogen way back when, long before it was even known what it could be. They could be mutated by chance and and viruses could either mutate them or or create circumstances where the genes would become mutated in cells by carrying in genetic material or causing inflammatory stimuli and so forth. So, all of a sudden these four theories began to converge on the idea that genes were centrally involved. And this cancer all of a sudden made that transition, that leap from a a disease of cells to a disease of genes. And what's important about that was it was also realized that these very genes, genes that control growth and metabolism and are mutated in cancers are have normal functions. So, in fact, cancer was a distortion of the normal of normalcy. Uh the very genes that cause our embryos to grow uh turned out to be the genes that cause that when mutated cause cancers to grow abnormally. The very genes that allow our wounds to heal or cells to move um are abnormally regulated or abnormally mutated or mutated, sorry, or abnormally regulated in cancer. So, and and I I I like this phrase that was picked up from from an old uh the the the tale from Beowulf that cancer was a distorted version of our normal cells. So, the question then turned to if alterations in growth controlling genes cause cancer, how many are there and how common are they? Is it one gene? What is the So, going back to Warburg's house question, is it one gene per cancer? Is it three genes per cancer? What is What is the nature of this genetic abnormality which causes uh cancerous change? And it was very clear that it wasn't one gene. That was the That was That became clear quickly because the technology was available to do that. So, here is a picture from Bert Vogelstein's early papers, one of Bert Vogelstein's early papers, showing the that process, Warburg's house famous transformation process. Now, walking through it, and on top you see the process of transformation and the bottom you see the genetic correlates of that process. So, one gene mutates to a second gene, adds a third gene mutation, fourth gene, and others, ultimately leading to the process. This is an old diagram. Not all Not every piece of this uh would apply currently um uh right now. In fact, we don't believe that there are many genes that are mutated between the metastasis of a cancer and the primary cancer. But, that said, this was a process that was expected to happen. Many genes were mutated in a single development of a single cancer. Um much modified in later years. And that led us to um an appreciation that cancer was not just one it was not the result of just one genetic aberration, but many. And so, now we could ask the question, enabled by not genetic, but genomic technology, how many How how these genes overlap? What was the genetic overlap between one cancer and the next? So, so here's my schematic of it and we're actually now getting pretty close to current times. So, things are a little bit more complicated, but but I I it's it's worthwhile walking through this because this knowledge will allow us to start using these, I think, in in in today's world. So, so so stay with me for this slide. It's This is just a depiction of of a is a schematic in which let's say a woman with breast cancer walks into a clinic and all her genetic all her genes are splayed out from her first to her last on a piece of paper, schematically, and we can identify the mutations that she has in her cancer. And here you have eight different mutations in her breast cancer. So, that's your That's the map, as it were, or fingerprint, her genetic fingerprint of her cancer. Here's a second woman who comes into the clinic, maybe has for all intents and purposes, Warburg had looked down the microscope, would have seen the same cancer, breast cancer in the right breast. Halsted would have operated on the same cancer. Um uh Farber would have given her the same chemotherapy for her for that same breast cancer. But, if you look at the genetics of her breast cancer, it turns out that that her the genes that are mutated in her case have some similarities, but are different from the first. Here's a third woman would have gotten the same chemo from Farber, would have been operated the same way by Halsted. Um you know, would have gone back to the same place um in medical therapy for decades, and her cancer looks completely different. All breast cancers uh incidentally. So, in the '90s and in the early 2000s, we um began to organize I can say we because actually we actually began to sequence this in in our laboratory in the early 2000s for leukemias, but um began to organize this information into into So, so rather than be nihilistic about it and saying, you know, if every cancer is its own cancer, um then how on how on earth can we treat this disease? In the history of of medicine, there is no disease I can think of in which every instance of a disease is its own instance of a disease. I mean, even when even with the phenomenal diversity of viruses, in cancer you begin to have an example in which every single instance of a disease is its own instance of of a disease. Every single specimen is its own specimen. So, rather than be nihilistic about that idea, the first attempt was to organize that information. Can we create a Can we create a map to see what this looks like and in fact, you can collapse uh the common dots into big peaks and the rare dots into small peaks. And this is what actually look will will looks like. So, this is colorectal cancer. This map has been vastly more refined since this original publication. But, as you can imagine, this is what a cancer looks like to a cancer genome biologist. With big peaks, and people who are in the field, you know, we could call them some names, KRAS, uh APC, whatever, but big peaks of genes that are frequently mutated in this one cancer, smaller peaks, and then little dots. This dot, again to remind ourselves, belongs to one human being with one specimen of cancer. It is not shared by any of the 40, 50, 60, 100, 200 other cases of cancer of the same type. But, um nihilism aside, um this led to uh the idea of so-called targeted therapy, that we could actually use this genetic information and if we could now drive chemicals to lodge into the gene products made by these genes, if these genes were really driving the malignant proliferation of cells, we should be able to shut it off as almost like a lock and key. And certainly in some cancers, like chronic myelogenous leukemia, this was achieved uh by the uh early 2000s. This is a molecule that many of you know called Gleevec, imatinib, um and this is the gene product of uh in leukemia, a product called BCR-ABL, um and and and Gleevec, synthesized entirely chemically. This is not a molecule found in nature. Human beings made this molecule. Um can lodge into the cleft of of a cancer-causing gene product and essentially shut it off. Um I find personally, I find this technology just mind-bogglingly beautiful. Uh you know, in in the age where people have talked about how social media is an interesting technology, it sounds like child's play compared to making a molecule from scratch, building it like you're stitching something together, and then making it lodge into a cancer-causing um gene product. Um anyway, uh that uh that that's the That's the pivotal trial from from that from CML lives to treat CML. I still treat CML. And it was a it was for us it was it was like uh it was as if someone had dropped a miracle on on our on our laps. This is the pivotal trial which showed what happened with um patients being previously This is survival curve. So, every little dot is a patient that's dying over the course of time. Um and uh this is what happened when patients were treated with either old therapies, interferon or chemo, and this is that same survival curve when patients were treated with Gleevec. They basically their lives became normalized. And it was it was truly watching I mean, I was in in I was at least I I I I experienced one edge of it, and it was truly like watching a miracle coming uh into play. Um and and similar results, although not of that magnitude, were found in other cancers. This is Barbara Bradfield. Um I've written about her. Um uh she was She was the first woman to receive Herceptin for HER2-positive breast cancer. Again, a genetically entity you genetically had to annotate the cancer to confirm that in fact, that genetic aberration was present. What wasn't present in every breast cancer. That's why that arrow shows only a little bump. Um but, if you had that genetic uh aberration, um then um this is again from that pivotal trial. This Barbara Bradfield is a dot in this in one of these trials. Um you would have um really spectacular response. So, this is uh in in in breast cancer that had metastasized, if it was HER2-positive, uh the use of Herceptin a dramatic change in 5 years of disease-free survival from 60-some percent to 85%. This was a pivotal victory in in breast cancer and certainly in cancer therapy. A targeted drug that if you genetically annotated the cancer, would have a remarkable effect. And then, um the next step in the 2000s was to use this uh approach, and rather than treating late, rather than treating women whose cancer had already metastasized, we went back to some extent to Halsted and said, "What if we treat those patients who just had local breast cancer but had the potential of spreading? Who in the future, 10 years from now, might have relapsed metastatic breast cancer? What if we use that same drug on those patients?" And here is that trial moving a survival from 86% to 91%. So, this was I mean most people in oncology would consider these trials pivotal because they began to change the way we think about cancer because now all of a sudden you could begin to create a a new formula which and a hypothesis. So, what could it be that if we detected the cancer early enough, understood the potential of metastatic spread in some people personalized it using genetic annotation and delivered targeted therapy, would you now begin to see the kinds of cures that have been so hard to get in or or or remissions or treat long-term survivals that have been so hard to get in the previous years? Um So that was where the field sat for a while and now that we're living a time in which we're trying to flesh out and test that hypothesis. Um The the the the writer Lewis Thomas who I'm a an enormous fan of, a physician writer, um at practice, you know, was at NYU for years um wrote about an astonishing moment in his lifetime when he began to see the application of the rational precepts of medicine on the therapy of of people. So, rather than treating diseases as if they were arbitrary and and had to be managed symptomatically Thomas began to see the application of these so-called rational precepts to the treatment of heart disease for instance, heart failure, or the treatment of pneumonia. The understanding leading to the therapy. And it was it was both a frightening time but also an exhilarating time. And that's sort of where we're edging towards oncology of I just it's it's I've likened it to being the adolescence of a field where we're in kind of peculiar adolescence where we're starting to understand or try to understand physiology and launch this this grand experiment. And what do I mean by physiology? And that means that when we've looked to find gene, you know, the idea that we would find the Gleevec for every cancer has turned out to be not easy and in fact not successful. We've tried to look for these Gleevec-like sort of exquisite molecules that turn off and cancer-causing gene products but we haven't found them very easily. But rather than doing that, the question is if you imagine that these genes don't act in in or genetic networks don't act by themselves, they act in networks, they act together much like normal cells. Much like the physiology of normal cells, could you interrupt something specific about cancer's physiology? For instance, could you somehow interrupt the physiology of growth, its metabolism, its capacity to escape from the immune system, etc.? And for a for a wider public, you could you could make this analogy of of a of a machine of the cellular cellular machine rather than attack its individual components which we were trying so desperately to do when we saw when I saw that transformation with with drugs like Gleevec, could there be pieces of physiology? Could there be not just the cogs but whole little systems of physiology that were being attacked in this case the the so-called hallmarks of cancer. And that's we're trying to do that now by stitching together various therapies, immunological therapies and various other therapies. So to to to to return to the hypothesis which I think is is is the is the intriguing hypothesis, the question that we're asking ourselves is will this triangle help us? Will early detection, genetic annotation, and biological annotation, and personalized therapy somehow or the other yield the cures that we haven't been able to achieve in the past? So so just to summarize this again, the question that that that that I'm intrigued by is is what have we learned in these last 10 odd years? It seems that we've learned that targeting a cancer's unique vulnerabilities particularly in combination yields successes for some cancers. We've also learned that targeting a cancer's microenvironment and its physiology, so not just its cellular physiology but the physiology around it is possible and effective in some cancers. And that early therapy including definitive local therapy, surgical therapy, is more effective than late therapy for some cancers. And again, I just remind myself of ourselves of that pivotal Herceptin trial in which we took patients who were who had who had metastatic disease versus early disease. And and this again leads me to wonder about this grand experiment. Early detection plus deep personalization including genetic annotation of tumor environment plus targeted therapy in combination against tumor environment, will this get to get get us to that place? You might have noticed I haven't talked about prevention at all. The reason I haven't talked about prevention is that it's been quite difficult to get prevention into this funnel as it were. It's because for some reason or the other our capacity to eliminate major carcinogens including smoking have suffered, although we've identified those carcinogens have suffered because of the appropriate deployment. But on the other hand, for the last 10 or 15 odd years, we haven't really found major preventable chemical carcinogens. We've looked, maybe we haven't looked deep enough, maybe we haven't looked with the right methods but but major preventable chemical carcinogens with large public health impact have been hard to find in the West. There are still some in the in the world at large, viruses certainly qualify. We found some important ones. But in in in in this population, in this audience, when people ask me, "What should I do? What what what chemical carcinogen can I remove from my own living my lifestyle, my environment?" It's been hard for me aside from smoking. It's been hard for me to to to to to come up with with reasonable answers as to what they are. And that's going to be a major challenge as we move forward. But but from the from the standpoint of treatment, this this is this is an experiment that we that we are certainly launching right now. And and here's a here's the here's sort of the the full experiment which is, you know, could we combine early detection, deep personalization, and targeted therapy and then do maintenance and surveillance, basically bring patients back into the same circle so that they would once their cancer was in remission or or maybe was been removed has comes back. Uh in terms of storytelling, I I maybe I'll finish with this this one story. This is my friend um uh who is a young man. This is a picture of him taken eight years ago. My friend Will Kirsky who um has has a a tremendously aggressive malignant melanoma. Um and he received um long cycle of immunotherapy. Um was in a very was in a deep remission for about a year and a half and then sadly recurred and relapsed and is now on a second second trial of a second targeted therapy. He's basically going through this through this through this process. Um one thing that struck me, I don't know I've written about this, I don't know how many people had a chance to read it. One thing that struck me is that when I saw this picture taken eight years ago, this is Will at a at a friend's wedding. Um you think you can see that culprit lesion right there the the melanoma right there. Um but in fact, you'd be wrong. The real culprit lesion is this one. Uh just underneath his hairline. That other lesion is still remains and is completely has not progressed. It looks to you know, looks like a malignant lesion to every dermatologist and yet that one has not progressed whereas the one under his ear which which was barely visible became the aggressive malignant melanoma. And that is one of the things that of course is part of detecting these cancers early. We are using beginning to use deep learning tools including this one. This was published recently which which take things that are to the human eye look just as malignant as any others but then reclassify them using algorithms we don't even understand. We don't understand because these tools are black boxes and reclassifies them as malignant versus benign hoping to pick up this this melanoma. Um and one of the major concerns or talks is how on earth are we going to then treat? I mean if this melanoma is picked up in in in a in a human being and removed, do you then give them that same kind of therapy with Herceptin, some kind of drug like Herceptin which will extend their lives and at what cost? What what is the what is the what is this what is the cycle then this patient enters into and how on earth are we going to afford these kinds of cyclical therapies in which patients cycle between early detection, personalization, targeted therapy and then return back to maintenance and surveillance? So um I wanted to end therefore by talking taking taking a step back. Um I've tried not only to capture something about cancer as a as a medical experiment as a biological experiment but also as a cultural experiment. Cancer has of course invaded our lives, our vocabularies in a way that was would have been unprecedented in the in in the late 1800s. Um Um the the the sociologist Erving Goffman writes about the idea of a total institution. A total institution is a place of work where a great number of similarly situated people together lead an enclosed formally administered round of life. Total institutions have their own vocabularies. They have rituals. They have cultures. They have They have rights of leaving and entering. There is the the guilt of survivorship in an institution when others have departed it. There's a guilt of departure from the institution. There's a language that surrounds you in that institution itself. Um I wonder whether as we enter this grand experiment of oncology in cancer therapy in the mid-2010s where the surveillance and the possibility of overdiagnosis and overtreatment and the idea of previvorship, the idea that you're a survivor of a disease that you haven't yet had. A woman with BRCA1 mutation is a survivor of breast cancer even though she hasn't yet had breast cancer. A man with a pre-melanotic mole treated as a pre-melanotic mole is a survivor of melanoma that he or she has not yet had but is receiving preventive treatment for that future melanoma. Um So I wonder whether we we we run the risk in this language of creating a total culture and the total institution and what that means for the lives of patients. Um so on that note just spanning, you know, epic narratives become individual narratives when you change the focus to individual humans. Um and so what I thought is I would end with um a a a piece that a a a that that comes from the film that Ken and I made on on Emperor of All Maladies. Um And it was an extraordinary piece because we were looking while we're making this film we were looking to capture try to capture someone who was in this cycle, in this cycle of knowledge. And some through channels someone brought news of an extraordinary cancer surgeon, breast cancer surgeon named Lori Wilson who was herself diagnosed with breast cancer in the middle of her surgical practice. You can imagine the the enveloping levels or the aspiring levels of irony and and defeat and also but also for her enthusiasm and optimism because she had been very much at the at the front itself. Um kept coming back to to me. Lori has subsequently became become a friend but she really through an act of extraordinary generosity basically ignoring all the sorts of rather draconian regulations that don't allow us for for some good reasons but really don't allow us to tell patient stories really allowed us to enter her life because she thought it would be she would contribute to some broader knowledge. So Lori's alive and well today in the middle of of several this sort of cyclical rounds of of of therapy. But I thought I would end by bringing you to day zero of her of her entry into the total institution of cancer. And I'll I'll thank everyone beforehand and then take questions after. So here's a clip from Lori entering cancer world as she calls it on day day zero. At least he tasted it. You're a funny boy. Mommy likes cherries. It's been a month since Lori's diagnosis and her 20-week regimen of chemotherapy has begun. Yum yum yum yum. I got you. Yes. I'm with Lori. Hey, how you doing? Nice to meet you. Thank you. I'll go first. Yeah. My husband actually is going to shave his head with me and so we will until my hair grows back we'll both be bald together. He's my rock. He's been there for everything. He's looking good. Y'all forget I've been bald-headed before. 20 years ago. Yeah, before Lori and I got together in the first winter when I grew my hair and then Lori liked my hair and I haven't shaved it since. Aw, what a story. So cute. Next. Yeah. That's me. That's completely You can take it all off. Okay. That's completely You okay? It'll be okay. I don't buy into the why me because so much of cancer is not predictable. It's not set on family history or any feature and so absolutely could be me. Hey Nae Nae. You recognize Mommy? I have a 19-month-old and I want to see my son grow up. See my son get married and go to grad school and you know all the the good stuff that uh we expect for family. And with this diagnosis um that's more difficult thing to see. Thank you. I'm happy to take any questions. Sorry. I said my name is Lippy Roy. Um I'm with NYU Department of Population Health and so prior to my moving to New York where I now oversee where I was overseeing addiction efforts at Rikers Island. I was a doctor to Boston's homeless population and never in my career have I diagnosed I personally as a as a general internist diagnosed more cancer than at that time in my career. We found out later that the leading cause of death amongst my patients ended up being drug overdose which overtook cancer and heart disease but and I know you touched upon prevention a little bit but I was wondering if you could talk a little bit just about the really the complex medical and psychosocial aspects that really go into all of our patients' lives. Um you know, our our patients struggle with trauma and depression and mental illness and substance use and all these can act as barriers to getting the care that they need not just in terms of prevention but even throughout the treatment the proper diagnosis and treatment of of of our patients. So I just wonder how you think would be best to really engage our patients in getting the treatment that they need and to just how best to navigate that. Thanks. Oh, it's so much outside my area of expertise. I I wish I could tell you um um what you know, I know you're I know some of your work at MGH um or in Boston. Were you at MGH? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I I know that the the the the areas um it just lies the the challenges there as you pointed out are enormous. Um Let alone this this the you know, this kind of this this scholarship enterprise grand experiment which will happen on you know, 35 people in in an incredibly isolated setting in a laboratory-based hospital program in at Memorial Sloan Kettering or Columbia or some place like that. How this is to be generalized across multiple populations I just boggles the the brain. Um right now I just don't have an answer. I just don't know how to navigate the the many complexities of levels of complexity right up from the the genetics, the genomics, the targeted therapy, the maintenance and the surveillance. How on earth to get that to scale is a question that is entirely outside the realm of even my imagination. I just don't know. I don't know. Thanks for that video. Very poignant video. Thank you. Thanks. Hi. Thank you so much for your talk. Um I guess as as a as an individual who's a lot of my social groups I'm one of the only scientists and especially one of the only geneticists and cancer biologists. Um, I always get the same question like so is everything on genes is everything based on genes and you know, I like to say yes sometimes and sometimes no. All right, such a weird answer. And I guess my question more than a picking your brain a little bit is the idea of trying to get this genomic point of view because it's not as easy as just going to the doctor getting your genome sequence because a lot of the mutations that happen in cancer are not going to happen globally are going to happen in a specific environment specific tissue. So what are your thoughts or what is happening in in a broader impact to to get to that to that question trying to prevent something that hasn't happened yet because you don't know where it's going to happen. So you're asking whether whether we can detect at the genomic level patients where cancer has not occurred yet like bracha one. So bracha one is a good example in that case so a woman has a bracha one mutation her cancer has not happened yet. What what is what is what are we doing in terms of moving forward for patients like that? Well in that case many of you know very well in fact this is one of the trial sites for that. We're trying to figure out we're trying to do aggressive monitoring of those patients. They have many options. Um to to figure out what what and how to be aggressively monitored. It's a it's it creates a particular this is I I wanted to talk again remind people of this the total institution of cancer. I I was giving a earlier I was talking about a woman who had a bracha one mutation. She came she she saw me she had two daughters both of whom were pre-adolescents and only one of them tested positive for bracha one. Remember these children have not even developed breasts let alone had breast cancer and yet her relationship with these one of these two children is fundamentally changed. So on on so so so my general perspective on all this is it sounds it it's a wonderful thing if we could screen and detect early these these cancers that would be a wonderful thing would prevent hopefully save lives and prevent more aggressive treatment down the road. Of course it has social and and human consequences and not clear it's not clear to me we've thought through all of them. It adds to this idea of cancer as a total institution in which you're constantly being monitored for cancers that that haven't even occurred. You're a constant pre-vivor. Now imagine instead of bracha one you you magnify this across multiple genetic mutations or multiple genetic susceptibilities. Of course some would be very dominant like bracha one but others you would be you would be you would enter this kind of cancer world that people like Lori Wilson are already part of. So I think that that there's an enormous potential there. We just have to be I think it's worthwhile being careful about the total institution of constant surveillance and diagnosis. Thank you. Wait. Hi. My name is Cecilia Acersante. I do family medicine. Yeah. I did a few years of basic science research in thoracic oncology and I really enjoyed your presentation and your book. I wanted to know your opinion on on the stem cell theory of cancer development. So there are many stem cell fields of cancer just to clarify there's not one stem cell field of cancer. One step one field of cancer one one stem cell cancer interaction or intersection is do cancers behave like stem cells and a subfield of that is are there cancer stem cells? Is there something about self-renewal that's recapitulated in cancers? There's been a lot of work done on this with with some similarly positive data. The second field is the use of cancer is the is the use of stem cells to treat cancer. Really is a separate entity and there you know in in in the cancers that I treat leukemias and lymphomas we've had certain successes with with using blood stem cells but aside from that that second field therapeutic use of stem cells in cancer has been much much more limited. So I think the the the idea that there's some fundamental kind of malignant self-renewal that that stems that cells pick up which then becomes translated into the growth of cells is very it's an attractive idea has not really translated thus far into attractive therapeutics. Do we have time for one more? Sorry yes you were up there first sorry. Hi. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay I'm Alexandra and I wanted to ask you about the finding a balance between technical expertise in a field where you need to have so much technical expertise and retaining the appreciation that you have for individual stories and for what it means to be a human with this disease and what it means to be a human with any disease and how this affects the human condition and also to have this really immense technical expertise in this ability to find radical new ideas um that have actual like technical physiological effects in these patients while not losing sight of who the patients are. Yeah it's a beautiful question. You know I I it's it's obviously that's that's something that I I think all doctors struggle with. The the you know nose to the ground kinds of things that happen when you are treating patients. I saw patients this morning and it was I was uptown I saw one patient this morning and it's interesting in the afternoon then giving a lecture sort of a meta lecture on where we're going in cancer having sort of undergone that action myself earlier during the day. It's it's a little bit like taking a plane ride and all of a sudden you see the same landscape from the from the airport and you all of a sudden are several several miles above looking at that same place from several miles above and it can be it can be very disconcerting. I think that's I think it's a struggle that all doctors have. I think it's something that that the profession makes you think through and one of the one of the extraordinary ruminative capacities of medicine is to do precisely that is to somehow or the other um not lose what it means to be you know while you're in the in the technical weeds not lose not lose the sense of what it means to be a human being. Um I think that that to me I I write to think um and my writing to think allows me to actually to have that to to to to to ascend that change in in landscape without having very acute moral vertigo. Thank you. So Ed thanks again. It was provocative and wonderful. Please join us outside we have refreshments. Those of you who would like to buy and have a book signed please line up at Alumni B. Thank you very much.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Yva2rcjtQKc (https://youtu.be/Yva2rcjtQKc) ===

your favorite scientist Albert Einstein why uh general theory of relativity [Music] you know you said in the book you don't believe in rebirth um but do you believe in destiny uh you mean you mean predetermined Destiny yes no do you believe in do you believe that there's life on other planets yes um your favorite scientist Albert Einstein why uh general theory of relativity okay now I'm going to try to get you to play a game okay it's called use reduce stop okay so I'm not asking for scientific explanation large none of that I'm just imagine you're talking to your dearest loved one somebody who you know you just your family whoever and I'm going to tell you a substance and would you tell me to use it reduce using it or stop using it okay okay and this is in the context of cancer because we don't know what really is carcinogenic now what isn't so easy one tobacco you'd say stop stop microwaves uh use plastic packaged drinking water uh don't know um plastic packaged food any plastic package food I don't know but if your loved one is eating from a plastic package food you would not comment so um aside the answer is I don't know um I can tell you what I do in my own practice yes which is that I use uh but I don't hate you don't eat okay um dairy uh use um artificial food colors uh don't use artificial sweeteners don't use but not for cancer reasons I don't use it for reasons that have to do with Endocrinology more than anything else 5G 5G as in cell phones yes use use okay cell phone towers cell phones yes you use okay Wi-Fi routers use hair dyes uh stop that has a lot of reaction I got the age profile right now from that response um silver cling foil so the what silver cling foil a tea actin foil you mean tin foil as I use use okay well this is uh this has been great so thank you so much

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Z2_8sqN4qis (https://youtu.be/Z2_8sqN4qis) ===

prevention yeah what's what obviously an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure you hear all that stuff but while we're waiting for cures or or a way to turn this into a chronic reality I mean can you just sell people flat out like don't do this do this don't do this here Sure Fire ways things you've learned well the first five things I would say don't smoke don't smoke don't smoke don't smoke don't smoke that's really that really is isn't it yes well why do I see doctors and nurses outside the waiting room smoking all the time because it's an addiction and and it took it took it took 50 years for for you know for us to con convince the courts that it was an addiction but I mean I'm not being fous smoking is a major major part of it diet has a small role for colon cancer um a small role a small role yeah U you know but definitely a role um you know ionizing radiation sun exposure um and then you know the the preventive screening has has roles in in all of this uh colonoscopies mammograms they're they're not the mammogram we talk about in the book is not the best te technology but it's a good piece of technology that's what we have right now right and and are there other things coming down the pipe that you're excited about well uh there's a new study that makes the argument that if you if you take people who are high risk smokers at high risk and you perform CAT scans you can detect cancers the problem is that if you it's much actually for dollar for dollar it's it's much better to knock the cigarette off the person who you see smoking outside than to perform a you know $6,000 CAT scan but if that's what works it it's what works that would be amazing he just start a random campaign instead of running for the Cure piss off smokers for the Cure just start smacking out of their hands I would love it if that happen don't do it um the uh I'm going to get sued [Music] now

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ZLi3kGns5g4 (https://youtu.be/ZLi3kGns5g4) ===

you will meet some of these pioneers not just the scientific pioneers but the patients who pioneered these therapies on film um because we wanted we wanted to really highlight their stories because they participated as much in the process of bringing a medicine medicine that will impact millions of people to life by sacrificing their own lives taking risks that others wouldn't take and you will meet them and i and i really wish that they would become uh sort of etched in our in our national memory forever because their sacrifices are just as deep as other soldiers who fight for us in other places

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ZO1QV9EiEIA (https://youtu.be/ZO1QV9EiEIA) ===

welcome to instigators of change a coastal Adventures podcast where we take a look at innovative ideas the people who come up with them and those who invest in them [Music] I'm Kara Miller and today tough talk on cancer which has been a top killer in America for decades in the 2000s the idea was that oh you know you would sequence cancer cells find genetic mutations in them and then find drugs that Target those genetic mutations The Physician and writer Siddhartha Mukherjee says that idea mostly fell flat and it's time to admit we badly need something new we have as a community have to acknowledge that if we don't acknowledge that we will be not a scientific Community but something else co-founders of fight Therapeutics talk about a different way forward we're not going to chemically engineer our way out of this problem I think we've got to think orthogonally and really do the physiological work to starve these tumors that's just ahead on instigators of change [Music] after Neil Armstrong landed on the moon in 1969 [Applause] Richard Nixon triumphantly announced and this was just a couple years later what became known as America's cancer moonshot the goal being as Nixon said the conquest of cancer it's a little bit like saying we're going to send a rocket to the moon without knowing Newton's Laws Siddhartha Mukherjee is a physician focusing on cancer and an assistant professor of medicine at Columbia he won a Pulitzer Prize for his book on cancer the Emperor of all maladies when the cancer Moon shot was launched we understood very little about cancer this was a time when there was a big debate about what cancer is as a disease is it a viral disease is it a genetic disease is it a combination treatments were also perplexing to doctors and researchers and there was a real danger to this moonshot Mukherjee says people thought kind of what the actual moonshot in the 1960s it was going to result in something concrete we had landed on the moon maybe now we would Conquer Cancer but then we didn't so here are the stats more than half a million Americans die of cancer every single year Mukherjee has become convinced that we just have to do something different and that he says means looking back at some very old research which may never have been really embraced in the way it should have been almost a hundred years ago starting with work done by Otto Warburg there's been this idea that in terms of metabolism cancers share very very different cancers breast cancer leukemias pancreatic cancer share a metabolic dependence on nutrients so what if you could figure out how cancer cells which behave differently and deal with energy differently from other cells in your body what if you could figure out just what nutrients the cancer cells need to thrive and then not let them have those nutrients Mukherjee is seeking to answer that question as a co-founder of the company Phi Therapeutics along with several fellow researchers and Physicians Anand Parikh is also co-founder of Phi Therapeutics where he serves as the CEO the research phase is becoming overwhelming that this is almost certainly a new therapeutic approach akin to surgery radiotherapy or drugs that Precision Nutrition is just waiting for its time in the Sun as it relates to cancer treatment and just go further on that for laypeople what the heck is Precision Nutrition and what have people found in the lab like what kinds of manipulations of nutrition have they done and what have they done to the cancers yeah I think these are very specific manipulations intended to look at what's the organ of origin so Sid said is it breast cancer what's the prevailing genotype is it hurt to you positive what's the drug that's being used to treat this cancer and then we look at the nutrients that are needed by that particular tumor type and that's where we find the commonalities that Sid was mentioning and you know we've seen research on things as varied as serine and glycine deprivation insulin deprivation histidine supplementation methionine these very specific nutrients we find that particular tumors or particular groups of tumors acid alluded to have a excess Reliance on these things and that if you take them away it harms them and what we've seen in many of the pre-clinical studies is tremendous tremendous outcomes in some cases greater than we would see with traditional drugs literally diet being more powerful than chemotherapy in pre-clinical models in pancreatic cancer you know a horrible horrible disease that now we're hoping to bring some potentially new treatments to Sid let me switch over to you when we think about these really obscure nutrients that many people have never heard of what does it mean to an actual patient to try to deprive this cancer mass in their body from getting access to one of these nutrients that apparently the cancer does really well with well first of all let me just say that these are not obscure nutrients okay okay these we may not have heard of them but it doesn't mean they're obscure yeah these are fundamental nutrients that Cancers and our bodies depend on okay in order to function physiologically so these are nutrients that we can manipulate because our body can make them but cancer cells are uniquely dependent on them I often like to use the analogy of the Achilles heel cancers have Achilles heels too we just have to find the Achilles heel and these are nutrients that our bodies can make our bodies can survive with our bodies can even survive without because we can make them ourselves but cancer cells are uniquely dependent on them if you deprive them of the nutrient the cancer cells shrivel up and die so I really think about nutrition as a completely novel axis of oncology of cancer therapy it's never really been fully explored and it's a novel axis it's an axis that really lies outside the traditional sort of chemotherapy radiotherapy surgery axis because no one has aside from you know experiments done 100 years ago no one's really fully looked at how important it is for a cancer cell to have nutrients because nutrients is are the ways that cancer cells grow there's no other way there's no other mechanism by which they can grow so just on a practical level what does it mean for Joe the cancer patient not to have you know I don't know glycine in his diet what does it practically mean for this person who has cancer what do they do on a day-to-day basis it means changing the diet but let me emphasize that these are not radical diets these are diets that we've devised and are continuing to devise that have to do with very particular manipulations and these very particular manipulations have to do with you know maintaining normal diets normal nutrition normal energetics but with something that's different okay and those differences I think the emphasis is on the fact that these are tolerable achievable these are not like you know you go on some crazy these are very specific Precision diets which almost mimic your normal lifestyle except you and you wouldn't notice it but the cancer cell would notice it uh do you have any thoughts about it yeah I think that's very fair and I think you know Sid mentioned the variegated nature of all these tumors and the diets are just as multitudinous right it will be different for each particular group that is taking a particular intervention uh dietary intervention it will be different the Precision Nutrition will be different so whereas someone who is being deprived of glycine may have a particular type of diet someone who's being deprived of cholesterol well theirs will look very very different so there are differences there I think one thing we've tried to do as a company is as Sid mentioned make it as easy as possible on the patient so we will send them literally everything they need to their door to make it as absolutely easy for them to comply as possible underlying all of this it seems clear from what you're saying is this idea of precision that like everybody is different so it feels like underneath all the the food and thinking about amino acids is a pretty hefty level of I think this wave that we're kind of part of this idea of precision Medicine of like using computers to figure a lot of things out about who needs what is that fair I think that's absolutely fair and I I'd like to draw a line you know Sid sort of talked about Warburg and his initial work in the 1930s and then how Sid and Lou and Karen and others have been publishing papers over the last 10 years you know showing how thinking about organ of origin genotype and uh and drug can provide us with a level of specificity that maybe Warburg didn't foresee and I think in the future once the FDA is able to contemplate this I think we're not just going to see you know small slivers of people on very specific diets I think we're going to see n of one Precision Nutrition so that the breast cancer patient the two patients who said mentioned who have breast cancer but a very different in terms of their mutational status in terms of the physiology and the etiology of their tumor will have slightly different Precision Nutrition prescriptions and you know the way we figure all of this out because I think the data is so voluminous and it's too difficult for any one person to comprehend is we have a machine Learning System that literally spits out the difference in every single phenotype genotype of tumor and the difference between use and production in nutrients and from that we can then surmise that a particular tumor will have different uh needs than another one that otherwise might look quite similar so this could be for either of you and it's a bigger question than Faith because if so much importance is placed on kind of the machine learning the data analysis that has to be done because as you said like there's so many inputs no person's gonna like sit down and compute this Are We There Yet with like how good data analysis is how good machine learning is because I think people think of curing cancer or getting further with cancer as like you know relying on men and women pipetting things in a lab right but we're really talking about a different set of tools and I just wonder how far along you think those tools are we're talking about the both of those tools together so we're talking about you know using machine learning to help stratify the world of cancer and then using experiments in the lab to further drill down and validate um so I think it's a mix of both the other thing I would say is that even if the machine learning isn't good enough today or isn't where we would want it to be perfect today uh unfortunately neither are cancer drugs right so yeah we sort of see this situation where I was thinking about uh a drug called and hurt you that got a standing ovation at ASCO with a 40 odd percent response rate you know there will be uh we won't be perfect in having every patient respond to a particular Precision Nutrition intervention but even if we break those you know sort of 30 40 threshold it can be practice changing for many diseases Sid what's your take on this well I would Echo Evan's ideas and I would say that's not 40 or 50 because it will likely be more because well we're targeting are not particular mechanisms or genetic mutations that Drive cancers we are targeting the general physiology by which a cancer cell grows and that's been you know the Holy Grail to some extent of cancers in the 2000s the idea was that oh you know we would sequence cancer cells find genetic mutations in them and then find drugs that Target those genetic mutations right right that was the big idea right that idea I think has turned out to be aside from a few cancers a great disappointment and we have as a community we have to acknowledge that if we don't acknowledge that we will be not a scientific Community but something else I'll give you an example after about two decades of research a drug was created around one of the biggest drivers of cancer called Keras it was a drug that was specific to that mutation and it was specific to the idea that that mutation would drive the Cancer's physiology when the drug was used in a typical trial it was a positive clinical trial all good but the progression-free survival was you know nothing that one would applaud 12 months 18 months I don't remember the number this is a reminder that cancer cells are incredibly plastic in terms of their capacity to resist drugs that are targeted to the mutations that drive their growth hmm and I would say that we as a community of oncologists have turned our heads away from the idea in the 2000s and 1990s that oh you know there was a linear idea you know find the mutations Target the mutations kill the cancer cells end of story right it has not worked out to be that so we need a new paradigm and the new paradigm is to say that you know that old idea was a good idea but it wasn't right and so we need a new paradigm a new paradigm has to be that we need to Target fundamental physiological mechanisms in a cancer cell s that are different from a normal cell and thereby Target cancer it's a completely new idea and I cannot emphasize how revolutionary and how much of a difference this is in the standard thinking about cancer the standard thinking about cancer is oh you have cancer sequence it find the mutations and find the drugs that will Target the mutations right that has not worked it has not worked not only with minor mutations it has not worked with mutations that are known to be the major drivers of the cancer cell so we can put like ostriches our heads in the sand and say oh you know let's go on this way that has not worked and if we keep putting our heads like ostriches and sand it will keep not working we need to find a new way forward which lies outside this kind of linear logic of find the cancer find the mutation and find a drug that blocks the mutation that is not working one thing I would add I think what Sid said is so important because it totally undercuts the prevailing Orthodoxy and I think it takes a lot of courage and I'm not sure there are a lot of people with enough courage to say what Sid just said that essentially ever more fine-grained discovery of smaller and smaller mutations and better chemistry is not going to solve this problem of cancer we're not gonna chemically engineer our way out of this problem I think we've got to think orthogonally and really do the physiological work to starve these tumors and let me add more to that I've tried to understand the prevailing orthodoxies and I've tried to reconcile myself with them and no one was more excited than me when we found a drug that would Target one of the great mutations drivers in cancer like eras and yet no one was more disappointed in the results and so we have got to change we have got to think of new paradigms do you feel like it's an issue of sort of ignoring something that's systemic that I mean it sounds from what you're describing like you've got a building and people are looking for the brick that's messed up but in fact the problem is like the air conditioning system like it's something that is not confined to just one little place it's more part of the how the entire system works um I've I've been saying this for forever I mean I think that cancer is a physiological disease the cancer cells are physiologically different from normal cells and the more we explore that physiology outside finding mutations is the best way to move forward um I wrote a piece in the New York Times called cancer should not be about mutation hunting cancer is a physiological disease most diseases every disease that we know of is a physiological disease but physiology I mean it integrates multiple aspects of human biology there are signals that go between cells these signals can counteract or even inactivate drugs that we send with great Precision to cancer cells and cancer is one of them so I stand by my belief that unless we understand cancer at a physiological level we're not going to be we're not going to move forward on and um let me ask you a little bit about food one of the things I've found over the years is I've spoken to different doctors different researchers is that food even though we know it it is very important in keeping you healthy it's often doesn't get that kind of credit I mean there have been you know like little programs where doctors are allowed to prescribe vegetables and like you might be able to get those for free but if you find that food really can help with cancer how do you get a sort of establishment that's uh really about pills um and and other kinds of medications to accept food as part of like health and medication I think that's a great question I think the first thing is proving efficacy if you can prove that this treatment modality can deliver outcomes that are you know off the level or greater than traditional Therapeutics I think there will be a Groundswell from the patients themselves saying look this is something we need to have access to because it's going to help us live for longer and potentially cure disease and so I think in many other disease States the power of food is already recognized you know you look at diabetes you look even at cardiovascular disease to a degree you think about inborn areas of metabolism uh irritable bowel syndrome pediatric epilepsy there's a variety of diseases where we do acknowledge and understand the power of food in either managing or treating those diseases I think it's only a question of time until it comes to cancer and once it does and if it demonstrates efficacy of the same degree or greater than drugs then there's no reason why it should not be uh paid for it to uh in the same way I've often said this and I often you know repeat it but I really do mean it I hope that if fight is successful that we have a hundred competitors very very quickly because we alone will not be able to do the work needed to truly explore this entire new access of treatment we need a lot more people in the space very very quickly and just to add to Ireland's point I mean you know food is a chemical chemotherapy is a chemical targeted therapy is a chemical there is no fundamental difference between food as a chemical chemotherapy is a chemical targeted therapy is a chemical these are all the same things they just come by different names if a chemical or an enzyme like l asparaginase can deplete asparagine in the body and thereby really make a difference in pediatric leukemia there's no fundamental reason why depleting asparagine in another way whatever it might be could make a difference in pediatric leukemia they're just chemicals and the idea that food is not a chemical is absurdity because of course it is so my general point is that as a chemical food has been underexplored and should be more deeply explored as one other axis of chemical therapy for cancer in which we are not dependent so much on as I said the the find the mutation and find the drug strategy which has not worked and I think one of the thing to add to that the Precision Nutrition interventions we're talking about Cara and not things that generally an individual can do by themselves you know okay uh earlier on you said well what would an example be right you know if you're depleting serine Glycine and Proline nobody's going to have any idea where to start and how we do it right right does that mean I order pizza or pasta like nobody knows that's right it's not that simple right it is a chemical in many ways it looks and feels to the patient like food but they're drug-like components to it as well do you see Precision Nutrition as doing the heavy lifting here or is this a situation in which yeah I mean I know there have been studies where let's say a diet like a keto kind of diet has made a drug much more effective because that kind of diet appears to sort of pave the way for a drug to actually work you know what I mean can you give me a sense of is this an in conjunction thing or is this an end in itself I think it can be both I think in some cases you will see Precision Nutrition that makes Adverse Events disappear and that makes the drug more effective I think some have Sid and lose work has shown that I think in other cases you will see that the nutrition itself can be a very very valuable therapeutic strategy in and of itself which Karen valzan and Oliver and others have shown as well so I I think it can be both I think it just depends on what's needed you both think that this area of cancer research is really promising if you look out five or ten years does food feel to you like the most exciting area are there other sort of Realms that are also being explored that you find like these are also really promising paths into you know cancer research well you know I think that you know immunotherapy showed us something very important and again let me emphasize this what we learned from immunotherapy against cancer using the immune system against cancer is that you didn't need necessarily to sequence every tumor because the immune system was largely agnostic to what sequences what genetic mutations the tumor had the immune system reacted to the changes the physiological changes in the tumor itself things that didn't have to do with whether it had a mutation in Keras or dnmt3a or or whatever it might be I think more and more we are moving away from a time in which we're saying to ourselves yes Precision medicine is important but Precision medicine is not the sequencing of tumors it's something much broader it is understanding the physiology of the tumor what does it depend on one tumor might depend on its capacity to draw out blood vessels another tumor might depend very highly on histidine yet another tumor might depend very highly on glucose metabolism and so the way I see moving forward is really understanding Precision medicine not as what I call sequencing medicine and moving forward in in a way that we understand Precision medicine as a mechanism to understand the brain of the tumor the mind of the tumor the physiology of the tumor and using that as a mechanism and of course nutrition is absolutely Central to that idea and do you think of what faith will provide to patients as being like when you go on certain diets all your meals are pre-packaged and sent to you do you see that as being like the thing that you give to patients yeah so I think what Fife does and delivers to patients is a tripartite approach what we do is we have Precision Nutrition we have drugs and we have software and we wrap them together in that unified package okay so we do all of them we make sure that the drugs we're providing you know work with the Precision Nutrition as well and that they're both optimized for each other but that's what I anticipate that these patients will be getting from fight okay do you think because there's a big piece of this it's food and maybe in some cases for some people it's just a food thing could this be cheaper than other treatments because one of the real problems we've seen with cancer drugs especially in recent years is they're just phenomenally expensive I think I think unfortunately so I hope that they can be cheaper I think in manufacturing because we are actually manufacturing food to a degree they will be more expensive because you know manufacturing each additional pill is pennies manufacturing a meal is not but I do think that a lot of that will go to the FDA you know the overwhelming cost in drug development is sort of in the clinical development of the drug it's not actually in the manufacturing um it's mostly in all of running the trials the regulatory hoopla and all of that stuff so I do think that in the future with this treatment modality if the FDA can stop thinking creatively that we could then be able to bring treatments to the entire globe that are much much cheaper than traditional uh treatments I think that's the other great thing about this approach right is that immunotherapy and other biologics are quite difficult to manufacture and administer outside of sophisticated Medical Systems like in the U.S and Western Europe I think our intervention has the ability to be delivered in almost any setting uh theoretically and then a final question for both of you which is um give me a sense of the timeline here like how are you going to know when things work if people are listening and they're very interested and they agree yes we need a different approach to cancer what does that road ahead look like I mean the timeline is now I mean we are already deploying we are already making diets we are already combining them with Kim with targeted therapies the timeline is now it'll keep being now it will keep being now more but uh Anand can answer it more but we are in the middle of Trials okay okay that's right I think you know we're very very excited about the trials that we have ongoing but I am hopeful that in you know the next 12 to 18 months let's say that we have data in our hands that can show the entire world academic or otherwise then Precision Nutrition can be this fourth pillar of Cancer Care as said mentioned and will those results in 12 to 18 months allow you to move through the door from trials to like the wider World they will allow us to move from I would say mid-sized trials to really large trials that will prove definitively the value proposition now that's my assumption that that will ultimately be of course up to the FDA and then if everything were to go well how long would it be do think from now that something would actually be on the market and a doctor somewhere could say well you have this cancer and here's we're gonna use Fife like how long would that be do you think hate to Hazard a guess at that because we we're ready you know the company is ready and ready to execute it's really in the hands of uh The Regulators to a degree so I'm hoping in the next few years the next two to three years that we can kind of be at that point uh but ultimately it will depend on what The Regulators need to see uh to believe got it okay is a co-founder and the CEO of fight Therapeutics Sid Mukherjee is also a co-founder of Fife as well as a Pulitzer prize-winning author a physician and an assistant professor of medicine at Columbia thanks so much to both of you pleasure my pleasure thank you Carol [Music] and thanks as always to you for joining us coming up next week we find that for successful Venture capitalists they actually aren't very swayed by Charisma and passion at all they actually look for that rationality and a clear and well-explained Pitch more than anything else so I just would urge people to think about even if they think they're not good at some of the skills that they might think they need for startups that doesn't mean they can't be successful subscribe to instigators of change wherever you get your podcasts and leave us a review our show is produced by Matt Purdy I'll talk to you next week [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: _FNMuIK0qKw (https://youtu.be/_FNMuIK0qKw) ===

>> David M. Rubenstein: So Sid, 
you are trained as a medical doctor 
and you're a Rhodes Scholar. And life has gone pretty well
for you. Why do you work so hard trying
to write books that are winning Pulitzer Prizes and so forth? Why not just be a doctor and
just serve your patients? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well,
 I think that that the books also serve patients. And I think it's important to
understand that there are many ways that you can serve
patients. One of them is by bringing them
into the world of medicine. And that I think of my my
writing as --  as part of my practice of medicine. I don't
think they're different. >> David M. Rubenstein: For
 those who aren't familiar, you were born in? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: In Delhi,
in India. >> David M. Rubenstein: And you.
Went to college at Stanford? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I 
did. >> David M. Rubenstein: You won
 a Rhodes Scholarship and you got your medical degree. 
Where? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: At 
Harvard. >> David M. Rubenstein: Harvard. 
Okay, and you're an oncologist? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I'm 
an oncologist, yes. >> David M. Rubenstein: And
 you're practicing medicine now while you also do writing
and other things. Right? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Right. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay. 
So your first book, major book, won the Pulitzer Prize. And it's hard to write your
first book and win the Pulitzer Prize,
but you did. It was called cancer "The Emperor
 of All Maladies" so what is the chance
of anybody in this audience is going to get cancer if they
live to be 75 years old? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, 
the numbers are on the order of 1 in 3 and 1 in 4.
So 25%, 30%. >> David M. Rubenstein: So
 cancer has been around for ever? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Forever
yes. >> David M. Rubenstein: And where
 does the word cancer actually come from? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: It 
comes  from the Greek word karkinos for crab. And people thought that kind of
a tumor buried under the skin looked like a crab buried under
under the sand. >> David M. Rubenstein: So 
for somebody the most deadly cancer is that glioblastoma is a
pancreatic cancer, liver cancer. What is the worst kind of
cancer you can get in terms of survival rate? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: What 
a morbid conversation, but. >> David M. Rubenstein: I'm
 going to ask you about better cancer. So are any of those I mean, if
you get those things, you got a tough problem, right? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Yes,
 I know. And there are so many things we can do. We can talk about car accidents,
falling off the roof. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay. 
All right. But like, if somebody says I
have prostate cancer today, you can --  if it's not spread, you can
probably get reasonable treatment and can live, right? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: That's 
correct. Yeah. There are many cancers that
have changed. I mean, an important statistic
to remember is that the mortality from breast cancer
for women has been decreasing by about 1% every year for the
last 25 years. >> David M. Rubenstein: So 
if you. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So 
over 25 years, it's decreased by about 25%. Now, that sounds like a 1%. Sounds like a small number, 25%
to 30% over the last three decades is a big number. >> David M. Rubenstein: Stage
 one, if you. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: No, 
no, no, no, no. >> David M. Rubenstein: This is. >> 
 Siddhartha Mukherjee: Overall 
mortality  from breast cancer, period. >> David M. Rubenstein: If you
 get if you detect breast cancer in stage one, 
you have a 97, 98%. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Correct. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay. Why is it that certain cancers,
the ones I mentioned, you typically only know that you
have them in stage four, like pancreatic cancer. Why is that? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: They 
tend not to cause symptoms, you know, and they tend to only 
present at advanced stages. I mean, other cancers you can
detect, they often have symptoms, you feel X, Y or Z,
and that's why you go to your doctor. >> David M. Rubenstein: Oh, if 
I wanted to not have cancer, do you not drink alcohol, not eat meat, go to
church every Sunday. What is it that you do that
prevents you from getting cancer? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Going
 to church will not prevent you from getting cancer. So you could still go to
church, but. >> David M. Rubenstein: Synagogue 
maybe I don't know. But Okay. All right. So the best way
 to prevent getting cancer of any type of cancer 
is to lead a clean life. Don't drink alcohol. Don't -- >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: The best 
way to prevent any kind of cancer is to stop aging and 
stop getting old. So that would be -- >> David M. Rubenstein: What 
about genes? It's the best
way to prevent having cancer is to have parents who didn't have
cancer. Is that right? Genes? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: No, 
I mean I mean, obviously the the current ideas about preventable cancers is that
genetics is a contributor. But and absolutely a
contributor. But you know, when we talk when
we think about cancer, we really think about preventable causes
and non preventable causes. So genes are non preventable
causes. You don't choose your parents, >> David M. Rubenstein: Right. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Your 
parents might choose you, but you you don't choose your parents. So. So there would
that would be that would be among the non preventable
causes of cancer. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay.
 Now, as an oncologist, you presumably have 
to tell patients sometimes they have cancer. How do you do that? Why do you. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I never 
tell patients they have cancer? No, that's a joke. >> David M. Rubenstein: You don't tell 
them that or? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: No, 
no, no. I'm totally joking. Yes, of course I-- it's, it's the
central occupational hazard of my job. >> David M. Rubenstein: So
 you tell people, look,  you're a nice person,
but you have cancer. And how do you do that
gracefully? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: That is 
not the way I tell them. >> David M. Rubenstein: What 
do you tell them? What do
you tell them? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Usually
by the time they've come to see me, their suspicion is already heightened because
you're knocking on the door of an oncologist and and not a
dermatologist. So usually the conversation
begins with, you know, Doctor, what are my chances? What kind of cancer? What what stage of cancer do I
have? How long am I going to live? And so forth. The the conversation that I
really want to have around around those issues, not around
what what medicines they're taking is I typically ask them
to undergo a series of exercises which I think are very
important. One is I ask them to forgive themselves. Um. >> David M. Rubenstein: It was
 not their fault? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: It's 
not their fault. Yeah. I asked them if they need
to forgive someone as an exercise to sort of get rid of
a lot of guilt around what's going to happen next. Because
the journey often is very tumultuous. That that starts. From that first meeting, I
asked them if they need to tell someone that that they love
them or if they need to be told by someone that they are loved. A lot of this comes as part of
faith building, relationship building with patients. >> David M. Rubenstein: The 
best way to know if you have cancer is to go to an annual, get an annual physical, or do
you recommend annual physicals to know if you have cancer or
something else? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So 
annual physicals tend not to pick up most cancers. There are cancer detection
focused ideas. Annual physicals tend not to
pick up most most cancers. >> David M. Rubenstein: There's a 
view that there are certain dogs that can smell cancer and people. What do you
think of that theory? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Not 
particularly convinced. I'm convinced they can pick up
food in my in my airplane bag, but not not particularly
convinced that they can pick up cancer in my body. >> David M. Rubenstein: So
how did your life change when you won the Pulitzer Prize for writing this book? All of a
sudden you're not only a well respected oncologist, but
you're a famous author. So did you have to spend more
time outside the medical world or did you not do that? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: No,
 no, I did. You know, as I said, I mean, I don't think of my writing as sort of separated
from my practice as a physician. So, you know, I suppose I took
it in stride as part of the thing that I had to do. >> David M. Rubenstein: But it 
seems as if cancer is on the rise, or at least the incidence of cancer is up
because people are living longer or we're better in detecting
it or is cancer not on the rise? Siddhartha Mukherjee: Cancer 
incidence is on the rise, which is mostly because we as a
population are aging. So as the entire population
cohort ages and as other diseases fall, cancer will
naturally seem on the rise. The second reason is that it's
also on the rise because we're detecting it earlier. The third reason is that, you
know, we there are new carcinogens in the body. But here's a very important
fact and please make note of it. Cancer deaths, adjusted for
age, adjusted for this age and population, has been on the
fall and has been on the fall for the last ten odd years. >> David M. Rubenstein: Why
 is that? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well,
because we're getting better at preventing some of it. We're getting better at
detecting some of it early and partly because we're getting
better at treating it. It's a triangle. Cancer. Think Think of cancer
as a triangle. Prevention is the base of the
triangle. Early detection is the middle
and treatment is the top. >> David M. Rubenstein: Your 
second book was on genes Now for thousands of years, humans didn't know that there
were genes that existed and that were determining our the way we
would live and so forth, or how we would grow into humans and
certain things we would have characteristics. What is the
essence of your book on genes trying to convey to people? What is the main message out of
that book you want people to take away? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, 
there are a couple. One of them is that the idea of
inheritance is the book is not just about genes. It is about
the idea of inheritance. And it's an intimate history,
as the book is subtitled. But the but the last part of
the book, actually, this is true for the last part of all my
books. The history often acts as a
preamble. It guides you through a journey
so that you can understand what's happening next. People
often ask me if I'm if I'm a medical historian, I'm
actually, in some ways not. I like to think about the
medical future. I'm a medical futurist, so it's
the last part of the book that's, to me, the provocative
part of the book. Once we learn how to read and
write genetic information by read, I mean understand, decode
the materials that is in our genes, the information. And by right I mean change that
information. What's going to happen to us? What is going to happen to us
as humans? And so there's a there's a
section which I often recommend people read called Post Genome. That is not to say that you
shouldn't read the the 300 pages that are before before, because
to understand what happens next, you need to understand what's
happened before. >> David M. Rubenstein: So 
when we map the human genome, did that really have the beneficial effects for society
that were predicted or not? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Initially,
 I think there was a lot of there was a lot of hype around and a lot of hope around
mapping the genome. It took about 10 to 15 years
for us and it is now starting to become really palpable. We're beginning to intervene on
genetic diseases, beginning to risk stratify patients based on
their genetics, predict patients who may have a higher risk of
breast cancer or ovarian cancer and then treat them accordingly
based on their risk. So, yes, finally, it is
beginning to pay off in the way that it was expected to pay
off. >> David M. Rubenstein: Your 
current book is The Cell, "The Song of the Cell" what is the cell and why did
you want to write a whole book about a cell? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, 
the cell is a unit of life. It's the basic unit of life. Often we talk about sort of
genes as being the unit of life, that the genes are lifeless
without cells. These books form a trilogy and
there'll be a last fourth book as part of a quartet. And they are what I would call
I call them the Life trilogy. They are about, in some ways
the Gene is the first book. The it's like Star Wars The
there's a prequel to the prequel to the prequel, but the Gene is
the first book I would the cell is the second book. The cell is the unit of life. It is what makes us. And so hence I thought, you
know, no one had written a book about the cell. And so I
thought, why hasn't anyone written a book about the cell?
So I should write it. David M. Rubenstein: Now
Jennifer Doudna won a Nobel Prize for what's called Crispr 
technology,  which means that she can. She figured out a way in humans
to be able to change their, I guess, cells in certain ways. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Or 
genes and thereby by by by by changing genes, change cells. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay, so 
but right now, we're not allowed under laws in every country, I guess, to actually
say we want to have a baby with blue eyes and now I'm going to
change the genes. Why are we not allowed to do
that? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, 
first of all, it would be impossible to do that because most human traits, blue eyes,
color of eyes, color of hair, how tall you are, etcetera,
etcetera, are influenced by hundreds of genes and. On the order of billions of
cells. It would not be easy to change
hundreds of genes and billions of cells. You would it would be
impossible with the tools we have. >> David M. Rubenstein: Theoritically, 
we could do some things to change some characteristics that
people have. Is that right? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: That's 
right.  There are quite few, actually. So those would be things that
are controlled by single genes usually, yes, we could we could
change those characteristics. They tend to be few. They're not very many. But but they are. They do
exist. And yes, you could potentially
change those -- those. And we have now as a community
have decided that that before we do any of that, before before
we tamper with our genomes in a way that's heritable, that can
be transmitted across generations, that we should
pause and think, think, think a little bit more deeply about
it. >> David M. Rubenstein: There
was a Chinese medical researcher who did an experiment which was not authorized in
China, and he was put in jail for this. He was trying to, I
guess, prevent someone or baby from having-- was it AIDS? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Yeah. 
So it was a terrible experiment for terrible reasons, badly conceived in every way. It was a botched -- the whole idea
was terrible from the from the start. The babies had no risk
of getting AIDS. They were at zero risk, but
they were at risk for developing some complications of these
genetic manipulations. So as ethically an incredibly
bad idea to to try to do this. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay. 
In our lifetime or let's say in the next 50 years or so, do you think it's likely that
we will be editing genes in a way where people will go to the
store or doctor and say, I want to have a child of this
characteristics with a lot of brain power or a good athlete,
and you think that will be possible in the next 50 years? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I think
 the possibility is zero >> David M. Rubenstein: Zero. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Yes. >> David M. Rubenstein: Oh. 
Well. Okay. Well, I'm more. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Which 
one did you want? Which one of those things? >> David M. Rubenstein: I'm more
 interested in whether somebody 74 could live to be 94
and be in good health. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, so. 
So that goes back to the this this book, which is that it's not you're not going to be
changing your genetic code. What you're likely to be able
to change is the way genes are expressed in your cells in
order if you wanted to live to 100 or if you wanted to change
the aging process again, you're not going to be able to tamper
with your genetic code. You're much more likely to be
able to achieve this by going to your doctor and or to your
neighborhood store as you as you put it. And and and, you know,
try to change the behavior, the composition of your cells, the
way the genes, your genes move and express themselves in your
cells. So it's aging is is a genetic
problem, but really it is a cellular problem. David M. Rubenstein:
Well, an aging. Why do you think it was that
evolution or whatever is the reason why we kind of age to a
certain level and then we ultimately die? Why is it
necessary that people age to the point where they do die, or why
can't people live forever? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well 
so organisms that you know. So it's interesting. Trees are very interesting with
this in this regard. Trees don't die of aging. They usually die of diseases. They don't go through the same
aging process that we do. At least that's that's what we
think. Know they they succumb to a
disease. If you think about. And it's going to take a little
bit longer to answer this question. If you think about
people who live for a very long time, so so-called super
centenarians, they don't die of cancer or heart attacks. They die of the failure of
regeneration. They die because their bones
can't regenerate, their cartilage doesn't. So they die
of bone bones breaking. They die of stem cell failure. Their blood system doesn't
regenerate. They die of immune collapse. So what's really the issue in
terms of these the frontier of aging is there are really two
frontiers. One of them is the conquest of
disease, cancer, heart disease and so forth, neurodegenerative
diseases, etcetera. But then there's the second
door or the second frontier, which is how do we keep
ourselves regeneratively alive? How do we keep our neurons
regenerative alive? How do we keep our blood system
regeneratively alive and it becomes a stem cell problem. It's a cellular problem
at that stage. >> David M. Rubenstein: The 
title of this talk was supposed to be the New Human. So 50 years from now, what will
the new human be? Will the person be living
longer, be stronger? What will the person be? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, 
in the Western world, they'll almost certainly
 be living longer. They will be living in
different circumstances. We've already seen the
devastation that we may cause if we don't stop living the way
that we're living. Ecological devastation, among
other things. But-- but they will be if we do
live longer, we'll have to figure out how to also live
better and live in peace with each other and with nature. They will probably acquire
different kinds of characteristics. We talked a
little bit about backstage about the fact that every year we
come closer to a more bionic stage or more bionic state. And by bionic, I mean a state
in which the line between what is human and cellular, human
cellular and between technology is more and more blurred. We will probably have vastly
greater interfaces with biotechnological,
biotechnological and digital interfaces. And by that I mean
both AI we will, some of us might be, might be chimeras, we will
be chimeras in the sense that our cells will may be altered
because we have a disease state. We will, our genes may be
altered in those cells because we have a disease state. All of these are new humans. In fact, there are new humans
walking by this definition. There are new humans walking
amongst us right now. There are some on this in this
audience as far as as far as I could tell. >> David M. Rubenstein: So 
generally, humans, while the suicide rate is actually fairly
high in the United States. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: And
 back  to the morbid conversation. >> David M. Rubenstein: But
 the the desire to live is seems to be a relatively common
human desire and to live longer. Ponce de Leon looked for the
fountain of youth. He didn't find it, though. He didn't look in the right
part of Florida. He was not in Palm Beach. He was looking at Miami, I
guess, or something. So. So just give me some free
medical advice if you want, if you could. So if I want to live
to be 100 years old, have all my faculties and by the way, is
Alzheimer's on the and dementia on the rise because people are
living longer or just. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Alzheimer's
 is also on the rise, mostly because people are living longer. Yeah, there is no new
toxin that we've discovered as far as I know. >> David M. Rubenstein: The 
best way to avoid getting Alzheimer's or dementia is to have good genes. Or is there
something else you can do? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, 
again, as I said, you know, you don't get to choose your genes. So the there are
there's actually again, this is going to be a longer answer. The -- and it's an interesting,
it's biologically interesting. So it turns out that one of the
things that happens you can imagine if you look inside your
brain and look at the anatomy of your brain, it looks like an
incredibly complex arbor of trees with many, many branches
all over. And the more densely arborized
your brain is, the more healthy. In some ways the brain is. What happens in virtually all
of these neurodegenerative diseases is that the
arborization, this dense branching begins to decrease
over time and it falls on a slope. Now, here's the
important piece. The best way aside, until we
get a new medicines for Alzheimer's disease, the best
way to prevent the decay is not to you can't change the slope
of the decay, but what you can do is you can move it to a
higher place to start with. So in other words, the best way
is to to arborize your brain as much as possible when your
brain is still intact. And that involves, you know,
very basic things, exercise. It involves thinking. It involves, you know, social
interactions. Coming to book festivals. List-- >> David M. Rubenstein: Reading 
books is a good thing? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Reading
 books is actually one of the best ways because you. >> David M. Rubenstein: All
 right.  So reading books is
good. What about learning a musical
instrument? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I've
heard incredibly good, incredibly. >> David M. Rubenstein: Learning
 a foreign language. Is that good? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Very
 good. All good. >> David M. Rubenstein: Crossword
 puzzles. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: All
 good. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: You're 
on a roll. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay. 
So. All right. I'm going to try all
those things tomorrow, but. But right now, sometimes
doctors say you want to live a long life. Take an aspirin
every day. What do you think of that? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I think 
it's a good thing. I mean, I think, you know, as I said, you know, aspirin is
mainly a preventative for cardiovascular disease. It's
probably got some other effects that we don't know fully about. But it you know, there are
studies that show that if you do take a baby aspirin every day,
that it has a good effects on cardiovascular health -- health
and therefore good effects. >> David M. Rubenstein: I 
thought there was. a study that came out not long
ago saying, well, maybe, maybe that's not true. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, 
so, you know, if you do, there are studies that go one direction and studies that go
the other direction. If you look at the global
evidence, it tends to cause less. It doesn't cause harm. And if anything, there's a
little bit of benefit. >> David M. Rubenstein: What 
about  taking a statin. Doctors like 
to tell people, take statins. I suppose you don't
really have high cholesterol. Is it still a good idea to take
a statin every day? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Not 
a great not a great deal of evidence that that it prolongs your life. There's a there are
2 or 3 very large ongoing studies to figure out whether,
you know, taking statins, being on a on a calorie restricted
diet, being on diets that restrict insulin and taking an
aspirin, metformin, etcetera, etcetera, all this kind of I
mean, I would say woozy stuff that's out in the in the aging
field right now. There's a lot of studies going
on. None of them have reached any
conclusive evidence. >> David M. Rubenstein: What
 about walking two miles every day? Some people say that prolongs
your life. >. Siddhartha Mukherjee: So 
as I said, you know, the the simple things that you can do are the things I talked about,
you know, simple exercise. You don't you don't need to be
you don't need to be running in the gym every day. But simple
exercise. >> David M. Rubenstein: But
 if you're walking two miles, does it make a difference on a treadmill or you have to do it
outside the body? Won't? No, it doesn't make a
difference, does it? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: But, 
you know, the it's not it's not clear that that your neurons care whether you're on the
treadmill or whether you're you're in. >> David M. Rubenstein: What
 about weight? Is it important to lose weight? And what do you think about
Ozempic? You ever heard of this? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: How 
much medical advice are you trying to get out of me? >> David M. Rubenstein: I'm all 
I can get for free. I mean, I don't know. I mean, shouldn't I be taking
ozempic? Everybody I know has on
ozempic. I mean, I'm the fattest person I know now. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well. 
So it's you know, the drugs are new. 
They, I think, have-- they're certainly successful in
weight reduction. It's not clear there is a
there's a worrisome trend that they also cause a loss of
muscle. And so there's you're losing
weight, but you're also losing muscle. As soon as I said that,
I saw you standing up a little bit more straight, too. >> David M. Rubenstein: So 
that's a problem. And losing muscle. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Yeah. 
So that's one problem. The thing is that whenever
there's a new drug that comes out into the into into the
market, it becomes the new rage. It's everyone's talking about
it. And then 15 years later, you
suddenly find out that you've lost, you know, muscle as long
as with your weight as well. And so we don't know. These drugs haven't been around
for for long enough for us to know. So in general, I tell
people that if if you're a diabetic, if you're if you're
if you're severely obese and if you can manage to combine
ozempic with with appropriate exercise that retains muscle,
then. Okay, go ahead. That's a that's
a reasonable thing to do. But it's not you know, you just
don't there's no free lunch. Literally, there is no free
lunch. But but but so, so, so the
drugs haven't been around for long enough for me to be able
to tell you. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay, 
so what about getting an annual physical? Some people say that's a waste
of money. Other people say it's
essential. What do you think about that? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well,
so here's what I think about it. And my thoughts, again, are a
little bit off, off the off the off the beaten track, you know,
the evidence that an annual physical helps. So. Yes, so so what do annual
physicals catch? They catch things that are
silent. So hypertension big killer an
annual physical will catch catch that they can catch things that
you wouldn't normally know. For instance, a hyper having
high cholesterol, hypercholesterolemia, an annual
physical will catch if you suddenly start going along that
road. So. So it will catch the
possibility that you're having early signs. We now know that
it will catch. Often physicians who are pretty
attuned can catch early neurological disease and then
they'll go then they'll say to you, you know, go and do some
crosswords and and and don't don't take the you know, so,
so, so, so the answer is annual physicals are very helpful to
catch silent things that you would not normally normally
catch. That's one. The second thing is
I do think it's important to build a relationship with a
doctor. That relationship is important
because when you are-- when you, when you're in in trouble, your
physician becomes an advocate. So I and it can become not just
a not just a medical advocate, but what I would say is not in
in a religious sense, but a spiritual advocate. >> David M. Rubenstein: Relationship 
with a doctor I think is important. But nowadays, doctors want to
have relationships on telemedicine. Would you call the doctor,
maybe looks at you or she looks at you on the screen? Is that as good as being
examined in person? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: No, 
for several reasons. Number one is that they they
can't they don't have they don't build a relationship with you. And I think the that
relationship becomes very important. I mean, I you know,
I'm I often deal with with end of life issues. Many people do. Many primary physicians do. And I think that I think it's
very important to have a relationship that's not
virtual. >> David M. Rubenstein: End 
of life issues like when you have somebody that probably is not going to live that much
longer, you talk to the next of kin. And is that the toughest
part of your job? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: No, 
the toughest part of my job is to talk to the person who's
dying, not the next of kin. The next of kin is the second
toughest part of my job. But the toughest part of my job
is to talk to the person themselves. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay.
So in terms of the new human, 25 years from today, what do you think is going to be different
about humans or 50 years today than than today? Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Well, we talked a little bit
about this. I mean, I think, you know,
there will be that our, our --7we will be more readily altering
our cells. You know, one thing that's
interesting is one project that's interesting that I'm
trying that I'm involved in is to build an AI model of a cell. Can we build a virtual model of
a cell? And if we could do build a
completely AI based model of a cell, could we then use it to
predict things about cellular
44
645
00:28:45,270 --> 00:28:49,320
behavior? And if we could use
it to to predict things about cellular behavior, could we
then deploy it in in a medical setting? Could we understand,
for instance, why someone gets diabetes or someone gets
hypertension or something like that? So but back to your back,
to your fundamental question, I think we will have a vastly
more permissive understanding of how to change our cells, how to
potentially liaise or interface. With, with, with, with -- with our
digital selves. We will be different people. We will be we will be living
different lives. Our homes will be different. And we talked a little bit also
about our relationship with nature will be different. >> David M. Rubenstein: Now
when I was growing up, doctors were very highly respected and they were also very big income
producers, relatively speaking. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, 
most of them that stopped because most people get free
medical advice these days. >> David M. Rubenstein: That's 
good. But -- but doctors today, they seem to be dealing with
 insurance companies all the time. And would you recommend to the
average person who has a scientific bent that he or she
go to medical school? Do you think today we should
get more people to go to medical schools? And do we need more
medical schools to be built in this country? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, 
so I think, I think the medical school serves many purposes. One of the purposes
is to make doctors. But the other purpose is to
make doctors who are also scientists. And if we don't do
that, if we don't do -- build medical researchers, I think
then we're in deeper trouble because then, you know, all the
things that we have taken for granted the the, you know, the
the arrival, the birth of new medicines is just not going to
happen. You need that that sort of
cohort of people to think through, think through some of
these. >> David M. Rubenstein: As 
you look back on your career, you have no regret about going to medical school, right? And
becoming a doctor and -- >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Oh, 
absolutely not. I think it's, you know,
medicine is is the most complex human profession that I know. It involves, you know, every
faculty of reason ranging from ranging from, you know, as as
the Greeks would say, ethos to pathos or as as in a more
modern sense, ranging from, you know, thinking about science
and statistics and evidence to having a conversation with
someone which is very deeply intimate and personal. Medicine
has in some ways -- is a profession that has the widest range than
anything any other profession that I know. >> David M. Rubenstein: So 
if you're born in the United States
generally, you probably have a longer lifespan
potential than if you're born in, let's say, a so-called
third world country. Do you think that will change
in the next 50 years or so so that countries that are lower
income countries, let's say, they're likely to get the level
of medical care and attention because of either artificial
intelligence or telemedicine that we are able to get in the
United States today. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: It's 
not going to be artificial intelligence and telemedicine that transforms the aging of
lower income countries. It is much simpler things such
as better hygiene, better sanitation, better diets,
better access, and some to some extent better access to to
medical care. Now, of course, some of these
may be tooled by or enabled by digital technologies, but but
the fundamental changes that we're seeing in places like,
let's say, India, Nigeria, the the lower income countries are
because, you know, because of of of very fundamental things
like, as I said, hygiene, sanitation, decreased infant
mortality, decreased maternal mortality, you know, and and
vast changes which are much, much more basic than than, you
know, complicated things like artificial intelligence and and
digital technologies. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay. 
So another question for my health knowledge, is drinking alcohol 
or wine a good thing for you? Some people say drinking wine
is a good thing for you. Some people say it's not so
good. What is your view? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well,
 so the evidence is now suggest that it almost all alcohol is a problem or any
alcohol is a problem which should make us drink more. But but but the evidence
suggests that that alcohol is a more under-- is an an
underestimated problem in most diseases as opposed to an
overestimate. >> David M. Rubenstein: Even
 red wine? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Even
 red wine, which was once considered a good thing, is now no longer considered as good
thing. So, so I don't know what your
plan is this evening, but. >> David M. Rubenstein: Well, 
okay. Let me say, should I eat red meat?
Is red meat healthy for you? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So
 the quick answer is it's it's not healthy for you. It's certainly not healthy for
the environment. And so I would say that, you
know, it's it's it's it's effect on you is is is is moderately
bad. Its effects on the environment
are extremely bad. So if you want to if you want
to do the world a favor you should probably so not not eat
red meat not not just for yourself but for-- >> David M. Rubenstein: Am
 I likely to live longer if I become a vegan or vegetarian or you wouldn't say it makes that
much difference. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: It
 doesn't make much of a difference. But but I think, you know, as I said once again, if
you if you could commit as as I have tried to do, if you could
commit one day a week to being a vegetarian, you would do not
yourself but your grandchildren a favor. >> David M. Rubenstein: Well,
I'm more worried about myself, but okay. Okay. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, 
it's nice to have grandchildren around if you have happen to have them or or grand
nephews or grand nieces, it doesn't matter. It would be
nice to leave, leave a better planet than than
than the one we inherited. >> David M. Rubenstein: So
in the United States, government provides an enormous amount of money for medical
research. Do you think that money is. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: It
 doesn't provide an enormous amount of money. It provides $50 billion to the
NIH for medical research, which is 1/100 of the amount of money
that it spends on many other things. >> David M. Rubenstein: You 
don't think it's enough? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: No, 
I think it's it's a, it's a ludicrously small number. >> David M. Rubenstein: All right. 
But the US government provides a lot of reimbursement for medical treatment now. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So 
that's that's different. So it provides 
a lot of it provides a lot of reimbursement. So it
provides trillions of dollars for medical care, but $50
million, $50 billion odd for medical research. >> David M. Rubenstein: So
 if somebody said to you, look, why don't you come to the White House and redo redo the
the way the federal government operates, the health care
system, what is the 1 or 2 things you would do to make the
health care system of the United States work better for 
the average person? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I have 
two words preventative health. >> David M. Rubenstein: Preventative
 health. So you would get 
people to exercise more or so. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Exactly.
 So the health begins at the bottom. Health begins. The pyramid
begins at the bottom. They would we would have a much
more we would have a much stronger preventative health
program. We would, you know, instead of
treating the well, instead of treating the sick, we would we
would we would encourage wellness instead of treating
the sick. >> David M. Rubenstein: So
 in a lot of hospitals now, they say, is the best way for a hospital to make money is to
have the patient come in and get out the same day and don't stay
there very long because the hospitals don't make much money
on that. Is that good for health care
treatment of people or is that just good for the hospital 
bottom line? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So
 it's you know, generally speaking, you don't want to be in the hospital for
a long time because you can get nasty infections from from
being in the hospital because other people are sick. And so it is it is under the
right circumstances, it's the right thing to do. You know, there are people who
would say that, you know, it has gone to to a to an extreme and
they they aren't able to to to to to to to get the care that
they need or deserve. >> David M. Rubenstein: So 
where do you think COVID came from? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Um. 
Are you paying me for answering this?
Answering this question? >> David M. Rubenstein: I'll 
just. I'm just curious. Do you think it just came from
a wet market or. You don't know? Nobody really
knows, I guess, right? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I 
think no one really knows. I think I think they were they
were pretty convinced that it that it came from the wet
market. I think the I think they have
become we have become relatively unconvinced that it came from
the wet market. I think that we have become
much more convinced than we were one year ago or two years ago
that that we have become more convinced that it may have may
have been a lab leak. >> David M. Rubenstein: And
 what do you think about the argument that vaccines do not
help when you have COVID? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I 
think that's absurd. >> David M. Rubenstein: Absurd. 
Okay. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: And 
they don't help when you have COVID. 
That is true. >> David M. Rubenstein: Vaccines 
usually historically took, let's say, 4 to 7 years >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: No. 
But I mean that vaccines don't help when you have when you have COVID. It's certainly thing
that vaccines help to prevent you getting-- >> David M. Rubenstein: All right. 
If the president of United States called you and said, look, you're a very
famous doctor, you're a famous author, you know a lot about
science and medicine. I want to make sure if we have
another pandemic, we do a better job. What would you tell the
president, United States That we should do 1 or 2 things better
than we did last time? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So 
I would say that we need a better global surveillance network. We have disempowered
the World Health Organization. We have disempowered it for
almost two decades. So we need a better global
surveillance system. We need a better global
response system. This pandemic could have been
contained, as many pandemics had been before that. So, you know, there have been
coronaviruses in the past. There have been you know,
there's been MERS. There has been other
coronaviruses. All of those pandemics were
there could have been pandemics were contained very quickly. This was a particular failure
of global surveillance, global responsiveness and global
responsibility. For the first few months, as
you very well know, the Chinese government hid a global
pandemic from the globe. So I think the-- I think there is
a -- there is -- And part of the reason that
they could do that is because of geopolitics. So I would tell
the president that while I do my homework in the, in the -- on the
medical front, the president may be well served by doing his or
her homework on the geopolitical end so that this doesn't happen
again. >> David M. Rubenstein: So
 you mentioned NIH, $50 billion a year. If you could redirect the NIH
in any way, what would you have them do that they're not doing
now? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Towards
 preventative health. >. David M. Rubenstein: You
 like those two words, right? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I'm 
giving you free medical advice. I might as well. >> David M. Rubenstein: I know. 
I know. Okay, so preventative health. So what do you do to
preventative your own health? Do you. You exercise a lot? Do you do crossword puzzles? What are you doing to make
yourself healthy? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I do 
Wordle every day. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay. 
All right. But you exercise a lot and. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I do.
 I do my fair amount of exercise. It's not like I'm a you know,
I'm. I have other things to do. I'm, you know, I'm trying to
write books, But but, but, but but, no, I get some exercise in
I think I think that that many, many things that I don't do a
lot of things some of which are obvious I don't smoke.
I, you know, limit limit. >> David M. Rubenstein: Smorking
 is not good for you? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: oh,
I'm not the only person who thinks smoking is. >> David M. Rubenstein: What
 about what about marijuana? Is marijuana healthy? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Depends
 who's asking. >> David M. Rubenstein: Do
 you believe medical marijuana is presumably healthy? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So 
that's why I said it depends who's asking. You know, I think if it's if
the situation is if there's a situation that concerns pain, I
think it's you know, I think it's I'm very open to
prescribing medical marijuana. David M. Rubenstein: Wow.
Okay. So today, if you were to
say what the most important medical advancement we've made
over the last hundred years, what is it that this country
and the medical world has done over the last hundred years
that has made people healthier? Is it vaccines? It is the discovery of DNA Is
better sanitation, better medical access to pills. What is the best thing we've
done in the last hundred years? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well,
 by best you mean quantitatively correct. >> David M. Rubenstein: It's 
done the most to make people live longer and healthier. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Yeah.
So. So the the best thing that we've done is really quite,
again, quite basic. It's sanitation. It's, you know, the fact it's
wastewater disposal. It is the, the invisible things
that you don't see around you that allow the air to be clean,
the water to be potable. The and therefore, the worst
thing that we could be doing is to reverse those things as we
have been seeing more recently with, as I said, you know, this
is not a talk about climate, but it has become a talk about
climate because, you know, you ask you've asked me many times
about what maximum impact is. That seems to be an area of
maximum. >> David M. Rubenstein: So 
if I had the time to read one of your three books. I can only have time to read
one of them. Which one? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I gave
 you all this advice. I mean, you should read all. >> David M. Rubenstein: Well, 
I'm asking for. Siddhartha Mukherjee: You 
can buy. You can buy three books. >> David M. Rubenstein: If
 people here. If people here wanted to read
one of your three books, which one would you recommend that
they read first? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well,
 so okay. I mean, it depends on on on what their interests are. If they're
interested in in a kind of in a in a in a way to read them
serially, they should read the gene first. If they're interested in a
personal experience with cancer, they should read "The Emperor of
All Maladies" first. If they're thinking about sort
of the medical future, they should read "Song of the Cell"
first. It depends on what their interest is. >> David M. Rubenstein: Look,
 I've actually read all three of your books and they're excellent books. I don't really
understand science that well, but I actually understood
pretty much what you wrote about and it scared the hell out of
me when some parts of it. But I realize I got to exercise
more and not eat certain things and do more Wordle,
 right? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Yes,
 that's correct. Those would
be the take home message. >> David M. Rubenstein: So 
thank you for the books you've written and the education you're giving to people about
health care. And thank you for your service
to our country through what you're doing in teaching. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Thank 
you so much. My pleasure. >> David M. Rubenstein: Okay. [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: _aoj8SwkLR4 (https://youtu.be/_aoj8SwkLR4) ===

this program is presented by University of California television like what you learn visit our website or follow us on Facebook and Twitter to keep up with the latest uctv programs [Music] we have uh joining us um sidartha mukari and hopefully he will pop up here on the panel there he is uh you know I I did not uh know until a few minutes ago that we were going to have um uh this fantastic and important pullit Sur prise winning author um sidartha Mukerji uh on screen I thought he was going to be with me on stage so I rushed as as many of you know we have a little bookstore here uh with people with the books of the scholars the scientists the social phenoms like d Pac choer and others um all of those books are over there so I went over and I grabbed the book uh I paid for this book uh which I rarely do anymore the Emperor of all maladies a biography of cancer uh this book is arguably the most important book on cancer uh that has been written in this era and we're so pleased to have uh the author with us he's collaborating with Ken Burns uh in producing a PBS documentary uh on the history of cancer the biography of cancer and so he's here with us uh to have a discussion a dialogue and and yeah great greetings s artha hi Hi how are you how are you so good good good to see you uh so can you talk can you basically the the the the book you've done which is uh won so many awards is is is the definitive account of essentially the history of cancer from the beginning of of of our recorded uh encounters with it to the present can you share with us a little bit about what drove you to do this you are an assistant doctor of medicine at at at Columbia University but you you you know are now a prize-winning author so please share with us how you got into this and what you've learned uh well you know the the impetus for the book um was really a question that a patient had asked me while I was uh trying to treat her uh several years ago she said I I I'm willing to go on with my next cycle of treatment but I need to know what it is that I'm fighting it's a very simple question I need to know what it is that I'm fighting and and I was astounded by the the fact that here we are running a a presumably massive human campaign against cancer on every front the political front the scientific front from basic research spanning to uh advocacy in Washington and yet we lacked a kind of uh a Manifesto if you will or a description A History A Story of what it what what what was this all about uh where had this started is it old is it new what happens next where are we in it are we in the middle are we to the end um and so you know in in some ways I I wrote the book back to this this patient that I was treating but also I I wrote it for myself I I was as if I needed my own road map um and a public road map to where we were and what what was happening next you know I I've you enjoyed jumping around in the book uh this morning and and looking at but it occurs to me that you know of of of all presidents Richard Nixon was actually the one to formally declare a war on cancer uh in the early 1970s how would you should as you know love to declare Wars on many things yeah the wars yeah there is war on many things I was the first director of the Nixon Center so I try to mention Nixon in every event I do uh but but I think that you know one of one of the questions would be interesting for you to handicap is how has our war on cancer how's our progress if any uh developed since then and how do you look at this time time of just we're in UC San Diego astounding Revolutions in science and Computing capacity and uh uh our understanding of genes do you think we're at fundamentally a different moment that if that war were relaunched today we would be uh in a different space well I think the war war metaphor is a complicated metaphor so let's dwell on that for a second um I think uh you know several people have pointed out that you know you the idea of the war wars are won or lost um scientific battles are not won or lost they're solved or or or yet unsolved so there's a fundamental conflict with the idea of declaring war on you know it's like saying I'm I'm declaring war on a puzzle you don't declare war on a puzzle you either solve it or you leave it unsolved or you try to solve it so um you know and and and so so now now turning the metaphor over to the the metaphor of puzzle I think we're somewhere in the middle of that puzzle um we have learned an enormous amount from the uh the Revolutions in biology in particular the revolution of genomics and the capacity to detect all the genetic alterations in various cancers number one we've realized that cancer is not one disease but many diseases that in fact even what we call breast cancer is a whole bunch of diseases that actually are somewhat similar but also somewhat different under the genetic microscope and so that allows us now to have the fundamental landscape as it were or the territory on which if you want to persist on on the Met War the war will be fought so in other words we now know what the territory looks like it's still I think a long way from finding out what to do about these genes how do you now use this information to try to make therapies that don't just recapitulate the problems of the past the uh you know the somewhat effective but largely ineffective chemotherapies the somewhat effective surgeries the somewhat effective radiation therapy how do you take all this uh information from the past and make it information about the future I mean the bottom line is that I think we're in the middle uh we're in the middle and it's an important middle Wars don't don't get transformed puzzles don't get solved without going through the middle you have to go through it and that's where we are and we need the energy we need the the the scientific energy the the Creative Energy the energy from the information systems um to be able to solve the next series of important questions in this puzzle you know the Atlantic has hosted quite a number of U healthc care and and and health um Innovation forums and one of the things that comes out particularly with regard to how I've looked at your book real quickly your book tells and links together many case studies many human stories uh history of this disease looks at uh cuttingedge science and it and it creates a really a magnificent narrative on on this disease but the truly magnificent narrative exists out there in the in the health records of people that have suffered with this the many millions who who are living with uh cancer or who have died who've had various treatments and so one of the the the revolutions cing today is the Big Data Revolution and one of the questions that has styed somewhat those who would like to look in the case studies of all of this and look in the aggregate at everyone is uh concerns about privacy do you think that's a gap that can be jumped over how do you respond when when as a as a scientist as a uh uh uh you know in in medicine thinking about here you've got the availability of you to to to take your book and multip Supply it by a million given everything out there and and yet we've got a lot of resistance basically on the Privacy front well I'm going to say two things the first thing is that it's very important as a scientist not to confuse Big Data with smart data they're not the same thing in fact very small pieces of data can be vastly more informative than very large pieces of data so there's a kind of fetishism of big data which I don't I actually don't subscribe to I'm not interested in it I'm interested in in data that's intelligent in data that really provides answers to questions and it's not necessarily Big Data small experiments can can generate huge results I mean you know an apple falling from a tree on your head can be much more important than 50 pieces you know 50,000 uh pixels of uh of nonsense information on on Facebook say so so I think we need to discriminate between those two things so the real question is how do we make smart data available and to what extent does really smart data impinge on PRI on questions like privacy and on questions like what what needs to be uh you know what needs to be kept information that needs to be kept conserved in a way in in a private space you know to be perfectly honest I I really don't see a big conflict here I mean I think the I think there is plenty of space for the anonymization of information such that the information does not impinge on on deeply private information uh I think what we're trying to do in cancer is to extract from Big Data smart data how do you take genomic information of not one individual but thousands of individuals and create medicines that are that are that are better targeted that have less toxicity that lengthen life with with fewer side effects and it's not it's far from clear to me that the biggest challenge there is privacy it's just not um there's a lot of there's a lot of movement as it were in in the in the in the conservation of privacy around the idea of data and it's useful in helpful but I would put it to you that that is not the biggest scientific problem facing cancer research researchers today the biggest scientific problem facing cancer research today is how to take data which is very complex it's multi-dimensional it's very big and to convert it into things that are usable I mean can you use the information from the genome can you use the information about Lifestyles to convert it into prevention is to convert to identify carcinogens that we don't know about to wa to make new drugs happen that Target targets in the cell in in the in molecular targets that haven't been previously exploited do you think there are means and methods of doing just what you said needs to happen that that are that are emerging oh absolutely absolutely but I think it has to be married to uh what I call real biology and real medicine so in other words you know it is not clear to me that the data Revolution is going to solve the cancer problem it will provide part of the solution to the cancer problem because cancer is a complex disase disease but it's not the only solution to the cancer problem it has to be an integrated or longitudinal solution um for instance you know you don't need big data to tell us that cigarette smoking is a major cause of lung cancer around the world today which it is uh what you do need is a mechanism in country in developing countries for instance to stop young people from smoking that is not that is not a data problem it is a problem about the way we deploy data the way we understand social networks it's again it's it's I I'd like to discriminate between big data and between smart data you might have a single intervention might be successful in transforming the prevention of lung cancer in developing countries now where does that information come come from it might come from the extraction of information from very complex social networks or it might be an advertising campaign that is actually based on something that was done in the 1950s so again just to emphasize the point let's not confuse big with smart great that's a great point you write in your book um section I I I love this uh section the philosopher of science Carl popper coined the term risky prediction to describe the process by which scientists verify untested theories good theories poer proposed generate risky predictions they presage an unanticipated fact or event that runs a real risk of not occurring or being proven incorrect when this unanticipated fact proves true or the event does occur the theory gain credibility and robustness and then through this chapter you talk somewhat historically looking back at those people who made uh risky assessments that began to kind of help fill out uh our understanding of the story and history of cancer and I'm interested given your all the narratives that youve swn into this and and and and your um your profound knowledge now of how we've evolved today looking forward how do you uh see what the the risky prediction what are the risky predictions that we would posit from this time in 2013 that might be the ones to challenge our own uh understanding and and Paradigm of thinking about cancer so these are it's an it's a it's a deeply important question you're asking and so let me propose some risky predictions and I encourage people in the in the audience actually think about their own risky predictions because this is how science moves ahead so in other words what's a risky prediction a risky prediction is something is a hypothesis that runs a real tangible risk of failing to be true in other words it's very easy easy to come up with hypotheses that are likely to be true right the the the and as as poer and others have pointed out the the real the the real driving force of much of science is to is to put your neck out there and to make a prediction that is truly that truly runs the likely to be not proven true and thereby proves or disproves Theory this goes back to the idea that popper had of of the idea of falsifiability which is that you know theories are only useful if they're truly falsifiable if you propose a Theory you have to be able to propose an argument or an experiment that will disprove the theory and just to give you one example to fill this out me you know you can't say uh you know you can't say for instance you can't say you you know alternative medicine really works in cancer but unfortunately using your metrics I'm afraid you won't ever be able to prove it right so that's a theory that does not have a risky prediction because essentially you've taken the risk out of the you've said there's no way you can prove or disproven so let me give you some examples of some risk number one deep genomic annotation of cancer that means sequencing cancers at a very deep genetic level is going to have a transformative impact on cancer medicine and prevention that's a risky that's a risky proposition in other words you're saying that big information about all the genetic mutations that cancer has will in the end provide new mechanisms of treatment cure and prevention of cancer we don't know this yet uh we would like to believe it's true because we've invested a huge amount of resources scientific person Personnel um and political resources into the cancer Genome Project and the question is what are the dividends of that project will it really transform into true new medicines appearing in the Horizon so that's Point number one here's another risky prediction the understanding of the immune system and its relationship to cancer will provide a new set of Diagnostic and therapeutic tools in the future maybe it's true in fact we're beginning to see the first few amazing new uh Cancer drugs that specifically Target the immune system activate it and make it active against cancer cells but we don't know if these will really ultimately become common are these common targets are these uncommon targets is it true for all cancers not true for all cancers that's a big question here's a risky prediction number three combinations of of therapies that are targeted against particular genes or genetic Pathways if you combine them you all of a sudden will get synergistic and huge effects that single therapies don't have in themselves it's a risky prediction we don't know if that's true or not we know in general that combination chemotherapy which kills cancer cells relatively indiscriminately can have a huge effect impact on some cancers but on other cancers it's not very effective so is it true that targeting multiple Pathways using much more these novel uh these novel uh Therapeutics will have a series of impacts on on cancer I'll give you one last example and this is a political example um altering the structure the way we perform cancer research currently which is based on a on a model of of academic research being translated by translational Physicians and ultimately by pharmaceutical the pharmaceutical industry in a kind of linear manner uh will produce the next generation of cancer prevention and Therapeutics now you could say Well it generates a risky prediction are there other models out there that would actually work better could there be a more Superior model that produces more transformative impact on cancer therapy in the near future so these I I you know that's just a spectrum and I could go on I could give you tens of thousands of probably know thousands I I would say dozens of examples of truly risky predictions that expand the gamut from basic science to the political organization of cancer research I I think that kind of list is really vital uh in part giving people an on-ramp to understand what the Cutting Edge of thinking in this area is doing so such a list is is is such a valuable thing your book is not only Steve let me pause for a second who do you think should generate that list well who who is in the who is in the position is it is it a public responsibility is it could it be is that list to be crowdsourced does it require does it require a public conversation if so who is having that public conversation how's that public conversation being funded I mean we understand the importance of the problem you know one and three if not one in four if not one in two men and women will be afflicted by cancer in their lifetimes in the United States one and four men and women will die of cancer this is your problem this is my problem this is our children's problem this is our parents problem so where are we where what are the mechanisms of having this conversation who is having it um and what who are the critics of this conversation who who who is surveying and scrutinizing this conversation uh great question I think that the the followup I was going to have on that was that as you your book is not just a story of cancer it's really a story of society and how it's mobilized to think about it and deal with it and one of the interesting questions I have today particularly what we see going on with Washington Washington is not the Beall in this but we're at a you know worldclass research facility here you work in a world-class uh uh hospital and and research University yourself and in this when you look at the ecosystem that's been uh developed over time the stakeholders the innovators the scientists the funders you know the by do act which gave universities a stake in advancement uh of Science and economic incentive I'm interested in and how someone CU you you know this world much better than I do how would you say we're doing in terms of building a a stronger ecosystem and do you see that an ecosystem of dealing with this question and do you see it enhanced by what's going on now and we we can either talk about Washington or not or do you see some of the key elements of that social uh stakeholding in this uh being undermined well I'm happy to talk about Washington although I'm Al it's a depressing conversation so you know uh the the the it won't be my last question end I think is that it's a fragile ecosystem like all important ecosystems we have to recognize it's a fragile EOS system what you cannot do and and and I've been to like you have been in Washington several times what you cannot do with cancer is you cannot say or with any scientific project you can't say well you know we've run out of money today so let's put it on hold for five years and when the budgets creep up when the time happens we we'll come back to it um that just doesn't happen science is a continuous conversation and if it breaks it's a broken conversation um so it is not as if you can all of a sudden say well let's put it on let's put the cancer genome on hold for the next five years and when we come up with when we come up with the right set of tools we can come back to the conversation because that conversation will cease to happen um there are people who engage who are deeply engaged in the conversation right now and that includes scientists epidemiologists nurses uh advocates patients uh their loved ones their families and it is a continuous convers it's happening right now it's a fragile conversation because it can be broken by uh if you cease to H have it then you know it will forget and and in fact you have to build it up right from scratch so and there are institutions National institutions that have spent their entire lifeblood as it were to keeping this conversation happening the national care Institute the National Institutes of Health um so if it is a it is a peculiarity of this ecosystem that that while it produces Rich dividends on one hand it's actually very fragile and it can be very quickly har harmed by you know take away a few of these critical pieces and the whole thing comes toppling down uh just before I move to the uh audience for questions I guess my last question is is about the documentary The three-part uh sixh hour uh PBS series that you were doing based on uh the Emperor of all maladies there's a way I love the way you framed that this is really a Chronicle of us it's a Chronicle of of people in their lives force you to look at it but but what I see your book doing and the discussion we've had today is really uh one to inspire or to drive you know collaboration to kind of continue to to to work on this so what how are you and Ken Burns thinking of organizing the series and and and what is your ultimate objective uh with with the series on cancer well the ultimate objective is to start a national conversation about cancer and through that started National conversation about science and through that started National conversation about the the relationship between Society illness medicine and science um that is a it's a large goal but I think cancer itself is a phenomenon that involves us all so therefore is the is I think the appropriate substrate to have that conversation um I mean the way that we're doing it is that we're we're trying to tell stories um I think of it I think of myself I think of scientists as storytellers I think of Physicians as storytellers and I think of myself as one of the many storytellers in this process I think it is a it is a story it is our story uh it is a story because it is something that affects each and every one of our Lives I mean I mean if you look at Ken's films um you know Civil War Jazz baseball um Civil War is a film about the Civil War but it's really a it's a film about our contemporary story today baseball is a film about baseball but it really is about as the story of aspiration and tragedy of aspirations you know jazz is a story about music but it's also a story about race and its consequences in the United States so in some ways uh cancer I I think will be a story about cancer but it will be a story about much larger themes um Wellness illness Norm normaly abnormaly uh what it means to be uh a society where uh you know as I said one in three or one in four people will be affected by this illness and how we deal with it historically becomes a fundamentally American story thank you let me open to the audience we've got time for a couple of questions you let me take this gentleman here good morning Dr mukaj Daniel Simon from Onyx Pharmaceuticals hi Dan if you look at the difference in cancer outcomes across countries across States hospitals and indeed individual Physicians it would seem that one of the biggest improvements today in oncology outcomes would be to get all Physicians to adhere to best practice as we understand it today how should we think about actually making that happen so the question is I mean how how should we how should we create best practices or how should we make Physicians adhere to best practices because they're two different things adhere to best practices and adopt them um so so the first the first part of the question is I mean how do we create best practices uh are how is there is there a mechanism to create best practice so here it comes back to a risky prediction right the risky prediction here which you know I think is is worthwhile thinking about is can one create a a a series of best practices such that when you go to your physician you know in in in the United States in the United Kingdom wherever you're being wherever you're being treated that you know that you're undergoing the best practice treatment and then uh the alternative is a clinical trial that moves that best practice in some ways now the reason I'm saying this is very important because um the the the re utions uh of new Therapeutics will not be realized in cancer medicine in adult cancer medicine unless adults participate in trials and adults will not participate in Trials unless they're told that that what they're being treated with is state-of-the-art but has reached a kind of plateau or a limit or a ceiling and that the next level of knowledge generation involves a clinical trial right now we have about 10% participation of adults in clinical trials the number varies depending on the disease but that's a dismal number that's an abysmal number uh we cannot undergo the next series of important advances in cancer medicine without involving at least 50 or 70% of patients in developed countries in clinical trials and maybe in in developing countries as well so I I I fully agree that there has to be a creation of a best practice system that allows uh that allows cancer medicine to move forward let me make one other point clear which is that a best practice system need not be the not even be the most economic practice system and we have to discriminate between these two things the the most cost-saving solution may not be the best solution but we need to have a conversation about which is the better solution for us as a as a society or a healthare system is is there an intermediate point which saves cost or is and is most effective for the amount of cost given I think these conversations are so vital and that the fact that we're not having them instead are spending our time talking about nonsense in cancer you know how to how to how to fund and how to move forward the most basic science um because because there there are there you because because we cannot manage to fund a basic National Cancer effort is really is really depressing to me well just to wrap up I just said arth I just want to thank you for this book and thank you for helping us to know our own Narrative of something that that I think all of us have been exposed to and think about um that we experience in our lives and I think it's uh such a great and valuable contribution I really recommend everyone we do have the book outside the Emperor of vol mality so thank you so much for this thank you so much and and you know my my my last message is don't don't don't let anyone convince you that this is someone else's problem this is your problem this is my problem it's a national problem we need to solve it thank you ladies and gentlemen to [Applause] AR [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: aNa4Y4v2wfA (https://youtu.be/aNa4Y4v2wfA) ===

it is my privilege to introduce our guest speaker there are plenty of places you can learn about his distinguished career so instead of repeating those details I want to briefly describe what Dr Muer's work means to me as a Premed student what is most remarkable to me about Dr mukerji's career is the breath of his understanding he is an incredibly accomplished doctor and researcher who deeply understands the canc the science of cancer research and is advancing it in his lab he is also a great historian who shows us how the most current and Advanced Medical Science is the product of very long historical processes and thirdly he understands people in his books essays documentaries and lectures he has illuminated how Society politics and human human behavior all shape science this is what is remarkable and inspiring to me as someone who is hopefully starting a career in medicine during my time and Professor Lois banta's lab this year Professor B theon's in previous years and throughout my college lab courses I've worked with professors and classmates to study a number of biological processes across a range of disciplines I've had incredible experiences in the lab and ultimately I'm inspired by opportunities to conduct research that could be scientifically and medically useful but as I get ready to leave Williams and pursue medical school I also have to think about the human aspects we pursue our studies out of science scientific curiosity but also because we want to help people and we do that work in a historical and social context amid ethical and political and economic debates among others ultimately medicine and medical science are human social processes and they are ways that we can situate ourselves within the biological Universe Dr mookery has done more than almost anyone alive to make us aware of this fact and to ask us to make sure that we do that work in ways that are both scientifically valuable and serve Humanity that goal inspires me and whatever field you work in I hope similar questions will inspire you too and I'm sure he will have valuable advice for us all so please join me in welcoming Dr sidar Mukerji thank you president Mandel The Faculty Scholars fellow honores and friends and most importantly thank you and an enormous congratulations to the class of 2024 I'm deeply honored and humbled to be able to participate at your commencement and may I begin by asking all of you yourselves to give yourself a round of applause and don't stop until your heart is full [Applause] please [Applause] [Applause] continue congratulations uh this may count as a ceremony of the brain but I'm going to talk from my heart I'm going to talk about one truth about one Journey to Find truth and I'm going to leave you with one task every graduation marks two transitions a birth and a death it would be tempting and easy of course to begin with the birth and yes I will come to that but perhaps surprisingly allow me to begin with the latter with death parents and graduates don't worry this is not a morbid talk but an uplifting one it's a talk that I hope that you will remember as you think about your own birth and Rejuvenation let me begin with a personal truth my truth is marked by two statements and two questions but first some context I'm a physician an oncologist I see cancer patients and my goal is to treat and sometimes cure the deadliest of diseases and despite having a degree in overeducation I fail I fail often there's a common Trope written into the conventional ethos of medicine that the patient fails the treatment but for me that Trope is always reversed I fail the patient what happens at that moment here we arrive at the most profound of Transitions and we arrive at a moment that is Elemental ancient and Universal a moment that we've encountered since the birth of our species I have to State the obvious not experienced it myself but I've borne witness to it more than a thousand times a 7-year-old girl with Advanced leukemia died in a clinical trial last month her heart fluttering at 300 beats per minute as she held her mother's hand a young English Professor with ovarian cancer who was denied her dream to finish her last book an elderly man with prostate cancer who had just welcomed a grandchild in the days before these patients and many others like them have died I've asked them if they were they've had things that they've wanted to to say or do in anticipation of that final moment and of course the answers have been Broad and diverse some have wanted to climb mountains some have wanted to read poems I heard a fly Buzz some have wanted to rage against fate some have wanted peace and sanctity but over time I began to see a pattern a universality a convergence abstracted simplified stripped of particularities every person that I've met at this moment of transition wanted to make four offerings two statements two questions directed at someone that they knew or perhaps someone that they've never explicitly spoken these words to I want to tell you that I love you I want you to tell me that you love me I want to tell you that I forgive you I want to ask you for your forgiveness four offerings offerings so important and profound that I must force myself even even as I speak to the most attentive and sympathetic of audiences to repeat them I want to tell you that I love you I want you to tell me that you love me I want to tell you that I forgive you I want to ask ask you for your forgiveness love and forgiveness death and transition but what you might ask now does any of this have to do with graduation perhaps you're thinking oh God he's picked up the wrong papers for the speech this was the one he wrote for a funeral but no since we've broken the rules of a commencement speech let's continue to break some more I want you to perform an exercise some of you are sitting next to friends some with parents some are together some dispersed close your eyes if you'd like turn to someone that matters in your life physically or mentally and really really think about this as you say to them I want to tell you that I love you I want you I want to ask you to tell me that you love me I want to tell you that you that I forgive you I want to ask you for your forgiveness do it this afternoon if you wish to do it as you walk out of this room or do it when you're at home packing your suitcases for that new job in New York or Toledo or Acra or New Delhi but do it now to mark this moment of transition don't wait for the moment that you are inhabiting experiencing encountering also marks a transition there's a birth and the death and here is the Crux this is the lesson that we can learn from dying that we can also apply to life and to living waiting merely delays the inevitable do it at this moment as you cross the door or as you wait for the car to take you to the airport with your over stuffed suitcases just as you will do it when you await the final Crossing where there's nothing to carry and only a lonely boat to help you cross the river these four offerings two questions and two statements mark my personal truth it took me years even decades a lifetime of immersion in medicine and caregiving to recognize the universality of these two simple sentences first that there is a lesson in dying that we must incorporate into living and second that this lesson belongs not just to the final Crossing but to every Crossing including this one accept and return love accept and return forgiveness but perhaps I've left or introduced a lingering sense of unease in this room I've tossed in a difficult uncomfortable word and I've used it without apologies I've used it with no hyphens no inverted quotes no italics no question mark at the end not truth but simply truth and now you're thinking he's really lost it having just finished about death now he's going to talk about truth really yes really I have here two props books published by Mahatma Gandhi both both first editions both collections of essays from the 1940s and 1950s the first is called Civil Disobedience a working manual and the second Freedom a users guide nope I lied that's not true in fact if you lose closely the first is called Village Industries and the second is called Cooperative farming I'll spare you the full contents of this collection one contains a scintillating piece on composting and the manufacturer of manure the second has an equally intriguing piece on the various merits of spinning cotton into coarse cloth why why am I telling you all of this because there is a mythopoetic image of Gandhi popularized in films and geographies in which a bespectacled and half- naked lawyer reeling from humiliating encounters with the British in London and South Africa apparitions suddenly in India like a peace Nick cheser cat this is comic book Gandhi the superhero in a loin cloth he wakes up one morning and marches to the ocean shore to protest the Absurd salt tax proposed by the Empire and thus perhaps one is made to think is Born the most significant of his personal truths the idea of civil disobedience but the real plot is different the real Gandhi is at first a deep scholar of history of law of culture and of course agriculture long before he becomes Mahatma the Great Soul he is a searching doubtful agonized peripatetic Soul he travels through India on third class train compartments he lives with the so-called Untouchables and Spins cotton to understand the nation's Soul he reads vation iously he consumes Buddhism Christianity Hindu theology English poetry marks Mill the writings of Luther he cleans toilets he learns to farm and he makes compost nearly half a decade passes and then slowly like a slow burning fire it begins to come it here too buried in one sentence on Village Life and I quote nonviolence with its techniques of satyagraha literally clinging to the truth without violence and and non-cooperation will be the sanction of our community arguably one of the most provocative sentences in the history of politics in human history a sentence that shook Nations sense Shivers through colonial governments shamed armies of men and toppled Empires buried quietly in a book called Cooperative farming what do we make of this these books and exploratory essays within them represent an incredible intellectual journey in Cooperative farming Gandhi found the seeds of non-cooperative Civil Disobedience the compost was a metaphor of transformation the decomposition of the shreds and peels of a morally spent Empire that would enable The Rebirth of nation in Village government he formulated the idea of localized distributive self-reliant governance in spinning cotton he learned to spin history truth then to Gandhi was not a divine revelation but a discovery not a product but a process it could only be found could only be found through an immersive Journey that took him across a vast unbounded physical subcontinent and an even vaster unbounded metaphysical continent it had to be excavated brought to life for it might be buried for all you know in a book truth was not divined it was realized it was a fragile shape-shifting thing a loin cloth not a straight jacket it had to be learned studied wrapped around oneself you had to learn to feel it touch it know it you had to fold it into shapes twist it and ask whether the cloth would still fit and perhaps most importantly you had to doubt it subjected to reason and skepticism pull it Tau to test its resilience it is not a coincidence that Gandhi's most famous book is not called my conclusions about truth but rather my my experiments with truth experiments with personal truths there's only one challenge in post col life graduation leaves you with a singular mission to discover a personal truth but you won't find it easily you'll have to experiment with it question it reason with it you may have to travel through your own metaphysical continent a dangerous torturous Journey that you should not underestimate imate you may have to reject that truth at first and only accept it once it is passed the skepticism that your education has taught you to exercise you have to read it learn it immerse yourself in it the point is this this most magnificent institution has prepared you to start the journey and I know that you will take it with utmost seriousness your truth is not something to be casually discovered you will have to immerse yourself in its history its geography the landscape in iTab inhabits the stories it encompasses Gandhi didn't have a liberal arts education but he he invented one from scratch with one sole purpose to propel himself in his quest fortunately you've been armed with the tools of reason and thinking and so as you leave this August ceremony in this beautiful place you begin your own journey of Discovery it's time to begin your experiment with truth death truth I'm not going to talk about taxes but we have covered a lot of forbidden ground why not end this with birth what again you might ask does one do with a personal truth I gave you four offerings but I could also describe them as four responsibilities I'm the child of a refuge refug in 1946 a few weeks before the partition of India a transition so gory and blood stain that it still defies words and memory my grandmother a young Widow then left what is now Bangladesh with five boys and a steel suitcase she arrived in Kolkata a nervous Brack Broken City on the edge of riots a city already overburdened and spent she set up a home in a one room tenament the children inhabited the room and she slept in the makeshift kitchen there's no money for food so there would be money for books at night each of the boys got half a piece of white paper and a shared pencil to finish homework I might note in passing that over the last 5 years I've written three papers that have formed the core for the discovery of three novel Cancer drugs in each case the essential idea was scribbled with a pencil on half a sheet of white paper years later when my grandmother came to live with us in Delhi the suit steel suitcase had still that had been fed across so many cities came with her but it remained in the back of her closet seals shut no one knew what it contained she would Parry questions about it and it would slowly be forgotten when she died I opened the suitcase there were of course predictable object of a refugees last grabbing MOS of ardor and Desperation some jewelry a portrait letters an old shawl pockmarked by Ms but in the midst of this wrapped in cloth were four school books books some years before she had died I'd asked her what I was to do with the contents of the suitcase and she had said mysteriously give them back but the content was so outdated there was no giving back it left me totally mystified who cares about a math textbook from the 1940s in 1986 when I was 16 I walked into the library at Berkeley University there were shelves upon shelves of books Einstein Newton the lives of a cell Darwin Russo France fenon Baldwin Dickinson Monroe in looking longingly at those overstuffed shelves from which knowledge might perhaps just pour out like golden liquid if I just gave the Shelf a small jolt I decided that I too would make a transition I would also pick up a suitcase and migrate seeking a new life new knowledge and new books it would be unseemly and frankly desecrating to make any comparison between my grandmother's migration and mine but in keeping with the family tradition I too underwent a transition and a rebirth I came to study abroad but it was only after I finished medical school in my late 20s that I returned to my my grandmother's request give them back stupid stupid me it wasn't the books with their outdated equations in Old School writing it was the responsibility that comes with Transitions and rebirths and it was perhaps fittingly a reformulation of the four offerings and perhaps you can think through them with me again I want to understand how to return love I want to understand how I can have my love returned I want to forgive I want to understand how to accept forgiveness and so there you have it a reformulation of my personal truths into personal responsibilities into action it is the ultimate form of rebirth since it enables the emergence the composting of the new you and that is the answer the purpose of finding a person truth is to transform it into an action once you finished your experiment that is once you finished the quest it is time for action but not before you will transform your truth into a responsibility and that in turn will enable the birth of your new self it does not Escape me that I titled my speech the four offerings that word offering it is operative here for it implies not just an acceptance at death but a giving at Birth do both and do them with the utmost conviction thank you so much [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ad6ogUq9Ssw (https://youtu.be/ad6ogUq9Ssw) ===

m good evening everyone and welcome thank you so much for tuning in tonight my name is kate bruns and on behalf of harvard bookstore the harvard university division of science and the harvard library i am so pleased to welcome you to this evening's event with you and anglus ashley discussing his new book the genome odyssey medical mysteries and the incredible quest to solve them in conversation tonight with siddhartha mukherjee tonight's lecture is part of our harvard science book talk series which brings the authors of recently published science-related literature to our cambridge community and now beyond coming up this month we will be hosting events with nobel prize winning biologist paul nurse and nobel prize-winning physicist steven weinberg to learn more about the science book talks you can visit the webpage harvard.com science or sign up for the bookstore's email newsletter at harvard.com we also have a youtube page where you can view previous talks you might have missed i will post links in the zoom chat for those in just a few minutes this evening's talk is going to conclude with some time for your questions if you would like to ask our speakers anything please go to the q a chat at the bottom of the screen where you can submit a question we're going to get through as many as time allows for this evening i would also just like to say a tremendous thank you for your patronage during these strange virtual times your support makes this author series possible and really does ensure the future of a landmark independent bookstore so thank you to our partners at harvard university and thank you to all of you for tuning in and showing up for our authors indie book selling and especially for science and finally as you may have experienced in virtual gatherings technical issues may arise and if they do i'm going to do my best to resolve them quickly so thank you for your patience and understanding and now i am honored to introduce tonight's speakers professor of medicine and genetics and associate dean at stanford university you and angus ashley is renowned for his contributions to genomic and precision medicine on the stanford faculty dr ashley led the team that carried out the first clinical interpretation of a human genome today he directs the clinical genome program and the center for inherited cardiovascular disease at stanford hospital where genome sequencing is routinely used in patient diagnoses now his award-winning work has been recognized by the obama white house and the national institutes of health and has earned him the medal of honor from the american heart association joining him in conversation tonight is celebrated writer oncologist and researcher siddhartha mukherjee he is the author most recently of the gene and intimate history recognized as one of the most influential books of 2016. and he is the author of the emperor of all maladies a biography of cancer winner of the 2011 pulitzer prize for general nonfiction tonight they'll be discussing dr ashley's brand new book the genome odyssey celebrated as quote destined to be a landmark narrative in the canon of modern science of the book dr mukherjee writes dr ashley one of the pioneers of gene sequencing technologies writes with authority elegance and simplicity to enable an in-depth understanding of the most exciting scientific developments of our times every curious reader must read this book we are so honored to host them for this conversation tonight so without further ado dr ashley and dr mukherjee the digital podium is yours uh well hello and welcome um welcome even and congratulations on your book um so much so let's start with the um you know just a little bit of introduction um 1990 was the official date when the human genome project was announced and that brings us now to about 30 years give or take um and that's been those have been landmark 30 years so the the first human genome um was sequenced at the cost of about three or four billion dollars um now you can sequence human genomes not i would say the reactive parts of the human genome the exome um at for about i don't know a thousand dollars six hundred dollars seven hundred dollars something like that um so it's been a you know a a a kind of moore's law kind of shift in um in in that uh in that moment um so we we are also standing so 30 years from the origin of the human genome project and of course i can't help but remark that we're also standing in the midst of a pandemic where genomics sequencing of viral genomes sequencing of viral strains has led to a a completely new understanding of infectious disease so um somehow you know both these are kind of landmark moments and have really changed the way we think about the world the way we think about ourselves and the way we think about our futures but let me begin with you personally um you and tell us what prompted you to write this book what was the what was the inspiration and why did you choose to write this book well thanks first of all uh for for being here for being in conversation with me today yeah i you know i came to science initially because of books actually not so much because of teachers in the end i had great science teachers but at high school i was reading books by people like richard dawkins and steve pinker and jared diamond and those sorts of people really were the ones that brought me into science and so i'd always admired that plus as i was in medical school i really enjoyed oliver sex and his work just tremendous writing and so at some level i i knew that i might want to try and write one day and i certainly spend my life as a doctor inspired by these stories of these incredible patients who go through just amazing things often with rare diseases where they're on a long medical journey and odyssey for sometimes years going from doctor to doctor to doctor and that's just was a is a very inspiring thing to watch and so part of me really just wanted to tell that story um but also inspired by books like yours you know i i also understand how much of of a narrative sciences and that science is really a team sport we work together and we spend days and days going after a problem weeks turn to months uh eventually the problem cracks and moves forward and it moves forward in interesting ways and and so my my thought was that it might be interesting for others to read about these scientific narratives the excitement of the chase as it were but to try and bring those to human life with the real stories of of my patients uh and other patients that we came to know so all of those things i think together were what eventually led me to to start but but uh i'd say your your own writing and a tool gawandi were also both uh very prominent in in the last kind of decade of course for all of us interested in really lucid medical and scientific narratives and so very inspirational to be able to to pick those up and just to try in my own modest way to contribute something small to the to the cannon well it's it's not small it's a it's a big book and tell tell tell us tell us about the um writing process for a doctor and um and you know i'll certainly share my observations but but you know you you you play three roles really in in this book right so on one hand you're the author um on the on the other hand you're a doctor and on the third you're a scientist or a geneticist um so you play three roles how you know just to contrast uh this with uh for instance oliver sacks um you know oliver who i knew uh quite well didn't have that that third role because you know genetics was just being born um he would ask people he would ask his patients questions about their family history but the idea of of the genome being a a tool almost a medical tool kind of i would call it i would describe it as a kind of stethoscope um into into your in into what lies deeply inside you um didn't exist uh he you know and so many cases one wonders if if if those cases would have been solved using that that stethoscope which was missing in in medicine so tell us about how you resolve these three um roles um you know doctor scientist and and and author um and tell us a little bit about writing the writing as a process so you know the book you know goes is is a compendium of stories they're kind of whodunits um mysteries and and in in every case you you use the uh the genome as a kind of as i said as a kind of medical stethoscope which would not have been available um you know 10 or 15 years ago but is available now um how did you how did you go about writing this did you write at night do you write when the stories came up did you remember them um what was the way how did you choose these in particular uh how did you do it yeah well no so so many things there i mean yeah definitely think of the genome as a molecular stethoscope first of all and i think it would have been amazing if oliver had access to that okay i would only imagine the stories he might have told with this tool at his fingertips as well yeah for me i think it started very practically like for many of us uh when you have downtime and just a little bit of space which in in a former world that we can barely remember now was when we got on planes and so i distinctly remember the first time when i started writing and the stories had been in my head for some time some patients are they're so memorable uh that you carry these stories around with you uh for years in many cases and uh you know i told them to to a variety of people at times obviously uh in an anonymous fashion so the idea of potentially going back to revisit with those patients and really trying to dig into their memories and mine uh did it with my longtime colleague and nurse partner in the clinic and we sort of dug through our own memories to try and bring back the details and then yeah i think with uh with the young family a lot of writing happens either on a plane or early in the morning or late at night or sometimes you send the family off on a hike or something else and get a get a few hours to to just try to find time um you know i think that the the inspiration of the story and the drive to write it down is where it begins uh of course as i've learned uh it's a long way between just getting the words down on the page and trying to put them into a form that hopefully will will be ingestible by people and enjoyable uh by people as well but yeah juggling juggling those three things is is not easy i think that to my current work i'm a cardiologist and at stanford and so my cl i have a clinic every every week and then three or four times a year i also work in the critical care unit at stanford so i you know there's plenty of if you like there's plenty of material for patient stories so it's almost like one day in the life on a coronary care unit produces three or four human stories that that would be worth telling and as you mentioned in the middle of the pandemic it's almost like those are more acute those human stories are even closer up and made all the more uh extreme perhaps because often the families are not there until the very last minute in many cases as has been the case over this last year and let's talk a little bit about let's shift gears and talk a little bit about the human genome and its odyssey um and um tell us about sort of what have we learned in the you know the 30 years that have passed um or you know [Music] when when the human genome was sequenced as you know it was a big event uh announced in the white house uh jointly by uh by um francis collins and by uh craig venter the president was there and it was you know it was considered a a kind of a public private uh victory although as you know um very well that victory was tinged by a public private competition that went that that that preceded it uh but in the end a kind of compromise was reached in which uh the you know the public and private um attempts to sequence the human genome were announced jointly and out came a string of three billion letters in ac tng and if you were a layperson you would look at that string of letters and say gosh you know three billion letters of a human being's genome what do i make of it i mean you know it's like it's like a book in which you a language you don't understand what has highlight for us what has happened in the and take your time to answer this what have we learned about the human genome since the publication of that actg list or the actg code um of the first of the first of the first human being well i think that you you you lay it out very nicely as a 30-year odyssey of its own like the human genome in fact and there are and i dip into that at various points in the book so there's there's one story where i dip into the origins of where the human reference sequence came from like the people who volunteered anonymously to to give their dna to be mixed into a uh into a into a little pot that would then be uh spat out as you said with the as these letters it was originally going to be ten people uh and it turned out in the end to be basically two um so they and they came from buffalo in new york and so i dig a little bit into that history which is as you said it's like the early 90s and there's some interesting little elements that i certainly wasn't aware of that i uncovered as a result of that and then the pivotal moment as you said about 10 years later 3 billion 10 years 10 countries and we have a draft sequence uh which was just an incredible moment but i think then everybody thought well suddenly now there's going to be a big change and and in fact much of the next 10 years was really trying to work out do a little bit more finishing work out what it meant start to you know the number of genes that were estimated at the time the genome draft sequence came out was something like 40 000 and if you watch the literature every few years it drops to where it currently has set pretty much uh stable at that twenty thousand just under um so we spent about ten years just really learning about the anatomy of the genome and i think that the major part of this book though is really these last ten years which is i think when when the genome finally became relevant not just for science and discovery and the fundamental nature of just knowing the genome and understanding the letters and how much was made up of genes and how much was the parts in between the genes but but making that really relevant to to human medical care and so i talked about at the very beginning of the book walking into my colleague steve quake's office and he'd been the fifth person in the world he sequenced his own genome with a technology he invented in his lab for for about forty thousand dollars which now as you said now you can do it for five hundred so forty thousand sounds like a lot but the one before it was two hundred thousand and it had taken months and months and involved many different teams so it really was a leap forward and and the beginning of the book is really where when i met him and i was in his office and he started showing me his genome on the screen which to me was just mind-blowing because we were at that time used to sending genetic tests that had maybe three genes or maybe eight jeans on them and it took three months to come back and cost five thousand dollars and here it was somebody you know on my on campus just down from my office like scrolling through his whole genome and that was just you know an incredible moment for me and then when we realized that he essentially had a pretty significant history of heart disease in his family including his cousin's son who died suddenly with with no known cause that was the moment things switched from this is a scientific you know incredible scientific moment to suddenly a doctor-patient thing because it was clear that even without his genome he needed to come to a clinic and be screened given all this disease in his family but as as i was essentially inviting him to my clinic it became clear that he was also about to be the first person to walk into a clinic basically with his genome and that we had no idea what we were going to do with it you know and so that was really the revelation that led us this is 2009 to start to work on some computer methods to really understand the genome in the context of medicine thinking like if you're a gp with 12 minutes and you know in a world where patients have their genomes how do you integrate that data in a way that's useful in a way that can be ingested in a way that really helps personalize the care of that patient and so that's the the work the world we've in this last decade the world we kind of stepped along and i think you know at the end of the book i end up saying that i i think after 2009 we were all like naive thinking well in a couple of years everyone will have their genome sequence that really for a moment felt a bit like that because in the weeks and months after we published the first paper lots of people with access to funds were able to get their genome sequence then they were calling us up and saying can you help us can you help us but but really what happened over the decade it took to get to this point was a maturing of that technology we started to get encyclopedias of genes together connections between genes and diseases we began to understand the harder parts of the genome knew what we were getting and what we were missing where the errors were and so that's been a really big process a lot of it computational but also the technology for sequencing has improved and that's taken us to the point where really it's almost routine now for rare disease to be sequencing the genome at least in the u.s not not everywhere yet but it's it's essentially every day we're ordering genome sequencing for rare disease and then the other two parts of it are when you know in rare disease this we just had rare disease day at the end of february you know february 28th or 29th every year is rare disease day and we always get a chance to remind people that one in ten people has a rare disease which seems mind-blowing every time i think about it which makes rare disease as a category as common as diabetes and this genome can be applied to everyone with rare disease but the the question then that comes up is what about the other nine out of 10 people when is the genome relevant for much more broadly for cancer for cardiovascular disease but the really the big killers of our society and i think interestingly we're just about at that moment now we can start to sequence at much lower depth instead of covering the genome 40 times we can cover it just once or twice and use that information to start to integrate a score that would help us allow us to make a much more precise prediction of whether someone will have a heart attack or to to put that together with certain well-known genes that can predispose towards cancer if they're mutated uh to give an overall sense of risk so that we know what kind of screening to apply and that day is just coming so i think places like stanford and and in boston those kind of technologies are just becoming available really this year but will start to spread i think to the rest of the world coming on now so it's been a pretty amazing 20 or 30 years so so as we i mean just to take a very broad look at it we we started moving from um you know the great pioneer victim of cusick and others um uh pioneered among the first rare disease clinics in in the world um and um and this was at hopkins and of course they didn't have access to any of these technologies this was this was even long before the human genome project but now we're moving then there was a phase in which you could use the genome to study uh to find rare diseases or the mutations that cause rare diseases and now you're using the genome to find uh genes and often there are hundreds there often may even be thousand genes gene variants that cause common diseases like you know a risk a higher risk elevated risk for breast cancer an elevated risk of ovarian cancer and elevated risk for um cardiac disease etc etc um one one uh question that um has has often occurred to me um not as a doctor so well i i should say as a as a humanist more than anything else is that as we enter this kind of new phase of our lives um where the genome becomes a predictor of future disease um what do you think that does to the minds of people and to um and to society in general um i'm thinking of of this idea of of living under the sort of the anxious umbrella of the genome and and um and that anxious umbrella is constant in other words you know you're born and you get your genome sequenced and out pops a a series of diseases common diseases um i'll give you two breast cancer and the risk of dying of uh of a heart attack um that now you're you're still a babe in the arms um and yet yet you have the possibility of knowing a score as you call it um yeah of whether you will get this disease in your future life um talk to us about how to manage or navigate that world and how you might want to navigate that word for your own children yeah i think it's a revelation that was a big part of our thinking when we started to do this because i think at some level understanding the genome was some something about telling you something about what it meant to be human but also something about predicting your future and when we first were sequencing genomes i don't think we were very good at predicting the future uh but actually we now have much bigger studies on which to base our scores and so we we now are in the position to apply these scores in a way that's helpful but i think that that while there's clearly an element of what you describe and for some people they will find that they have variance in their genome of large effect they really are somewhat deterministic of what something really will likely happen in their lifetime that relates to that finding most of these um changes that we talk about and it can even be up to millions now spread across the genome that get incorporated into a score what they do is is change the probability they move the needle a little bit so if you go to your gp and talk about your risk for heart attack they'll ask you of course about they'll talk about cholesterol you'll have it measured they'll measure your blood pressure talk about diabetes your lifestyle and all of that will get filtered into uh into a score which is online and available to anyone and will come up with a 10-year risk of a heart attack and you know if it's above seven percent there'll be a lot more focus on giving a cholesterol drug for example the thing is that we've known for years that for heart disease half of the half of it is nature half is nurtured just about about those kind of numbers it's about 50 50. and right now actually the score we use in the us doesn't take any account of the of the nature part at all it's all it's all nurture it's all about the environment which is is really important because those are the things you can change uh but if you really want to know what your risk is and that's the basis in which you're making the decision you want to use the genomic information too so it's a little bit more like that number becomes more precise instead of it being five percent with an 80 probability or probably a bit lower it's now seven percent but with a 90 probability that's the way to think about the impact of the genome on these kinds of diseases it's more of a probabilistic it moves the needle a little bit but that's not to say that as you say if we start to roll out full genome sequencing even early in life there will be people who have a future that is change is of their their assessment of the future will be changed as a result of knowing that information and that's something in the early days we actually included the first person i called actually after we realized that steve quake was going to come to the clinic was an ethicist tank and greely who you may know who's written very elegantly and recently about crispry as a book about that and in the past about genome sequencing and these kinds of questions so for example something we hadn't thought a lot about in our clinic was if we do very targeted sequencing then it's really mostly focused on that individual but for steve for example we were looking across his whole genome including at genes that would cause potentially breast cancer and might be relevant for his daughter so there are all those kind of questions that also are relate to the family aspect of genetics where we share not just our environment but we share genes with our family members and it's anything that we learn as a result of or anything i learn as a result of sequencing my genome is relevant for my brother for my sister for my parents for my kids and how do you i mean just to push you a little bit on that point how do you negotiate that or what's you have a sense of how you negotiate that so i mean it will soon come to a point of time when that information which is of course extraordinarily private to you because it's about your genome becomes relevant to your sister i've had this case many times in which i've had a person who has had a mutation in let's say the bracha one gene and i've had to have a conversation with them uh if it's a woman um um or a man um you know do you wanna do you want to talk to talk about this with your daughters or with your son but but with the daughters is very relevant because obviously their risk is more immediate the sun of course also has a risk but that risk is passed has a risk himself but the risk has been then passed across uh the next generation um how are you negotiating this in you know in your clinic you're you're out to sequence you know some gene that causes cardiomyopathy and kaboom you find that someone is draco one positive um what do you do how does one negotiate that information yeah well the first and most important thing we found early on was to make sure that a genetic counselor was part of every every single interaction that we had and so early on we actually hired someone straight out of uh genetic counselling school who was just a perfect fit for this kind of of position because those are not easy conversations to have and the whole structure of understanding this kind of information at scale that's then relevant throughout the family is is a really a different skill set even from the one that had been traditionally taught and now of course every everyone who comes out of these schools understands variant selection and variant curation and understands how to deal with genome level data but it doesn't make the underlying question any simpler because what we're dealing with at the end of the day is families and family dynamics and in many ways these are issues that our family practice physicians have even even more um experience of than us in super sub-specialized care my father was a gp uh and growing up i as a little kid i used to to go on house calls with him basically that was when i before i ever knew i wanted to to do science or uh or or do um computers which is what drew me into the data side of all this uh i knew i wanted to be a doctor it was partly because of going with him on house calls and we'd go into people's homes and there would usually be at least two sometimes three generations of of people there and so i think that it's not new to medicine the concept that there's relevance from one generation to the next whether it's environmentally transmitted or or genetically transmitted but it does make for for difficult conversations especially when these things have to date being hidden and one individual has decided to shine a bright light in it i think that's what's new and so we obviously have to talk about in advance encourage them as you did with your patient to talk to their family members potentially in advance and then make a decision that you hope is the right one for the whole family and families that come in such diverse shapes and sizes that part of the joy of the medicine that we get to do is is interacting with these families and and really getting to know them all and most families find that find their own way to make this work but it's not it's not simple um uh you know if you don't mind i'll i'll ask you to read a little bit from your book because i like um i really like it when authors read from their book if it's if it's okay with you i'd like you to um choose a passage that is interesting or a story or and then and then you know once you're done with that tell us about why that story is in the book and and how how you you know thought about it yeah yeah thanks thanks for asking and this is actually a relatively uh uh recent decision but i think this little this story touches on a few of the points that we've been making in conversation and has some relevance for for your part of the world as well i'll start actually it start before i give you the background i'll start with the beginning of the story and then i'll give a little background and then i'll read a little bit more this is from chapter river of the land of pine trees it was the sound it was really like an animal sound like a moaning and i was trying to talk to her but there was no response there are no words that can begin to describe what runs through the mind of a mother who has found her teenage daughter blue and lifeless lying in a pool of her own spit a few minutes before susan graham's daughter leilani had been a normal 13 year old vibrant fun sporty very much like her parents susan's husband chris was focused on the rising tide of personal electronics in kids lives and a generation growing up increasingly sedentary both mom and dad were active in coaching and refereeing soccer and basketball invested in lead by example encouragement to be active but there was also more direct encouragement there was a system in the graham household if you want to watch tv you also run on this particular night delaney had been working out as usual on the treadmill in the garage chris was out at a meeting susan was also supposed to be out but her plans had changed so she was sitting at home on the sofa the back up to the wall next to the garage susan heard the treadmill whirring as usual then she heard another sound it did not she recalled sound entirely human but whatever it was she was clear about one thing it was not good she sprinted to the garage and found lulani collapsed unconscious on the treadmill guttural morning emanated from her slowly the writhing body susan stopped the treadmill called 9-1-1 and waited leilani was breathing but not coming around when the paramedics arrived she was still unconscious could it be drugs could it be a seizure it wasn't immediately obvious what the problem was but at the hospital it soon became clear an ultrasound of her heart revealed an abnormally thickened heart lilani had a life-threatening genetic heart disease of the heart muscle called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and that event was not a seizure but a cardiac arrest so this opens the chapter and tells a little bit about the story of lulani and then over the course of the next few pages we talk about the history of the disease hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and it's his and the history of of bringing people back to life using electricity but i think the part i wanted to read a little more of was relating to the genome because that's the center part of the book and the centerpiece of our conversation and so i'll read just another couple of pages that relate to how we discovered the basis of this disease and then how we worked out in her case what the genetic cause was the first clue in the hunt for the genetic cause of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy came from an unexpected place next to the sweeping lush green parklands in southeast quebec a few miles from the american border and about 20 miles south of the nearest large town sherbrooke is the town of kotikuk the name kotikuk is of abunaki origin meaning river of the land of pine trees in french the area is known as pearl de canton de last because of its natural beauty but kotikuk became known for something less beguiling the kodiku curse that took many of its citizens early with strokes and sudden death in the fall of 1957 two brothers aged 39 and 41 originally from this town were admitted to the royal victoria hospital in montreal with strokes both were found to have enlarged hearts both also came under the care of peter parray a six foot four lung specialist known for his gentle humorous teaching style fascinated by the coincidence of strokes and enlarged hearts and the two brothers hurray became convinced there must be a genetic explanation so much so that he dedicated the next few years of his life to understanding the cause of the disease in the family the brothers he learned were not alone in total he studied 27 family members asking many to come to the hospital for clinical examinations some of them several times in july 1961 he published his seminal paper hereditary cardiovascular dysplasia a form of familial cardiomyopathy in which he described 20 living affected black family members as well as another 10 who had previously died and even traced the origin of the disease back to one particular immigrant who came to quebec in 1650. in fact in the four years it took him to complete the work five family members died suddenly if ever there were a family waiting for the right genetic technology to narrow down the cause of condition it was this one genome scale sequencing of course was a long way off the human genome project wouldn't get started for decades but the linkage mapping technology was invented in 1980 and it could help with this technology and a family like the one from the pieces were in place and the seminal work describing the genetic underpinnings of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy was led by husband and wife team christine and jonathan seidman of harvard medical school together with bill mckenna in london they approached the family first characterized by dr parry and invited them to weekend reunions where they could learn about the research study and comment and consent to join more than 100 family members signed up for what was to become a tour de force of genetic discovery the linkage mapping method was labor-intensive but extremely powerful so powerful in fact that the cyber laboratory estimated odds of two billion to one that the gene responsible was in the identified narrow region given strong odds that this was the right corner of the genome in which to look the team started fine mapping by sequencing the critical genes in this area until they found one gene the cardiac myosin heavy chain part of the molecular motor of the heart that looked to be responsible the genetic variant was found in every single family member with the disease the kotiku curse turned out to be one misspelled letter in the genome where there was supposed to be a g there was an eight great um and of course it makes me think about uh the pioneering work done by nancy wexler um before this where they uh ultimately mapped the huntington's disease gene uh using techniques and of course similar techniques i should say and then ultimately found the gene responsible for for huntington's disease which is if i remember correctly the first time that someone had had had moved this was a big team but that had moved from um you know from the uh mr from a mysterious disease that affected many members of a family to the actual uh misspelling of the of the of the genome itself um i think um we should move to questions if that's uh if that's okay and there's some other or that already up um if i i'll start asking them um and then you know we can go back and forth a little bit but um let me move to the questions um the first question is from um someone anonymous it says can you elaborate a little bit more about the ethical considerations regarding the genome um and i suspect that they want to ask you about some of the things that we've been talking about you know you know once you know you know what are the ethical considerations but you know let me push that point even a little bit further um it is now possible to um to biopsy to create a biopsy a tiny fetus and you can biopsy that fetus and you can determine whether even before that fetus is implanted um so this is called pre-implantation genetic diagnosis and you can you can get extraordinarily detailed information about that fetus or that i would say uh that that collection of cells that human being um before you implant that into a womb um can you envision a future in which uh pre-implantation genetic diagnosis um for a disease like hypertrophic cardiomyopathy that runs in a family or perhaps even more something more complicated like bracha one etc um play a role in in our society and and what happens to a society where where things um things become uh relevant to um to uh pgd pre-implantation genetic diagnosis yeah i know these are really important and big big questions and thanks to to whoever put the question up for asking first of all i would say that in relation to our early genomes and we talk about this in a few chapters in the book when you first realize you have this level of information available you need a way of first of all just analyzing what's there and so a lot of our work was how do we make computers understand and how do we have them spit out the information we want and prioritize it but then in that question of priority comes our first ethical concern because some people might want to know everything and the early patients that we had were geneticists themselves who quite literally wanted to know everything but most people probably do not and so we need we needed to create a method where people could almost like turn turn dials for the sorts of things that they would want to know for example if there was a disease that was in hidden in their genome for which there wasn't a treatment a lot of people didn't want to know that and so we had to be able to set up our tools so that that was an option but if there was something that especially if there was a fairly straightforward treatment that could be implemented if they only knew they had it but we'd otherwise cut short their life they definitely wanted to know that and so then trying to make decisions about how we quantify that was hard and so then as you talk specifically about pgd this pre-implantation genetic diagnosis of embryos which is a really powerful technique and it's of course not for everyone's very personal decision but for those with severe genetic disease running in their family combining essentially in vitro fertilization with the ability to do a genetic test of the individual embryos and so the way this would work is that there would perhaps be if you're lucky as many as four to eight embryos that would each be taken to the point of as you said being a ball of cells and then one cell could safely be removed from each of the embryos and tested and let's say you have a disease that causes early fatality you you can test those individual embryos and then only implant the embryos that are that do not have the condition as with most genetic diseases there's a probability that it's passed on and so that's that's what pre-implantation genetic diagnosis is and it's it's been around for for more than 20 years although the technology to do single cell sequencing is is relatively recent but be able to amplify dna to be able to do that test that's been around for a little while so we've had patients in our in our clinic over the last decade to go through that um i think the other part that you're i think referring to now is now that we can sequence a whole genome is somebody going to suggest that we do that at the embryo stage and what kind of a difficult and dangerous world would that lead us into if now we can have scores that predict all sorts of things including maybe even intelligence whatever that means and however anyone has decided to measure it most people would agree that's not something that it would be ethical to choose embryos on the basis of and we're at the moment of course in the middle of a revolution in understanding what crispr can do for us as opposed to what it has done for millions of years for bacteria um and whether it would even be possible to either change and gene edit uh uh particularly a particularly deleterious mutation in an embryo back to the regular um non-mutated form or potentially enhanced in some way um an embryo and this of course has has been greatly in the news over the course of the last two years and even even more so with with other books that are currently uh focused on on the crispr revolution and those stories are being revisited right now so it's it's clearly an area where the ethicists need to be very deeply involved and closely uh related to everything that's happening um a quick question before we go on to some some some longer questions uh richard zub wants to know what happened to the girl on the treadmill well so i yeah so um i'm tempted to say buy the book and find out um but uh i see and seriously um she is she's doing really well um and um i'm actually next month uh having the pleasure of doing a sit down like this one uh that sid has been generous enough to do here tonight with her and so if you're if you'd be interested to hear more about her story from her uh she is an amazing patient advocate uh i won't tell you any more about her medical history although it is in the chapters in the book for want of uh spoiling the story for others but uh she she's doing great and if you'd like to see her in person then uh there's an event in about a month's time and you can hear some more now where's just just give us a little bit about where that event is and how how does one how does one find it yeah so it's uh uh hosted by stanford health library uh and so okay there is actually now uh yeah so you can go to stanford's google stanford health library or if you go to if you can type my name there's a website now connected to my name you and ashley.com that has a list of the events on there great um douglas peck um has been waiting patiently he wants to know great book by the way one of the things that impressed me was how collegial and cooperative other scientists were in working together on projects this is so unlike other technology areas do you think this that's true and if so why so many companies struggle to build teams and the ones that you describe seem to work so well together even when virtual is that is that true or is that is that made up no it's it's definitely not made up and i'm so grateful for the question um because actually that was one of the things that really inspired me to try to write this down i would sit in these rooms with these just unbelievably talented and smart people and kind of i mean inside me i'm i'm the guy who grew up in the west of scotland who you know still can't quite believe that he's here and i'm not quite believing that i'm in the room and i look around and there's just these these giant minds that are coming together with this very collaborative spirit and that's not to say i'm not completely naive about the world there's plenty of competition out there and there's plenty of times when people aren't always acting in good faith but i feel i've been really lucky and the people i've been able to work with and when i look around i see mostly that i see mostly people just bringing very high energy to an idea and and working together with other people uh and maybe it's the sunshine on the west coast or something i know that it's it's also the case in other parts of the world but uh um i i really appreciate the question because i really feel so excited to be in those teams and to be able to describe them and i think that i think it really is like that most of the time it really is um so a little a technical question but maybe you can you can unpack the words for us a little bit as you as you answer it um rossfeldberg wants to know can you comment on the proportion uh um of single gene polymorphisms with strong effects versus multiple gene forms each with weak effect and can we actually detect the latter um yeah that's a great question and actually it mirrors very nicely the conversation that we've been having where the world of whole genome genetics has moved from being focused entirely on rare disease and rare diseases are almost exclusively caused by variants of small variants of of large effects sometimes they're big variants but in general they're of large effect and and so rare diseases almost by definition are relate to that but we all have and usually it's a few million when we sequence the genome we end up with three and a half million something like that single nucleotide single base pair or single letter changes uh most of which are of pretty small effect uh and we've really just learned over the course of the last few years that the answer for that is to add them add them up and that probably most of them have some effect somewhere but the effect is overall very small and i think that overall our studies have not been large enough until quite recently to get our arms around those multiple variants of small effect we were looking at let's say the top 50 of those variants and thinking that's that's what we have and we didn't we didn't want to get it wrong so we didn't really go much beyond that but some interesting techniques um for a few different places including a couple of great groups out of boston have really looked at so-called genome-wide scores so really looking at taking you know five million variants each of which has a most of which have a very small weighting very small weaving but a small number of which have a larger weighting but but taking the weightings of all of those together really does push up just to put it in real context that score sometimes called polygenic risk score is individually more powerful than any individual risk factor for heart disease so it's more powerful than asking you whether you smoke more powerful than knowing your cholesterol more powerful in knowing if you're diabetic individually those scores are not good enough that they individually outperform those individual risk factors of course if you add all of them up together you get the best possible uh prediction and so that's what increasingly we're doing and that's we're rolling that out to stanford there's a clinic at mgh doing that now as well and i think that really is the future of bringing the nature and nurture aspects of disease together into the best predictor so that we can make the best preventive care and uh let's pause for a second there because as we get more and more refined in defining these polygenic risk scores which of course i work a little bit about with in in in the context of cancer um you know you're you're having to make difficult decisions how how much how much of it is reversible do you think i mean so just just talk about cardiac disease can we um if you get a real polygenic risk score that shows you that you have a very high risk of cardiac disease can we do anything about it well traditionally the thought has been that because it's genetic and you can't change your genome you're kind of stuck with that part but the first thing to say is that as a cardiologist everybody you know i tell every patient they should be exercising more and eating better and that goes for pretty much everyone in the world that's that you can you can say that before the patient even opens their mouth and i say that to myself every morning as well so um one of the things that that was demonstrated though is that genetic risk can be reduced through good diet exercise through lowering the other risk factors by itself of course we'd have to be talking about crispr and base editing gene dancing in in order to change the genome and that is increasingly the case i don't think we're even remotely close to thinking about changing thousands or hundreds of spots in the genome we're thinking about trying to change one then that's a big lift um but the good news is that even if your genetic risk is high environmental intervention changing your lifestyle can reduce it significantly that part is clear so it's it's definitely malleable and that's the inspiration i think for anyone out there who's thinking that it might be a bit fatalistic to measure this genome uh prediction and that you can't change it but you really can so in fact in in the netherlands they have some interesting work showing that if you just tell people that they have high cholesterol and that they should exercise more they do it at a certain rate but if you explain to them through that their genome has made them predisposed towards a heart attack and therefore they should exercise more they actually exercise at a higher rate so whether that's a certain amount we sometimes call that genetic exceptionalism people treat the genetic information differently but in reality of course your cholesterol and your genome probably shouldn't be treated differently but it turns out people really do view it differently and often are more adept at changing their lifestyle in response to genetic information than just just other environmental information um someone asks um are there any cases you detail in the book that are particularly stuck with you obviously don't give up the they don't don't give out spoilers but um but uh but is there is there is there a case that that particularly stuck with you don't yeah tell us something yeah tell us as much as you wanted him yeah yeah i mean i i think oh in many ways i i um it's hard to choose because i obviously i had to choose for the book i couldn't you know i would have written another two books the size with all the stories i wanted to put in so that there was already a little bit of a filtering but you know one of the stories that that really uh is emblematic of almost everything in the book is found in the in the middle uh somewhere in the middle and it relates to a little baby who first came to our attention when she was still in her mother's womb and her heart rate was too low 70 beats per minute and she'd be about 140 if you're swimming about in your mother's womb so we transferred her to stanford children's hospital hospital and delivered her by cesarean section and uh within the first day of her life the first 24 hours of her life she had five cardiac arrests so her heart stopped five times and it turned out she had a genetic condition called long qt syndrome so that's a condition the history of which i describe in the book but where basically the resetting of the heart with each beat is prolonged and so the next beat can't come in in time and neither of those two things matter much but it predisposes to this potentially fatal rhythm and so her case really really stuck with me for the obvious reason that there was just this little one who was only 37 weeks of age including her gestation and she'd had five cardiac arrests she became one of the youngest babies ever to have a defibrillator an electrical device and which was implanted in adults it goes under the collarbone in in babies it goes into the abdomen and she had that implanted at day two i think and then we realized though that if we could understand the genetic basis of her disease we could give her a precision therapy because there's at least two forms of this condition one where potassium channels are affected one where sodium channels are affected and if you know which one you can give the right treatment but we didn't and the and the only way to find that out was to send a test that took three months so we worked with illumina the company that does sequencing and adopted their rapid protocol to get the answer in two or three days and manage to make her therapy more precise just over the course of a weekend basically and so that sort of story uh for me and she's doing great now by the way i saw a beautiful photo of her on her five-year-old birthday just as i was fact checking the the book in the last stage i got in touch with her mom and she sent me this amazing photo for blowing out the candles on her birthday cake and so in so many ways that is emblematic of the stories in the book because it it's a patient in need it's technology at the cutting edge it's groups from industry and academia coming together everyone just doing everything they can for this little one from pediatrics from genetics from all over stanford from multiple companies coming together and being able in the end to give information to the bedside team that could make her therapy more precise but what we're calling precision medicine now so that's one of the stories i often think about as being kind of representative of the sorts of stories in the book um i'm going to take the last two questions and actually combine them um and because they're very similar uh one is from dhamma anti-gupta and uh someone anonymous um they're interested in computational and computational genetics um we talked about polygenic risk scores um and one thing that has struck me as as very interesting is that the polygenic risk scores are additive so in the sense that you know they have small weights and you you add them up and when you add them up um you you know you get a score but as we explore deeper computational methods um it might turn out that there are non-additive factors uh synergistic factors um where you know it's not a plus p but it's a multiplied by b that will give us even deeper understanding into the genome and of course we enter the arena of ai where um or machine learning where we can use even more complex methods to disaggregate this information um tell us a little bit about sort of what computational what new computational things are happening to uh to help us understand the genome at an even deeper level yeah it's a great point and i think that i mean we you talked to the beginning about moore's law this idea that technology moves so fast that every 18 months the number of transistors on an integrated circuit doubles that was the the idea from silicon valley in the 90s and 2000s of just how fast technology was moving and we applied it to the genome and found the genome sequence saying the cost was dropping even faster than that and so computation and genetics have been really tied together since since the onset of the genome in a way that they weren't in the decades before as you described in going through the amazing history of genetics in your in your book um but yeah for this last decade computation and genetics have been inseparable and in fact many of our genetic students now who come to stanford for their phd are they come because they want to do computational genetics so absolutely there's some very interesting approaches of artificial intelligence of course you don't need to go to deep neural networks to be able to get a major boost in our ability to work out what's happening with a given genome uh through computer methods but it's actually even more than that i think the combination of newer technologies improvements in our sequencing technologies and then improvements in in our algorithms the computer methods not just in speed but in accuracy our ability to really characterize the difficult areas of the genome both by sequencing in different ways uh and also having computer methods i sometimes tell the story about the a high schooler who's now i think he is about to graduate from stanford but at the time he came as a high schooler to my lab and and were part of the undiagnosed diseases network that's part of the medical mysteries that are through the book um come from this network of doctor detectives and uh he basically downloaded a new algorithm basically pulled down a new algorithm edited it somewhat and then tooled all the unsolved cases so this is high school kid in the summer and he solved one of the cases this is a family that had been spent months and even years with no answers and now with the ability to think about computers manipulate computers someone who is very very talented but in high school can come along and solve a miracle mystery and i think that's just part of the excitement that i tried to put across in the book that you it's an incredible time to be going into genetics incredible time to combine engineering skills like computer science with biology skills and just i think a really exciting time for for young people to think about this as a as a potential career great uh we are on the hour um and uh there are no more questions um you know i i was totally intrigued by the book i i loved every story in it i was you know i'm a big fan of uh of the of case histories um i i wrote a piece about we were just talking about oliver sacks and and how um you know um how he was a great fan of cases trees and what's amazing about these case histories often um if you look at them from victorian times or um or even before is that some of them have have now years later decades later were finding answers to these case histories back then there were case histories and described as you know medical mysteries that we never understood a family that had you know sudden loss of hearing um and all of a sudden you know 50 years later 100 years later you figure out that that family has a mutation in a particular gene um we we now we you know we you remember uh the the history of hemophilia in the royal family and and how deeply it influenced uh uh human history um and so um i just wanted to send you know i enjoyed the book i thought it was uh riveting to read and uh wanted to send you a word of congratulations and encourage people to to to to read this book um which you um hopefully will buy from an independent bookstore but if not i'm sure you can get your get your hands uh on the book through other sources uh any last words erin well just a word of thanks to you i mean i i think your writing is has been just such an inspiration to me and i think uh you know that the emperor of all maladies was it was a masterpiece and obviously i really was excited when you wrote about the history of genetics and so if anyone uh hasn't read siddhartha's books then they'd need to go out and get hold of those because i was actually a little embarrassed because all the books from my from my teenage years are here but i read yours all on my kindle so yeah how to put them on the back here but a huge fan are really grateful to you for for the chat this evening hopefully my my pleasure mike thanks my pleasure kate the floor is yours well i'll just wrap things up thank you tremendously you and sid for this fascinating discussion um and thank you all of you out there for joining us tonight if you would like to learn more copies of the genome odyssey are for sale on harvard.com as well are sids books um so on behalf of harvard bookstore the harvard division of science and the harvard library have a good night keep reading and please be well everyone thank you thank you very much

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: b4AsLkm-Jh4 (https://youtu.be/b4AsLkm-Jh4) ===

every individual specimen of cancer is its own individual specimen of cancer we have not encountered I think in our history a disease where every single instance of the disease is its own instance of the disease that is a unique thing about cancer even very diverse diseases I gave you the example of AIDS caused by a virus that's quite diverse across human populations but every single instance of AIDS is not really its own instance of AIDS every single instance of cancer unfortunately is its own instance of cancer

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: byCTeaF4UZ8 (https://youtu.be/byCTeaF4UZ8) ===

[Music] hello everyone I'm Gilbert Cruz editor of the New York Times book review and this is our podcast for the next many months we'll be highlighting great conversations from our decade plus archive we're planning a new iteration of this podcast and as a result we're going to take a while to figure out what that might sound like until then we hope you enjoy these trips down memory lane [Music] sidartha Mukerji is a physician a professor of medicine and a writer of big sweeping science books his first the Fantastic the Emperor of all maladies a biography of cancer won the piter prize this month he'll release his latest work the song of the cell an exploration of medicine and the new human in May 2016 sidartha spoke with this podcast about his book The Gene and intimate history Sid thanks for being here my pleasure thank you for having me let's start off with your last book um the Emperor of all Melody is one of our best books of the year when it came out in 2010 continues to sell had a long afterlife what was the aftermath of that book like when I wrote Emperor I didn't know what to think about or how to think about who would read that I wanted everyone to read the book I also thought that only my mother would read the book um you know it felt as if I was in this kind of limbo between um between reaching out to a wider audience but writing a 600 page book on cancer its history and its future I mean you could say to yourself if you were in in the right-minded frame of mind that no one would ever read that book but obviously it took on a life of its own and has continued to do so um with the film with Ken Burns it's just been unbelievable to watch people respond and read um something that's that serious and and helpful and how did you get from cancer to this book so this book three strands uh come together in this book one strand is personal the personal strand is that you know I I was thinking a lot as I as I mentioned in the book I thinking a lot about illness in my family mental illness in particular schizophrenia bipolar disease in my family this was the elephant in my childhood uh room I was always thinking about what that meant um the more I thought about disease ill um the more I came back to that question of of inheritance what do we inherit what do our families give to us how much of it is genetic how much of it is environmental um so that was one strand did this also have to do with being a father as well and sort of and it was really it was really brought fully home when my two daughters were born and thinking about the future um you know again what do you pass on what is likeness the ancient question of what is likeness uh was was very much part of it the the second strand um and it comes up later in the book was that at the same time in my lab we were learning uh techniques that we'd gotten from other scientists um very young techniques 3 four years old to manipulate the human genome um in a way that's become so fasile um we were making genetic changes in cells in stem cells in fact in a way we couldn't do six or seven months ago the technology was profound I could go to a researcher in my lab and say can you change that Gene in that cell and she or he would say yes I can I you know I'll get back two in two weeks or 3 weeks that idea for a researcher is so powerful um but of course it opens up a whole Hornet's Nest of questions and the third was again it was it came out of cancer so I was also treating cancer patients and I kept thinking to myself you know cancer is an abnormality of genes it's a cell where genes are mutated if that's the case then what's normaly how do how what makes a cell normal how what makes us what keeps us normal so in a way this book also ties That strand so it's it's like a prequel to The Emperor B Mel I was going to ask you if it's a prequel because James Glick in his review of it is a very much a prequel I mean you know you you can only understand abnormaly that on the template of the normal we know that historically we know that the the the cancer Genome Project was was built on the shoulders of the Human Genome Project it gets very little mention in the emper malies where the cancer where cancer is the focus but absolutely it's a prequel it it it deals deals with issues that are reflected um in their kind of doppelganger sense in in Emperor how is um structuring this book and the process of writing it different from uh emperor of all maladies this was in some ways a harder book to write because it's a the structure is a little inverted in an emperor you have a lot of desire for getting out of the kind of the the Wormhole of cancer and then you finally discover the science in this book it's it's inverted you have to go through some science for us to understand the future um but all of a sudden when you arm yourself with with with all of that understanding with that history you can begin to discuss really complicated and important things like what does the word race mean what does gender mean genetically how much is identity genetic versus environmental um you know what does it mean what does illness mean so the structure was a little inverted on one hand and and that's that's one piece but perhaps just as importantly this book is even more personal than temper um it begins very much it's very much in the in the story of my family it's very honest in Parts it was hard to write in Parts um were you worried about that in terms of what would your family think about the book and um I worry about it still um it's not over yet it's not over yet um but I wanted to maintain that sense of honesty um my family most of my families read it now it took some healing and some thinking to be able to get uh beyond the uh Beyond on the kind of the invasion of privacy but they were and are very generous about it some of the family members you write about are living in India they are and culturally I wonder is the um sort of acceptance and thinking around mental illness in a similar places here or is it it's very very different culturally I think um it's important to make that distinction and be respectful of it on one hand of course it's also more hidden away um more stigmatized but on the other hand because family structures are are more cohesive um and more important um still people live in multif family homes in parts of India um they also create a web um of support around uh people with mental illness or any illness for that matter it's a two-edged sword um or it's a two-way street as it were there's a there's a bit of both it struck me um an emperor of Mal all maladies um that the history of it there was a long period in which people basically understood nothing about cancer and then you have very rapid Discovery and understanding and experimentation and it seems a similar kind of trajectory with with the gene absolutely I mean and that's because the both of the books go into questions that we've sought to answer for a very long time in Emperor the question was very clear what is cancer and how are we going to treat it in the future in gene the question is who are we um how do we know how do we know the code that makes us um how do we know how to define ourselves with respect to that idea uh how do we know what units of likeness are um you know these are questions that we've grappled with for centuries and all of a sudden you know a monk in in Czechoslovakia or the Czech Republic breaks that um that egg as it were and finds um a whole series of Cosmos inside it and that's the story that launches the gene in both books you these are narrative non-fiction you sort of you you um weave the science into a story and neither one of course has an ending so how did you figure out okay here I'm going to just draw the line it's going to it's going to end here even though obviously the research is ongoing well I try to bring people up to the precipice of technology that is today but what's important is I mean I say this in Emperor 2 you know it's not the content that's uh the content will change we will know different things about cancer we'll know different things about genetics we'll know different things about ourselves and genes but many of the forms will remain the same and by that I mean you know the desire to change things in in our likeness the desire to alleviate illness through science and technology and most importantly the history of eugenics that's in the book I mean that's not going to go away that is permanent I mean that's an interesting difference too I think between the two books in that when you think about the future of cancer research it seems like it's all to the good you know it's we're all aiming to cure cancer with the future of genetic research there's a lot more ambiguity in there and things that frighten people with Eugenics with uh you know this whole idea of designer genes with was that difficult to I mean it was difficult territory to navigate because you know again the the ending wasn't you know this is not a this is not a villain meets Hero book um it is uh we meet ourselves book and obviously we meet the parts of ourselves that are heroic and the parts of ourselves which are prone to become despicable and we know that it's this is a book in which you can reflect um on what has happened in the past and what might happen in the future it's a harder book for that reason to write but in some ways it's an easier book to read because you have more familiarity with the questions you it's it's you you understand the questions more viscerally um you know what does it mean what would happen to me if I wanted to change myself or my identity through genetic means it's a question that becomes very very personal I don't want to get too much into the detail of the substance of the book um but just to get at one key question um which is what is a gene and at what point did we discover there is this thing the gene well the the funny story is we we discovered um the gene mendal um really discovered the idea that um hereditary information is is carried in discrete uh pieces he didn't know what it was he didn't have any idea what DNA all of this came later but he figured out that this information is discrete it's carried in packets like atoms uh it can't be broken down it doesn't blend it doesn't go away but it moves from one generation to the next in these in this kind of packet form eventually we scientists discovered that these these were actually carried in DNA for the most part um there's a genetic code and that code works by uh actualizing all that information but that was really mle's main Discovery it's interesting that you talk about packets and packets of code because I think when people are explaining the very basics of the internet they use those same exact ter well and you know I I use this analogy in the beginning of the book is that that that the gene the atom and the bite are the three most dangerous ideas of the of of our century and they share this whole this whole commonality which is that they are all describe indivisible packets of information and you can use that um to control things you can use the the idea of the atom to understand what matter looks like what matter is and thereby control matter in a way that you couldn't if you didn't know that the atom existed another term that's I think very fraught and that people don't necessarily know what the meaning of it is is epigenetics what is epigenetics and and why is it so controversial so it's controversial mainly because people don't know what the meaning of the term is and I think in some ways lots of scientists I think this is probably the most constructive thing they've said for now it's probably best to sort of let let the term go away for a little bit um rather than getting confused about it the the central idea is that epigenetics is an attempt to answer a question so it's best to go back to the question the question is the following the question is epigenesis which is how does an organism emerge out of an embryo so just State the problem very clearly you have from the same cell from the same genome you made in your body um a brain cell a neuron in your brain and you made a blood cell they don't look like each other and yet they have for the most part the same genome how did it how could the same genome give rise to two such different looking cells so the answer to that question is that even though the genome is the same the way the genome's used in one cell versus the other cell um is different it's a little bit like saying you know if you have a master score in an orchestra you know one person could play that or that Master score very fast and get one kind of music out of it you could take that same Orchestra and put it in another context take out some parts someone would play some part slowly other parts very long and you get a very different sounding piece that's what the genome does and so that allows us to State the question we now know how that happens it happens because there are um proteins they're called transcription factors they sort of conduct the the the master score they're the conductors of the genome and they're different there's a different conductor in your blood cell there a different conductor in your brain cell and they begin to recruit other things other marks other proteins and this Cascade is ultimately ultimately causes the difference between cells now people have assigned the word epigenetic to different parts of this puzzle but the question we trying to get us is that's the solution to the puzzle it's a question that we're trying to solve not words that we're trying to make up okay very different question but I think an equally challenging puzzle and a little bit more of a personal question which is I I have to know how do you do it because you personally you are an oncologist you teach at Columbia you have a clinical and research I have both yeah okay and you wrote this book so just explain how does that work well I just I I took some time out I focused on you know I see patients in a very limited cap class I see them one day a week um I took some time out and I concentrated on the book and I wrote mostly at night I came back and I wrote every night which time like how did how did that work I'm very curious my Prime hour begins at about 8:00 at night and goes into about 1: or 2 in the morning and that's when I get the most work done I have to tell you the way these books got written and this is goes into my own method is that I think of them as uh knitted stories or a web of stories and that really Rel lack is the burden it's not like I'm trying to handle an epic topic and wrestle it down to the ground but instead if I can just knit Story upon story individual upon individual piece upon piece together the book will get done and I keep telling myself over and over again that if I could just do that the rest of it would fall into place and it does I mean that's the power of Storytelling and is it going to be relaxing to go back to like full-time medicine for a while immensely relaxing the only person perhaps will be relaxed just to go back to being an oncologist yeah well I love doing it and I I I enjoy doing it and you know it's going to be a while before I write another book all right Sedar muker thank you so much for being here my [Music] pleasure for our second conversation we turn to the novelist Kate Atkinson her new book shrines of gity also out this month is set in London after the first world war in October 2018 she spoke to former book review editor Pamela Paul about spy novel transcription I'm thrilled to have in the studio here with me the brilliant novelist Kate Atkinson author of nine novels is it now 10 or 11 even don't know 11 novels approximately 11 novels including the great Jackson Brody series and her latest novel transcription Kate thanks so much for being here oh it's great to be here so tell us about transcription it's um set in two time frames 1940 1950 and sent us around a girl called Juliet Armstrong who in 1940 is 18 and she's smart but she's naive she's very art she's a clever girl who's slightly Out of Water she's just been bereaved so that has a big cast on her character we meet her again in 1950 when she's 28 and she's a producer at the BBC and she's a a different person still smart but now she is very cynical I think and she's been through the war and she's been through several experiences that occur in the book obviously that have shaped how she is now so in 1940 she's recruited reluctantly by MI5 she doesn't want to join because she knows that it will be clerical and it will be boring and she gives one of those interviews you know when you don't want a job so you give her very bad interview so she lies throughout because she is a pathological liar but in fact it counts against her because she's being interviewed by MI5 so a liar is a good things so she is recruited and she does do an incredibly tedious job and then she is uh moved on to do something might be more exciting this is your third novel in a row that's kind of taken place in this same sort of London World War II Blitz era period the first life after life then a God in Ruins why what was the attraction I know you in your earlier novels pre Jackson Brody you also had some I should have some more for me this is not a war novel it's just I was so intrigued by the the real story that the plot is Loosely based on that it had to be of necessity set during the war because it's about MI5 in in the days of the war but it's the phony War so it's a very different I don't know if you know that phrase in America but it's June 1940 when nothing appears to have happened so the British haven't been bombed they haven't bombed anywh France hasn't fallen Dunkirk hasn't happened so it's a time of much more paranoia and tension and people not sure what will happen so in fact the British government thought there was going to be a massive gas attack which is why you see everyone carrying their gas masks around and I I actually forgot to give anyone a gas mask in this book to me it wasn't about rationing and you know oh you know all of that Blitz Spirit it was about this particular story but it has to happen in the war so I'm very casual about the war actually I don't really go into any great detail it's not it's always sort of burbling in the background just in the background in many ways yeah but so if it's not a war novel what to you is it is it a spy novel it's just a novel to me I'm the person who has to refuse genre categorization so I think to me when I'm writing a novel it's a novel and then it's everyone else's job to say oh she's written a spy novel or she's written this or that apparently scence Life After Life is science fiction partly a science fiction novel surpris yeah having read the novel I didn't realize it it's true that when when I read Life After Life I thought it was such an original conceit just the whole structure of it with the lead character who is sort of constantly reborn occasionally taking with her bits of Knowledge from the previous life occasionally maybe not necessarily and then dies in a variety of of circumstances sort of making her way further along in her life I thought it was so original so I asked uh my husband who has read a lot more science fiction than I have have you heard of this before has this been done before because he's fond of sort of saying oh you know no that was done way back in the 1940s and everything but he hadn't so apparently it was a very original science fiction story I I've not read any science fiction I don't think so I wasn't being unconsciously influenced to me it was just to me time travel isn't Science Fiction it's just what a lot of writers do because they can and you can't do it in real life you know we're on for a one of a better word a journey and it only ends one place and that's not a good place but you know in the novel you can you can experiment with what how things would be in a different dimension I think it's more like quantum physics than science fiction not that I understand a word of quantum physics you mentioned earlier that this novel transcription takes place in two time periods but it does begin a bit later on I always forget that there's a third time period which is 1981 which bookends the whole the whole book but it's not you know it's not experimenting with time or Messing about with time as people are always saying to me you know you mess about with the time I mess about with time but this is it's it's just very structural there are two time periods oh three three time periods and you know there's nothing fancy about that well to go back to Life After Life just for a moment and that question of time and where did you get that idea of having this character constantly I for years I had wanted to write a a novel or even a story called parallel lives in which someone you know it's a bit like Wolf's Orlando but this woman is born as a woman the next time she's born as a man and then she's born as a tree and then she's born as a table whatever but that struck me as really not working very well but I've been waiting to write a war novel I've been waiting to be ready as a writer to write a war novel and somehow the two clicked that you know this would be about the blitz but it would also be about being reborn again and again but as as Ursula not as a table or a tree or whatever so it just kind of I remember being at lunch with my Publishers and they said um so can you give us an idea about the next book they're always very you know tiptoe about can give us an idea and I said well there's this girl and she's born and she dies and she's born and she dies and she's born and she dies and she's born and she dies in eitm and then she kills Hitler and they just look at me and I could see them thinking we can't sell [Laughter] not to try to categorize your novel yet again cuz it's it's it's not a World War II novel it's not necessarily just historical fiction but it is in certain ways a kind of spy story yeah it is and I didn't I mean I knew right from the beginning I was dealing with Espionage because I was dealing with MI5 files with the basis for for the book but I still didn't really think of it as an Espionage novel because I've never I've read a couple of lares but I haven't read spy novels so I wasn't working within those param but I knew what they would be like so I knew that there was lots of fun things to be had the dead letter drops and you know all of the mysterious Communications and but I wasn't really consciously again writing a spy novel I sometimes think I'm not really aware of what kind of book I'm writing until I finish sometimes I get to the end and I think oh that's why I had that title or yes now I am here at the place I thought I might get to but there's there's a lot of very unconscious creativity goes on well the the the idea of spy novels the idea of Juliet as a liar pathological liar as you described her the idea of Shifting identities for women at wellb to all kind of feel very related that this is a person Juliet who's in the process of kind of figuring out who she is and and moving in and out of various identities both literally when she becomes an actual spy for a period and then in other ways as well was that one of the attractions of writing about a spy well I think I will say that all novels are about identity one way or another and so in this case you're trying to rather than find her identity I think she's trying to mask her identity but then she's also surrounded by an entire cast of characters who are doing the same and I wanted to write about ambiguity and that's a difficult thing to write about but also that means shifting identity as well and I wanted to feel myself as well as the reader that when I got to the end I didn't know who anybody was and I didn't know what side anybody was on well there's a great line that you have one of your give to one of your characters in the novel that you a good spy is someone where you never know you know his side there on yes and I think that was that was quite a driving sentence because I wrote that quite early on and I thought it's important for me too to be in the in the fog because the fog is a metaphor that's used a lot because that way I'm not thinking aha so I'm going to make you do this and you do that and that's all going to be reveal because I wanted to get to the end and feel that nothing had been revealed that you think everything's been revealed and then you realize nothing's been revealed which could be very frustrating for a reader of course then it is revealed but I definitely do not want to do any plot spoilers here with this novel which is very twisty but what I thought was perhaps the most interesting thing is that there is a reveal at the end and yet it's very much open to the reader up to the reader to then think about well how did that work in the novel as I went along unsuspecting and also the morality of it because there's a certain morality involved in that you know in what what everyone turns out to be and it's a you know I think everyone in the book is just following their own path were you also inspired to kind of shed light and and give a backstory and and Central story to many of the characters who are often overlooked in what have become kind of familiar Stories the Spy novel The World War II novel and yet here rather than focus on the kind of head spy um the the Godfree Toby character we are focused on the transcriptionist behind the scenes and rather than focus on all of the men we're focusing on the women and and and another character who's often used or has been used in the past as a kind of source of an easy villain or a source for humor which is a gay character which you weave in here in a very for a period novel in it what feels like a very fresh way well you know being homosexual in 1940 in Britain is absolutely not something you're going to reveal but of course it makes you a good spy because you're very good at keeping secrets and jul yet herself is completely baffled by his attitude to her because she you know she's 18 and she's an English girl who's been at an English girl school and who has never come across this concept at all so that's extreme naivity and it's quite touching their relationship I think there in the end you know they have an understanding and and in 1950 we see a little bit more of how you can you can start to reveal perhaps your true nature but you're still on the wrong side of the law so it is about the novel in a way it's about truth because it's whether you know you you're going to be true to yourself or whether you have to maintain a different kind of Truth in order to exist I'm going to ask you a question both because I'm curious about the answer but also because I want to ask you about a specific review of this novel do you read reviews of your own books I end up reading reviews no matter how um horrified I am by the concept I always end up reading them and even someone will thrust a review and say this is a great review and we read it and then there's a butt in the middle and I'm sure every writer is the same it's only the butt that you remember right the caveat yeah everything else is just meaningless well I won't focus on the to be sure paragraph of this review but there was a review this week in the New Yorker art that I thought made some interesting points I'm not sure if you've read it yes I have and and I'm puzzled by that review and there's many points in that review and I wanted to say hang on well here's her opportunity well it caus me some kind of matron of English literature which I found quite insulting I think maton is such a a dubious word to apply to a woman I don't know if it has a different Concept in but as if I'm or or as if I'm even the Midwife giving you know shelter to these supposedly more avanguard writers I think I'm a very avanguard writer and I think I disguise it very well and I think it's very curious that he sees me as an English traditionalist because I'm not an English traditionalist and I'm wondering how he's come to that conclusion I've got lots of things to say about this but I leave it to you because you want to quote something at me well I I mean it also raised questions for me the review was by Jonathan D and I thought it was a I should make clear very favorable review that he yes indeed I'm just focusing on the butat exactly so that's your job I'll focus on the good points I'm not sure that I necessarily see the comparison um he you know contrast to you with Rachel kusk another cont very strange contrast to make but I think he sees us at two ends of the spectrum see and I don't see that at all because I I I agree with your point that I I think that you're very experimental in your work I mean I thought life after says I don't write beautiful sentences which I think is do write beautiful sentences I want you to read beautiful sentences later but I I'm going to actually read CU I mark up I marked up the copy with this is not a beautiful sentence but I love your descriptions which I find so clever and apt and original and this was describing a character in a cafe and you wrote like many in meres he had the shabby air of the postwar European diaspora there was a Rish look to him too as if he had been put together from leftovers he could have been sent from booking to play one of the dispossessed and it goes on it just keeps getting better so on that point I disagree um that's not a beautiful sentence but it's a great one or a great few sentences Jonathan Dean in this review in the New Yorker when he was comparing you with Rachel kusk he was saying that you still believe in plot um which I'm glad for and I'm curious if you if you start from plot or if you start from character or if there's a how important plot is to you when you're writing I start from structure and structure is different from plot I think structure is the bones that plot is the flesh too as it were because uh if I have structure then it's so much easier to move around in the book but plot yes plot and character which are strangely old-fashioned seen as strangely oldfashioned non- avanguard things which is I'm curious about because okay there are writers writing who are not fixated on plot and character but then that's true 100 years ago when you know or you know Gard Stein wasn't obsessed with plot and character so you know that's that that argument about experimentalism always annoys me slightly because there you know the novel in itself is experimental but I love plot and character and I know that every reader loves plot and character too and there's it's there is nothing wrong with plot and I I am curious that he sees that as a you know that and I also think Rachel has plot she's not plotless in her novels I think it's just a way of seeing more than anything for our listeners would you read a passage from transped to you this is a scene that takes place quite early on in Juliet's career as a spy when she's still a humble typist and perigrine Gibbons is her boss and she does have a thing for Perry it has to be said so when He suggests that they have an outing she's thinking that this is going to be a seduction which it isn't but they drove to the Hamilton Valley where they swapped the comforting warmth of the car's interior for a chilly River Bank it's still only April For Heaven's Sake she thought but Perry seemed insensible to weather although his layers of Tweed must be keeping him warmer than her own Ensemble a rather light coat thin sweater in her best skirt not to mention her good pair of stockings and smart shoes for she had been expecting to be viewing the landscape from the windows of the car not to find herself standing in the middle of it Countryside was more of a concept for Juliet than a reality otus he whispered spreading a tarpoon sheet on the riverbank sir had he said Otter Not A seduction then time rolled by very slowly very damply very coldly Juliet wondered if waiting for the otter was perhaps part of her training in some way surveillance perhaps patience she did need training and patience she knew that and it did feel strangely like an undercover Mission as they sat Breathless is still on the river bank waiting for a little family of otter to show themselves he glanced at her when the first one appeared and flashed her a delighted smile he really did have a nice smile his whole face changed and he became a man who looked capable of Happiness which was not the impression he normally gave the otter she realized were an offering to her in some way neither fish nor flesh she murmured and then felt embarrassed because she recall there was something bardy about ff's description of an otter although she wasn't quite sure what the quotation vulgar or otherwise was wasted on Perry who said well certainly not a fish the European otter lutra lutra is from the family mustell which includes Badges and weasels oh of course she said Juliet had never seen otter before and the kits and she knew that was the term for them because he told her were Charming sleek and playful but really they were just otter and if he was going to give her anything she' rather it was the picnic that she'd expected him to bring a scene in which the two characters are essentially doing nothing but lying the entire time she's also betrays her obsession with food I realize there's a great line in there too that Countryside was more of a concept than a reality for her she she's a town girl he's a naturalist well she's a town girl but she's also incredibly naive and ignorant at this point at least in terms of of sex completely she has no idea what it entails which is part of the reason she doesn't understand understand Perry's you know true nature but she's um she's read her mother's romantic novels and that's about the limit of it so for her it's this very Misty veiled act that's will take place one day and she's hoping it's going to take place with Perry what about that passage why did you choose to read that passage oh just because I think it does introduce her a little bit her her you know the fact that she does just automatically give a different answer to the reality and also she's masking her ignorance as well of course and he is completely oblivious to it all the time so they are they constantly not communicating with each other for the whole of the novel until the very end when finally they do communicate in a very touching way I think yeah I thought one of the sweetest kind of passages in the in the novel you recently mentioned on this book tour I think on the UK leg that your next book will be another Jackson broy novel this is true I finished it I've never been on tour with a book when I finished the next one it's very odd feeling I keep thinking did I read finish I really get confused about which book you're talking about because yes because this yes because my thoughts aren't even with the Jackson book I've just finished there with the next book I'll be writing so it is very confusing then people talk about books a couple of books ago and I can't remember characters names or anything so yeah your your head is always full of the book you're writing so the next book is the Jackson Brody coming out in 2019 yes this time next year well now that you said that there's another book after that can I ask what that one's about no that's a secret all right next time next time we get you in our studio Kate thank you so much for being here oh I thank you so much for asking me those were our interviews with sartha Mukerji from 2016 and Kate Atkinson from 2018 we'll have more from the book review podcast archive next week I'm Gilbert Cruz thank you for listening [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: cnkccCJR9v0 (https://youtu.be/cnkccCJR9v0) ===

i wrote this book because it was not there it seemed to me that there was an incredible vacuum in scholarship but also in the in the in the human history of this incredible elemental disease that was engulfing our lives that is engulfing our lives today engulfing our societies has had a deep influence on our culture and yet if if you know there are 5 000 books on cancer and yet there was not a single book which addressed uh the the history of this disease and its future to some extent in the way that i wanted it to be addressed well cbc1 has a particularly uh inflammatory situation in all of medicine but in cancer um in particular between patients who are desperate and will try anything right and doctors who with a sort of mixture of perhaps good and bad motives you know will also try anything they they want they want to help their patients they're looking for medical glory yeah a place in the history books and and this is a very dangerous combination because it leads to excesses of the kind you describe both with radical surgery and with chemotherapy right don't you think this is this is still in operation right now and how do we control it and be sure that we're not putting the public and patients through an unnecessary harmful procedures but cancer is a metaphorical disease in in a very deep way and we talked a little bit about it the word cancer comes from crab the reason is that hippocrates thought that cancer he thought that these tumors which were sitting under the skin with blood vessels around them reminded him of a crab of a crab crawling under the skin and this peculiar natural movement the reason i bring this up of course is that the metaphor of war very quickly permeated uh cancer one of the things that i discovered in this book was of course that the very first chemotherapies came from war gases and the reason was because uh during the bombings of the of barry for instance the barry harbor pathologists discovered that war gases were able to decimate the white blood cells and leave the rest of the body injured but not decimated and and therefore there was a the idea that if you could use that war gas in a slightly different manner you could kill malignant white blood cells and so forth that's just one example of how literally chemotherapy and candy cancer therapy grows out of metaphors of war now these metaphors of course then become very much part of the consciousness of the doctor and the patient it's not just one both doctors and patients want to fight the battle right and in that moment of fighting the war on cancer fighting battling your own body of course it's very hard to say well now let's stop let's retreat the front uh let's move backwards um and and therefore this this this dense idea of this dense metaphorical idea of fighting cancer still permeates our culture what is the mechanism by which we ever gain knowledge in medicine the the incredible irony in medicine of course is that it pretends to have certainty because every medical decision is about certainty it is about telling someone you know let's do this and that because i expect this or that to occur and yet of course is the discipline fundamentally rooted in uncertainty so every measure of progress furrows its way through the lives and bodies of patients that's that's that's that's the sad story about medicine and yet of course progress has to be made this is a lovely line from susan sontag who says um my purpose was not to inflame imagination but rather to calm it i felt if this book is successful it would demystify one of the fundamental mysteries of illness that happens to be a part of our times it it will succeed if it is able to demystify something that's mysterious and in that sense it will calm the imagination because it's only by understanding that our imagination can get calmed thank you you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: eRf_NPHQPJI (https://youtu.be/eRf_NPHQPJI) ===

[Applause] you're trying of go back to your question of are we ready to edit our genomes so and towards the end of the book you write as of this writing by the time this book is published I would not be surprised if the first successful targeted genome modification of a human embryo had been achieved the sentence says ends in a laboratory yeah but do you then continue the first quote post genomic human might be on his or her way to being bored so I want to ask by the way when he I had expected it in the first five orders it was achieved within the first five odd weeks of the publication of this book so just just to remind us of the pace of the technology and there's some debate whether there's a massive debate going on whether that first first attempt second attempt whether they were whether they were actually achieved what they had achieved or not in the scientific field there's a debate going on whether in fact they really added the the genes of the embryos that were there were if you're looking through the details there's something that don't make entire sense so there's that debate and that will continue for a while right but in terms of children being born with apparently a serious attempts to edit the genome not in the CRISPR cast nine very precisely but in mitochondrial diseases and mitochondrial replacement therapy so rather than very precisely going after a single gene even though it is a single gene if it's in containing the mitochondria why not replace the whole mitochondria and their least have been reports of to three children being born one of whom apparently meets these criteria extraordinary suffering an inheritable devastating childhood syndrome Lee disease which is fatal confidence in the gene equals the disease in that family there had been a history of children being born and dying and the mutation was understood and I guess the question I would also rewrite your question that you posed on your cards I hope you're filling out your cards passing into the outside aisles uh for the mother she I think said I am ready to edit my genome and I guess the other question is as the scientist at the fertility center and the biological PhDs were they ready should they have helped her so could you talk about what the are we ready the different ways are different acting well so the answer is as I said I personally was rather surprised that the National Academy this was not a you know the National Academy is not some kind of body that sits it's not a body that sits in space it's made of scientists and people who work in ethics people who work in people who physicians they took they brought in inputs from patients from these patient advocates so this was a highly considered decision in in the gene as I said before the report was released it's interesting that this triangle I talked about the triangle if I can remember what they were what my proposed trying who was I'll yeah it's interesting here it is this is it's as a triangle of considerations extraordinary suffering highly penetrant genotypes and justifiable intervention has thus far constrained our attempts to intervene on humans as we loosen the boundaries of this triangle by changing the standards for extraordinary suffering or justifiable interest into interventions for say we need new biological cultural and social precepts to determine which genetic interventions may be permitted or constrained and the circumstances in which these interventions become safe or permissible so this was this is from the book written about six to eight months before the National Academy report so the answer is I think that I think that people people are struggling through their individual decisions about these questions forum for for a mother of in a family where you were devastating medical disease where you have a extraordinary suffering nearly 100 percent penetrance there is no other justifiable interventions it's not like this child can have a surgical procedure or a medical procedure that will alleviate this child suffering clearly the decision this mother made was to go ahead and change the genetic information of her embryo the those questions i think are going to become even more amplified as we start pushing against the boundaries of what extraordinary suffering is an art the one thing i want to make very clear is that it is absolutely true and how the others have written but I've written about it myself is absolutely true that you know gene editing technologies CRISPR and cows nine kinds of technologies have pushed these questions to the frontier but you can achieve very similar ends by genetic selection anyway you could choose not to have a child that bears without any CRISPR without any gene editing technologies you could choose to sequence your embryos or potentially your sperm producing cells or your egg producing cells and not have certain kinds of genomes represented in your future generation so the one of the points that I was trying to make is that these technologies really are intersect or intersect with each other you can you should really think of them as parts of a whole just as you think of your child's capacity to master language in part as learning to read learning to get meaning and learning - right but ultimately what happens is the child masters language and then begins to use portions of that mastery in whatever direction he or she wants to do sometimes reading sometimes writing sometimes learning information going and finding new information etc but the technologies that allow us to make deliberately deliberate changes in the human genome exist even without CRISPR and Kaz 9 they will become amplified with gene editing technologies they will become even further amplified when we make synthetic DNA in that in the in those larger versions but they already exist you can choose to not have a child in your family if you were if you had cystic fibrosis in a family you could choose to not carry a child with a double mutation you might be I choose to have a child as a carrier but it used to do that one of the wonderful things about your book to me at least was the geographical suite it started with a wonderful chapter that the settings India you then moved to Europe with Mendel Nazi Germany the UK America with the the Box story this is really a sort of a global issue and I wonder if the answer to your question are we ready to edit our genomes has different answers in different countries and cultures so that in some countries as in the US the FDA has put very heavy restrictions on approving of the use of the these techniques for for embryo manipulation other countries I think will have very different perspectives new Ukraine Mexico for example probably China India China Korea are obviously of great interest and concern here in fact the part of the geographic reach of the book the last picture in the book of all the photographs is of a clinic in a fertility clinic initially unfortunates indicates just a a pediatric clinic in China where every single child is a male so that every single child being a male in this video at retinic occurs with no CRISPR with no deep learning it occurs with a crude but a crude eugenic desire to have male children so you you see how powerful even crude technologies how powerfully even crude technologies could twist and contort human demographics and so the question of who the we are and whether we changes from one place to the other and and and in the question that I raised in the book is and it's an important question which is to remind ourselves that privatized eugenics can achieve exactly the same ends as state-mandated eugenics and that's because the desire for the aspirational desire to perfect to have perfect children lies in the locus of the individual it does not lie there's some desires that lie in the locus of this state but this desire lies in the locus of the individual and how is ancient so it's not as if if we were to say to ourselves oh you know let's remove the the the the malignant state actor from all of this and and move the technology to the we that we would get over the problem the problem is in the we the problem lies in the we who are the we and what is the we allowed to do what is the we not allowed to do so the we you're absolutely right is a crucial point but it's just a reminder that by getting to the we we don't escape the question the quite the democratizing privatizing equalizing information does not solve the problem I used the word equalizing of course thoughtful because there is a there is of course an enormous possibility that only the rich will have access to the technologies that allowed them to sequence their unborn children where the poor will not what would happen in a world where genetic diseases or any diseases or diseases linked genes were progressively segregated to the poor but we're not segregated to the rich what if you know chromosomal diseases started only happening in the poor parts of a society there was a there was not just income inequality but genomic inequality across but these are real obviously real possibilities and so so the we becomes extraordinary important but the we doesn't solve the problem I know your lab is actually working on genetic modifications for use in therapy of cancer and leukemia there are some questions asking you to talk about of the cartoon modifications of t-cells so these are treatments for leukemia for example where lot of cases were made to help the body reject the cancer cells out they're not inherited to the next generation because there is this permissible in ways that don't give us the kind of pauses that germline modification yeah there's simply simpler so we we our laboratory because we work on leukemia we've defined some of the leukemic genes we made it very simple it's a very simple idea I can now just now disclose it because we now own the we own the patent on it so the the the idea is very simple but it has I think it has some important ethical and and other consequences the idea is that for a long time as you know we were as a society as a research community we were looking for tumor antigens antigens that were specific to a cancer cell were not present in normal cells so we could use those antigens as who's to target to recognize to kill tumors and in the leukemias that I study in myeloid leukemias which are very deadly they're very hard to find in fact there one would I have argued and there's an argument about this they probably don't even exist so virtually every antigen every sign every flag that we found in a leukemia cell is also present in normal stem cells so when you go to kill the Leukemia using immunological therapy you also killed the normal stem cells and this was a big crisis because you cannot deliver leukemia specific cancer specific therapy like you can for some other cancers so for a long time we just sat with this idea we didn't know what to do with it and it was scratched our heads about it how do you make a an immune cell go and kill the cancer but not kill the normal cell until of course CRISPR came along and we suddenly realized but what if you just took the normal cell and you deleted the antigen from the normal cell so you basically manufactured a tumor antigen you forced your body to create an antigen only in the tumor cell and you can do this because of some peculiarities of stem cell biology which wouldn't otherwise be true but you can do it quite generally just to give you an absurd example of this what if you were to direct an antigen response an immune response against your liver cancer but synthesize an artificial liver where that tumor that antigen was deleted so that it wouldn't be a target so we scratched our heads about this a little bit more and using CRISPR began to find out actually very doable it's very feasible to do this you can actually delete antigens at will the ethical questions there are kind of enormous which is who owns an antigen your body makes it when you delete it using CRISPR there particularly the particulars of technology those tricks of technology are truly synthetic by a truly synthetic I mean they they are not things that are found in nature you have to make them from scratch so in that case do does a biomedical researcher on it because he or she made it from scratch how do you deploy this in patients or the safety considerations etc etc so there's another even though it doesn't address some of the human genomic considerations there are a whole nest of questions there which we are now in the thick of but hopefully we'll get some guidance from about let me try and ask a follow-on question so the goal of the researcher lab is doing to ultimately get therapies that are fda-approved and can be used in patients to to treat perhaps even cure diseases that process of going from the discovery in your lab to an fda-approved product that can be marketed prescribed by physicians is a long difficult complicated process it's costly it takes time the patent clock is running while it's being developed to develop for a biotech company to develop that product is extremely promising product they need to make it a financially feasible proposition which means raising money for investors having the prospect of selling the therapy at a price that recoup some of the investment so there in terms of who owns it if the company doesn't have a clear field - saying we are going to be able to have an exclusive patent right to develop the disease and so but then where does that leave the person from who's sells the the the technique with these were discovered or if it's an actual patient centered therapy that each patients gets a different therapy or they're gonna be so it depends on what value are you asking Henrietta Lacks question I mean I there are two kinds of questions here so there's a Henrietta Lacks kind of question it's an important kind of questions so so so one thing that's interesting is that that there are technologies that are extraordinarily dependent on individual patient samples CRISPR doesn't happen to be one of them for the most part it doesn't happen to be one of them gene editing doesn't happen to be one of them there are others that are so and you're absolutely right in those arenas we've rediscovered perhaps a little too late but we discover that we've had been given any credit whatsoever to the original samples these the particular technologies we're talking about happen to happen to be relatively independent of all of this but but there is a whole arena and I would recommend obviously I'm sure everyone's read back a scutes book about how to understand giving back [Music] material rights to technologies that emerge from physical objects cells etc that emerge from individual patients bodies that's a question that really arises out of really question is that arises when you manipulate individual cells to produce things that are very particular to those those individual things antibodies for instance but this doesn't happen to use them so a question about the idea of extraordinary suffering so editing our genome to prevent or treat or we're a disease but it causes extraordinary suffering seems to me at one end of a spectrum and then there's editing to enhance positive traits that fall within a normal statistical range but trying to push more towards tight stream help us think through that yes so so that gets into that's really the question and the reason that's the question is that if you think about it prenatal genetic testing and selective implantation of embryos is a subtractive technique so it's the minus sign by minus sign I mean you can take information that's already present and you can decide not to implant certain embryos you can subtract away information that's already present but there's no plus sign there in other words you can't add to information that moment or sperm and egg I should say have brought into an embryo there's no way you can add information to it there's only you have what you have you can select some variants where you can you can subtract the one thing that gene editing and particularly Chris Perl or these techniques allow you to do is they allow you to add which with no amount of prenatal genetic testing and selective implantation will allow you to do they CRISPR or gene editing techniques allow you to actually potentially add information it's complicated it's not clear whether we can do it easily so that's the one crucial difference so gene editing that the real test of gene editing I think we'll ride on questions of enhancement and addition of information right now the number of genetic low side the number of variants where we definitively know that adding information is going to be therapeutic or beneficial are very few my suspicion is that we will find more my suspicion is that we will find more and more and my suspicion is that we will begin to tamper with them more and more I'll give you one example again going back to height I don't care very much about height by the way I'm just using this as an example of of what could and what the concerns are so if you look back at that curve that I just showed you it turns out that about 50 60 70 80 at hundred determinants that would have small range effects on human height that can be relatively comforting to some people like me because you say that the number of the variation is so great that it's a little unlike we can predict so I can tell you you know you can sequence here you can send your Charles genome 2 somewhere or the other they can sequence it and you'll get some information that's fit out and says this child will be this tall I would say that it's a little bit complicated to act on that information but it's also true what was surprisingly true which we didn't know before is that there are some alleles that we now know have disproportionate effects on height so with some small genetic variance they're rare in human populations there and this is going to be true for other diseases too other traits - they're rare in human population but some of them might govern one and a half centimeters two centimeters three centimeters of height how do we know this well we know in cases of severe trade-off so Marfan syndrome right you have a severe trade-off you get terrifying diseases but on the other hand not bad on the hand at the hand and on the other hand you also get three four centimeters of height so those are going to become really interesting important nodes because you could say to yourself now I can really change one thing two things three things and get my two centimeters three centimeters the big question is can you do that without compromising fundamental pieces of human physiology in Marfan's we know it's a terrible compromise no one would take that compromise but maybe there are the things there are genetic variants where they switch from one variant to another variant gets you two and a half centimeters the question is will we [Music] accept enhancing those will be accept enhancing them when all the other determinants are pushing in the other direction in other words someone has familial genetic propensity for short stature should we say to those people you know you have you have all this other genetic information where the chances are there's no way I can use genetic selection because of the number of complexities but I will but by using this a genetic variant in a very dominant that has a dominant influence I will now override these with with with with gene editing I think that's really interesting in complex universe people don't think about it because again you know we're still talking at we're still focused on the very base level of this conversation we're just ascending to deep learning we're just ascending to understanding how rare variants can influence features more deeply than we had previously anticipated though so that's what if you were if you leave this room that's one of the conversations you need to be having with yourself who is that it is not just gene editing I'm going I'm repeating the point that I just made it's not gene editing that's the real crux here it's what happens afterwards the layer of technology is just like a child learns it's the layer of technologies that interposes between gene editing and the next step finding rare gene variants using deep learning and other techniques computational techniques that will reveal rare variants of genes where you have disproportional influence on a feature using deep learning to isolate features of human being of human behavior traits biology that were otherwise imperceptible to our standard computational that next layer is is a make-or-break layer in drawing this evening to a close I want to help the audience see the future and I'd like to sleep - well you can't see it on PBS next year there's a Ken Burns documentary based on the gene of Francis Collins director of the NIH will play a prominent role along with dr. mukajee so it's something for us to look forward to this is part of a trilogy of damper of all maladies your biography of cancer is volume 1 this is volume 2 and you will be writing a volume 3 on immunology in the future so we should look for that you sure yeah encourage you to yeah so the way that are connected bernie day so you know it's the altered self the self and the non-self foreign self so that's how the three are connected so please join me in thanking dr. you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ezWYS63MbNs (https://youtu.be/ezWYS63MbNs) ===

>> Aidan Flax-Clark:
Hi, everybody. How's everyone doing? That isn't even moderate
enthusiasm. Come on. How's everyone doing? [ Applause & cheers ] All right. It's like a B-. My name is Aidan Flax-Clark. I'm the Director
of LIVE from NYPL. And I am thrilled even
with your B- enthusiasm. I'm thrilled you're all here. We're going to get to B+ by
the end of the night, right? [ Applause & cheers ] See? We're already there. And if you're watching online, thank you as well
for being with us. Siddhartha Mukherjee
is here tonight. He has just published
an updated edition of his seminal Pulitzer
Prize winning book, The Emperor of All Maladies. The book is described as a
humane biography of cancer. From its first documented
appearances thousands of years ago through the
epic race today to cure, control, and conquer it. And in addition to winning
the Pulitzer, the book, among many accolades, was named
a New York Times Top 100 Book of the Century. And it also landed on the
Times Magazine All-Time 100. So it's, like, pretty good. [ Laughter ] And believe it or
not, 15 years ago, two days after the
book was published, he was here in this
library to talk about it. So we just couldn't
be more honored that he's back again
15 years later to talk about this new edition. Which has been updated
with four new chapters. That illuminate new developments
in cancer detection, prevention, treatment, and understanding. And hopefully you saw it's
available for sale over here and everyone has already
purchased many copies. Yes? All right, I
don't believe you. But you're going to have more
time at the end of the talk. So if you didn't get it on the
way in, you'll have a chance to buy it on the way out. And he will be signing
copies of the book over here afterward as well. Siddhartha will be
speaking with Dhruv Khullar. Dhruv is an associate professor
of health policy and economics at Weill Cornell
Medical College. He is also a writer
for The New Yorker. His full bio along with
Siddhartha's is available in your printed program. Or if you're watching
online it's on the event listing
or the YouTube page. You received note
cards when you came in. These are for asking questions
at the end of the talk. My colleagues will come
by during the conversation and pick up your note cards. Please phrase your questions
in the form of questions. We really appreciate that. And if you're watching online
you can put your question in the chat and we'll be
glad to get it there as well. LIVE from NYPL is made possible
by the continuing generosity of Celeste Bartos, Mahnaz Ispahani Bartos,
and Adam Bartos. And, much more importantly,
by all of you here and all of you online. So thank you very
much for being here. Thank you for your support. And let's please give
it up for Dhruv Khullar and Siddhartha Mukherjee. [ Applause ] [ Applause ] >> Dhruv Khullar: All right. Well, I was in medical
school when The Emperor of All Maladies came out. And I don't think it's
an exaggeration to say that the book changed my life. It is a book that is staggering
in its scope and ambition. And, as a medical student, I
thought, "Wow, it's possible for a book to be like that. It's possible for a
career to be like that." That you could be a
doctor who sees patients. And a writer who communicates
to the public with such nuance and narrative and beauty. So I want to just start by
saying this is a real treat. Thank you for coming
to do this with me. Maybe we can start at the
beginning of the new version. And I'll have you read a
little bit of the opening to the 15th anniversary edition. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Great. Well, thank you for
having me, Dhruv. And we can begin at the
beginning as it were. It begins with what is
now called Part Seven. Now the amazing thing
about it is that, in adding so many more chapters,
maybe paper has become thinner. [ Laughter ] Because I had imagined that by
this time that having added four or five major new chapters. That this book would
become like, you know, something that you could kill
someone with, but it isn't. So I think the Chinese
are doing something right. [ Laughter ] I'm not supposed to say that. Anyway, it's called The
Emperor's New Journey, 2010 to 2025 and Beyond. And it begins with a poem, which
I think is an important poem. Which, sort of, in some
ways, colors the whole book. This is, of course,
from Emily Dickinson. I measure every Grief I meet
With narrow, probing, eyes. I wonder if It weighs like Mine. Or has an Easier size. I wonder if They bore it long. Or did it just begin. I could not tell
the Date of Mine. It feels so old a pain. And so this is the
introduction to the new edition. And I suppose it
answers the question, which is the first question. Which is, "Why write a book
again once it's been written?" And again, to quote, "I
wonder if They bore it long. Or did it just begin." So this is called The
Emperor's New Journey. That's the seventh part and therefore the
introduction to the new book. In the summer of 2008,
I walked into the office of a New York editor with
a large brown paper bag. That's Nan Graham. Say hello, Nan [laughs]. In it were 600 pages of my book,
The Emperor of All Maladies. My mother had looked at the brick thick black-bound
pages as I left my house. And called it the
telephone directory of hell. I sat in the editor's
waiting room, high above Sixth
Avenue, looking outside. It was one of those
magical New York afternoons when the balminess of the
air becomes intoxicating. And crowds had gathered
on the streets. But I was a trainee
in oncology in Boston and all I could see
was a landscape of future grief and anxiety. The woman laughing breezily by the bakery might be
diagnosed with cancer. Ovarian? Breast? In a few years. I imagined a man smoking a
cigarette with evident pleasure by the fountain in
a hospital gown as he went for a lung CT scan. The lenses with which I saw the
world had forever been changed. In the 15 years since the
publication of The Emperor of All Maladies, the
collective lenses through which we see cancer
have also forever been changed. New horizons have emerged in
the early detection of cancer. While innovations in treatment
built on extraordinary work in immunology and cell therapy. Have widened the tantalizing
world of personalized medicine. Some cancers considered
untreatable only a decade ago have been eradicated
in individual patients. And yet, the disease continues
to surprise and frustrate us. There is, of course,
no one cancer and there will be no one cure. And with each apparent step
forward, the vast tangle of cancer's complexity comes
more vividly into view. The complete eradication
of cancer through prevention
remains a fantasy. We hunt for new classes
of carcinogens. Yet the definition of
carcinogens does not on its own explain why
a tumor will develop in one person and not another. Technologies purporting
the early detection of cancer sprout daily. But are yet to demonstrate
that patients diagnosed with these technologies
will have improved outcomes. And even with new therapies,
many patients with cancer remain and become resistant
to treatment. Meanwhile, the cost of
cancer treatment skyrockets, presenting an insurmountable
barrier to the equitable
distribution of medical care. Through all this, cancer
remains a meme for everything that is malignant in
our society and culture. When I began writing The
Emperor of All Maladies, I had in mind a kind of
journal that would allow me to make sense of
the world of cancer. The world of cancer
that I had experienced as a young physician
in medical oncology. As I wrote, the book
became something far greater than I first imagined. It became a biography that aimed to illuminate humanity's
engagement with this terrifying and beguiling ailment. I would tell the story through
the intersection of lives and ideas, scientific theory and medical practice,
culture and belief. Traced to the sweep of history,
as well as within the intimacy of a single patient's
diagnosis and treatment. And so, in a sense, the chapters that follow constitute
an entirely new emperor. In a decade and a half, there
has been so much more learning that I realized that only a
new book could capture the horizons ahead. The new chapters are organized
simply along the three pillars of our strategy against cancer. Prevention, screening
and treatment. Capped with a chapter on a
new vision for the future. New vistas have opened
yet more new vistas for exploration,
science and medicine. And for the evolving
cultural metaphors that cancer still evokes. Prevention, cancer,
treatment and the future. I welcome you to a new book. [ Applause ] >> Dhruv Khullar:
Thank you for that. So I want to start by
rewinding back even further than the start of the new book. Which is how did the
idea first come to you? You know, when did
it first come to you? Why did it come to you? Why frame this book
as a biography? You know, not as a
scientist, not a biography of a place, but of a disease. Take us back to, I
don't know, 2005, 2008, whenever you started
thinking about this book. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Well, the new book began because no such book existed. And it was really my
own attempt to try to understand the disease. The book begins with
a very simple anecdote of a patient who comes to me. And says, "Why am I
being treated this way, in this manner, through
this protocol?" And I began to realize that this
is not a question of one person. This is a very universal
question, a question that we're
all trying to understand. How did we get here? How did cancer become
what it is today? And what will happen
in the future? And the idea of writing
the book began that way. And then -- I title
my books very late in the process of titling books. When I looked back and started
reading what was then a journal, I realized that there was a
biographical quality to it. Now, people often
say, "Well, you know, isn't this an anthropomorphic
variant of." But literally biographies
have existed of characters that are much more fictional than the role cancer
occupies in our lives. And therefore, this
is how the book began. The book began because
I was interested in very fundamental questions. Where are we going? How do we get here? What happens next? But I was also interested
in the cultural metaphors. You know, Sontag's Illness as Metaphor was a very
influential book for me and plays a very large
role in the first book. And, you know, the
writing of Oliver Sacks, the writing of Atul Gawande. And so many others had played
a very influential role in my life. And yet, I felt as if I was
trying to write something that was simultaneously
more intimate, but had the sweep
of history in it. I was not trying to write an
Oliver Sacksian case history. I was not trying to write
-- there were so many nots. I was not trying to write
a Sontagian cri de coeur about what illness meant. I was trying to write none
of them, but all of them. And I was trying to
focus on one disease. The one that, in some ways,
defines contemporary life. And so that's how
the book came about. >> Dhruv Khullar:
Were you surprised by the tremendous reception
that the book received? I mean, a lot of
doctors write books, not all of them win
the Pulitzer Prize and become a Ken
Burns documentary. I read somewhere that
you called your parents and told them you won the
Pulitzer and they said, "Oh cool, what's that?" And so, how did your life change
after the book received the type of reception that it did? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Well, my life changed forever. I mean, if you're fortunate to
get critical acclaim of this. And the book became a kind
of, again, like cancer, a kind of meme that
I hadn't expected. You know, routinely, I see
variations of words and phrases from the book appropriately
acknowledged, lifted. And so my life changed forever. In some ways, there
were things about it that I didn't want to become. I didn't want to become sort of
the cancer expert of the world. I wanted to retain the curiosity
and the intimacy that it means to be a physician and a patient. >> Dhruv Khullar: But did
you always see yourself as kind of a literary doctor? Like, would this
have been your path, regardless of the
success of the book? Or would you have gone
in a different direction? Become more of a -- just publishing in academic
journals, let's say. I know you're now an
entrepreneur as well. But I'm just trying
to get a sense of what does Sid
Mukherjee look like today, if not for the success
of this book? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Well, obviously, I look like a different person. I am a different person. My public life is different. You know, the way I intersect
the world is different. So, yes, the book
swerved my life. In a way, kind of, a river
in spate swerves your life. And the book swerved
my life, of course, in some very positive ways. But also, as I said, some
ways that were unexpected and not even desirable. Just to give you one
example, ultimately, I had to hide my email
because my inbox. Even today -- >> Dhruv Khullar:
I'm sorry about that. There was, like, 25
emails I sent you that day. [ Laughter ] >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: But it's not the
complimentary emails. The ones that bring real
grief are the ones that are, "My son has medulloblastoma. I know you've never
seen me in my life. I know you don't know my son. But if you knew him, if you
knew Joe, he's 11 months old. He's a playful character. He loves rhymes. Can you please help?" And those break your
heart because you cannot. For so many reasons, you cannot. But they break your heart
in so many different ways because this was not the
person I wanted to become. I didn't want to
become the person who can't write back emails
because they break your heart. And that's what I became. As you know, the beautiful
book by John Green, The Fault in Our Stars,
has a character in it who writes a book called
The Imperial Malady. I'm acknowledged in
the book, so it's fine. [ Laughter ] But that character,
the young protagonist, the young woman with cancer. Goes to meet this guy
who lives in Holland or someplace, I don't remember. And it turns out
to be sort of -- he turns out to have lost heart. And in some ways, I still wonder to what extent this book sort
of, like a river in full spate, just deviated my life. Out of what would have
been, I would have imagined, a life of a thoughtful,
compassionate doctor. Who is able to answer
his emails every day. >> Dhruv Khullar: Yeah. So part of the answer to
this question is contained in the book, so you'll
have to buy it if you want the full answer. But let me just preview
some of it. So in the last 15 years since
the first edition came out, what has surprised you most
about the changes in oncology or health care more generally? What are the things that
you would not have predicted in 2010, 2011, and
what are the things that you maybe did predict? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, I think the most
illuminating chapters -- well, all the three
chapters contain dramatic new information. But I'll just give
you sort of headliners from all the four chapters. In cancer prevention,
the question patients or patients' families, loved
ones, are asking themselves. Is, "Why did I get cancer?" And that question is a question
that people ask themselves who have not exposed
themselves to what we know as classical cancer-causing
agents, carcinogens. They're not smokers. They've, you know, drunk
their goji berry juice for a full decade and
gone to every yoga retreat that they could have gone to. They've been good
cancer do-bees. And yet, here they are
in a blue hospital gown, getting a CAT scan
for lung cancer. And so the question, which
was an embarrassing question for the community, for our
community of physicians. Was, "What are we missing?" Are we missing something that is
in the universe of carcinogens? Is there dark matter in carcinogenesis
that we're missing? And this became a progressively
embarrassing question. What I don't write about in
the book, but which is real. Is that if you really
think about it, we had not found a
preventable chemical carcinogen of great impact on human
communities since the 1970s. And that was cigarette smoke. You know, you could say obesity
is maybe one big example. But, in some ways, you could
say this is a bizarre situation. You know, you're spending
hundreds of millions of dollars, and certainly we found
many new carcinogens. But none which had the kind
of public health impact. So the headline of
the first chapter is, we are actually now
finding new ones. But they're a form of carcinogen that we had never
expected to find. They are truly the dark
matter of carcinogenesis. I'll leave you with
that thought. The second one, so the
second area we talked about, the second chapter is on
early detection and screening. And even today, there was
an article in the Times about early detection
and screening. And how cancer rates
are going up, and some say they're going down. And the answer is that
there is a fundamental, inbuilt, mathematical reason. That early detection and screening has not worked the
way we had intended it to work. And to find out, you'll have
to read the second chapter. The third has to
do with treatment. The big missing piece there was
the immune system and the role of immunology and
inflammation in cancer. And that leads on to the
fourth, which is a new direction in which we can integrate
all of this to find a new pathway forward. >> Dhruv Khullar: So let
me push you a little bit. When I was reading the end
of the book, I was delighted to see my name in the book and
that was a real thrill for me. And then I realized it was
mostly just about my prostate and that was less exciting. So the story is that I
had written an article about getting a full body
MRI, which are now being kind of aggressively marketed. And the MRI picked up a
small lesion in my prostate. Those are graded on a
scale from one to five. It was a three, of course, so
they have no idea what it was. And it led to additional testing
and follow-up MRIs and so on. So I guess reading the
chapter on screening, you could come away
with the impression that very little works
in cancer screening. Even the traditional things
that we think might work, like colonoscopies
and mammograms. And now there are
these new modalities, like full body MRIs
or liquid biopsies. So maybe just spend
a moment talking about the difficulty
of cancer screening. Why it is the case that even
today medicine has so little to offer people who
want to be proactive about getting screened. And what you make of
these newer modalities that are now on the horizon. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Yeah, so the problem with cancer screening is
a mathematical problem. It is not a cancer problem, it
is not a biological problem, it's a mathematical problem. And it's a simple
mathematical problem. I describe it in the book. There are many mathematical
problems, but there's one fundamental one. And the one fundamental
one is -- this is a thought exercise
that I'll throw out to you. And this is in the book, so you'll read about
it in the book. But imagine there are twins, in the book I call
them Hope and Prudence. Who get diagnosed with --
or who don't get diagnosed. Who get breast cancer at
the same moment of time, at the same second
as the clock ticks. One of them, Hope,
decides that she is going to be very proactive
about her health. Goes through her scans,
and a mammogram finds that she has breast cancer. And, you know, surgeons
operate on it, they give her chemotherapy,
et cetera. And she dies five years later after her cancer
has been detected. Prudence says, you know,
"I'm not doing any of this. I'm going to go to Mexico,
have wheatgrass juice. And I'm not participating in all of this nonsense,
scanning, et cetera." And she is not diagnosed until her breast cancer
becomes either visible or she starts having symptoms. And that's much later. And she gets diagnosed
at that point of time. And then Hope and Prudence are
put into the same hospital bed, and they unfortunately
die in the same moment of time as the clock ticks. So now ask yourself
the question, the word survival
comes up, right? So how many years
did Hope survive? And the answer is, well,
she survived five years. She had breast cancer,
and then she was detected, treated, et cetera. She survives five years. How many years did
Prudence survive? She survives one year,
because she gets detected at one year, and then she dies. But of course, that
couldn't be true. Because both of them
acquired their breast cancer at the same moment of time. And they died at the
same moment of time. So Hope's screening did
nothing to her, really. Both of them had the exact
same moment of death. So the only way that you can
really judge a cancer screening test is by using
mortality, not survival. Survival is easy to judge, because you can put
people on a trial. And you can have
two control groups and have one group saying, you
know, they went through the test and they survived five years. The other one didn't go through
the test and survived one year, so therefore the test works. >> Dhruv Khullar: Yeah. So I guess that makes
sense to me. But what I don't understand --
so maybe the mental model a lot of people have is incorrect. And you can correct
it if that's the case. But there's a few cells, and
they have some mutations. And they develop
into a small tumor. And it becomes a
stage one cancer. And over time it gets bigger. And it spreads to lymph nodes. And it spreads distantly. And we call that stage
two, three, four, right? And the idea is that if you were
to screen, you could catch it at stage one or stage two. And you could intervene such that Hope would
actually have lived longer than Prudence in this example. And why is that so hard? Why can't we catch it? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
And that's the problem. I'll offer some solutions
as well. This is not as dire as
one can make it out to be. The mistake people make, and
actually it's interesting. It's a mistake that
Halsted made, is this idea that you just said. So there's a stage one
cancer, it then spreads through the lymph nodes, it
then moves into the next organ. That is not the biology
of cancer. The biology of cancer is that
some stage one tumors begin and they immediately metastasize or they immediately have
thrown out metastases. Halsted called this
the centrifugal theory, as you remember. And this is the basis for years
and years of radical surgery. He thought the more you cut
away, you'll cut away, you know, this centrifugally spreading --
like an inkblot spreading thing. You cut away the
edges of the inkblot, you've gotten rid of the tumor. That's not how cancer works. And it's very hard to
explain that to patients. The biology of the
tumor, its genetics, its relationship
with its environment. Its relationship with the rest
of your body is what determines that the quote, unquote,
"stage one tumor" that you've detected
by early detection. May have already spread way
outside a woman's breast if you're doing mammography
or colon if you're doing colonoscopy. Now, that's not completely true. There is a systematic spread,
but it's unpredictable. So therefore, the number of
people where you can find that systematic spread
and control it. It really depends on the
biology of the tumor. And it turns out that cervical
cancer is a good example. Cervical cancer tends to
spread in the centrifugal way. That's why pap smears work and
that's why you can cut it out. Colonoscopies work because
you can detect a pre-cancerous lesion before it has started
spreading into other places. Other tumors, you can't do that. So you can say, "Well,
oh my God, why go through all
this trouble?" Well, there's a way out of
this and it's an important way. We're beginning to explore it and I think we will
ultimately succeed. And it was taught to us by a
17th century mathematician. I keep saying screening
is a mathematical problem. And this was a very unusual
17th century mathematician named Thomas Bayes. And he wrote three papers of which one paper may be
the most important paper in statistics. And may even be the most
important paper in medicine. And Bayes made a
very simple argument. Bayes said, "Look, if you look
for a needle in a haystack, you'll find mostly hay and
not really many needles. If you put more needles
in the haystack, you'll start to find needles. If you put even further
needles in the haystack, you'll ultimately find
needles more often." >> Dhruv Khullar: I feel
like I could have come up with that [laughs]. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: I know. But it's astonishing that you --
well, one can come up with that. He actually came up with an
actual theorem that has to do with mathematics and you
can predict exactly what the number is. Anyway. But the bottom line, which is interesting
and very important. Is that with the tools of
risk assessment and especially with genetics, you can
do a Bayesian trial. And a Bayesian trial is very
different from a normal trial. A Bayesian trial is you
move the prior probability of someone being detected and
having a true positive cancer. A cancer that's lethal,
should be caught early. You move it now towards a
much more positive direction. Positive in the sense that you'll find more
needles rather than more hay. And you can now do that
with breast cancer. So that's why we screen
people with BRCA1 mutations. And we find cancers
in those patients. The trials are ongoing, but I suspect those are
life-saving decisions. So screening the
entire population. Screening in a 20-year-old
or in Dhruv Khullar, a scale three detected blip in
an MRI is unlikely to be cancer. In a 70-year-old person whose
father died of prostate cancer and whose uncle also had another
genetically related cancer. The chances that same lesion
is cancer is very likely to be true. So you have to have
a Bayesian approach. And in fact, I would say the
Bayesian approach is an approach to life. It's a way of living your life. It's a way of assessing risk. >> Dhruv Khullar: So
when the 30th edition of Emperor is released in 2040,
what will we be talking about? What will the next 15
years have brought us that, when I get to interview
you again at that time, we'll be going through then? How will cancers change? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well,
I think that the role of -- we talk a little bit about this. For so long, the theory of
cancer was dominated by cancer as a series of malignant
cells in a vacuum. That we forgot that these
cells actually interact with their environment. They live in an immune
environment. They bring out blood
vessels from the body. They live in an environment which is crucial
to their growth. And that's why some tumors
never grow while others grow. So we'll be talking about
kind of a more holistic view of what cancer is as a
disease, of that physiology. And hopefully we'll be
talking about medicines that either prevent, treat, or
detect based on that physiology. I think that's what
we'll be talking about. And we'll be talking about it, I
don't think just metaphorically, although the metaphors
are important. We'll be talking about it in
terms of actual medicines, some of which already
existing in the world. That really address this
immunological aspect, the micro-environmental aspect,
the metabolic aspects of cancer. Things that we knew about
but sort of ignored. >> Dhruv Khullar: You know, not
a lot of people who are doctors and academics and
successful writers end up becoming entrepreneurs as
well and starting businesses. What is the work that
you're doing trying to find new medicines using
artificial intelligence? And how does that play into
what we're talking about now? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well, so as you know I've
been very involved in finding new medicines. This is not my first time that
I've gone out of the clinic into finding new medicines. We were the first
group actually ever to use CRISPR for
cancer treatment. And so when AI came along, I
began to really dream about, or imagine, a mechanism of finding new medicines
for cancer using AI. I'm not talking about
AI to look at human data across populations, stuff that
maybe people in your group do or maybe you do yourself. Which is also a very
good use of the tool. What we do at Manas, which
is a company I co-founded with Reid Hoffman
and Ujjwal Singh. What we try to do at Manas is to
reimagine the molecular world. So just to take one step back, the growth of a cancer is
driven by a mutated gene. Which is driving the growth,
altering the metabolism, changing the way a
cell is behaving. It's no longer a normal
cell, it's a malignant cell. What we do at Manas is --
I'll make you close your eyes for a second, and think
about these mutant genes, these driving proliferators. And what we do at
Manas, basically, is we use AI in many ways. But one way is to take
this mutant protein, the one that's driving
the growth. And break it up, as it were,
into its atomic components. So now you've got this -- you can imagine this room
as the mutant protein, and we're trying to block it. We're going to put
some huge balloon, as it were, to block this room. But it has to have a particular
shape and a particular size. And what we do is we try to reimagine this room
at an atomic scale. Ascribing every dot. Imagine now this room pixelated, and devolved into
its properties. So no longer do we care about whether there is
an arch there or not. But rather we care about
the properties of that arch. And we distill, we make the
machine learn the properties so that it can then
find mechanisms to find new medicines. So we're using AI in
a very particular way. You know, we've had
various names for it. But the way I like to describe
it is, it's a molecular oracle. We're trying to create
a molecular oracle. And then ask the
molecular oracle questions that you would ask an oracle. Which is, now that you've
distilled the properties and learned the properties. That's what the AI piece is. You've learned the
properties of something. In an oracular way, tell
me that, how you're going to create a medicine against it. And the medicines that
we're hoping to get, we're actually now finding. Whether they work or not in
humans is a long ways away. But the kinds of
chemicals that we're hoping to find is chemical
matter that's never been discovered before. Is new chemical matter. Because the old chemical
matter that we've discovered against cancer, you know,
works in small instances. But doesn't work often enough. >> Dhruv Khullar: So
someone who's been working to develop new medicines
before the advent of these new AI tools, how big
of a step-change advance is it? I mean, should we
expect in five, 10, 15 years that we have
many more oncology drugs? Or is it the case that
it's not quite like that? That you still have
these bottlenecks of human biology being complex
and clinical trials and so on? So, you know, how do you square
that with what we've experienced in the past to the future? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well,
so my general impression is that AI will be an
enormous accelerant. It has generally been
-- again, remember, we're not creating chatbots. We're working in a
different model of AI. We're working with a
foundation model of AI. We're creating an oracle. Now, oracles in AI, like
all oracles, depend on data. You have to train them. They have to learn. And one of the bottlenecks
is data in this space. Now, thankfully, about
15 to 20 years ago, a group of scientists led
by a woman in England. Made it compulsory that
if you solve the structure of a protein. If you figured out, as I
said, in some ways, again, to use this analogy, the
structure of this room. Your paper could only be
published if you deposited that structure in
a public database. And think about just
that advance. And all the journals agreed
that would be the case. So there is a massive public
database where enormous amounts of protein structure is stored. And so what we do is, one of
our jobs is to train the oracle to learn from that database. And the real question is, even with that massive public
database, is there enough data? I suspect there is, but
I can't tell for sure. We'll know soon, actually. We'll know soon, at least
for this atomic model. We'll know whether this is going
to be a work in progress or not. >> Dhruv Khullar: So I know
you're not training chatbots, you're training an oracle. But how far are we from a chatbot writing The
Emperor of All Maladies? Like, is that conceivable
in five or 10 years? The job of fantastic
nonfiction writers, actually chatbots could
do that reasonably well? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So the
other day I did an experiment. In which I said, write about
-- something or the other, I don't remember what I
was saying, in the style of Siddhartha Mukherjee. And I was horrified. >> Dhruv Khullar: Because
it was so good or so bad? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
It was terrible. It was terrible, and
I was like, oh my God, if I ever even come close
to writing like this. I mean, I must sound like
some crazy person on the page. So I think I'm safe for now. [ Laughter ] But I'm not sure. Maybe they'll figure out
some clever algorithm. But it was so horrifyingly
bad that I felt kind of simultaneously relieved
and a little embarrassed. >> Dhruv Khullar: SidGPT. I have one more question. I think we are going to move
on to audience questions. So if you have any and
you want to jot them down and pass them along. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: We're going to read
the last few pages. >> Dhruv Khullar: Read one more
at the end of the book here. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So
this is the last two pages of the book. I read the first two
pages of the new book, and then now the last two pages. So the first book,
many of you remember, ended with my patient Germaine. I think of my patient
Germaine often. I remember her sitting
with such perfect poise on the evening before she died. I recall her grace and dignity
and the enormity of her courage. I think of her will and
wit and imagination, and I also think
of her sly humor. "I know you're writing a
journal about your fellowship. I want to say good
luck," she told me. And then she winked. This voluminous book was once
no more than an untidy sheaf of notes that I carried. And she had once seen the
papers fall out of my backpack. Her voice was soft and flecked
with infinite kindness even as she strained to breathe. I felt moved to tears. Here was a woman
submerged in pain and fear, drenched in grief. And yet she had found time to
think about the scribblings of a lowly fellow
in scrubs leaning over her with a stethoscope. A group of nurses
entered the room to wheel the bed
next to her away. The bed was folded and moved
to the corridor outside. The patient had passed. "Whatever you write," she
said, "make me look fabulous. Fabulous, okay? I don't have much time." There was momentary
silence in the room. And the soft screech of
a bed being wheeled away. "What is time?" A student of a Zen monk asked
his master month after month. There was no reply,
just silence. A few months later, the
monk replied irritably, "Time is a head of cabbage." There are many variations
of this koan. But the point, perhaps, is
that time is inscrutable. It lies beyond human
comprehension, and asking questions
about time doesn't make it more understandable. The question is absurd,
and so is its answer. The time I spent with
Germaine was one evening. Or was it a few months,
or is it a lifetime? Time was a hospital bed
that would be folded and stowed away in some corner. Perhaps it was an unforgettable
evening in a room spent talking about a farm in her
hometown in Alabama. Or perhaps a lifetime
thinking about a patient that I still cannot forget. With a shape-shifting,
inscrutable illness that I'm still trying
to understand. Time is a head of cabbage. I've spent my life in
search of comprehension, but it still eludes me. But at least in that searching, I discovered a cosmos
of realities. A few months after
Emperor was published, I received a handwritten letter. It was from Germaine's brother. Even though I changed her name
and disguised her identity, he had recognized
her in my book. "She would have loved, admired, and understood your
book," he wrote. Understood. A strange word. A word that signals a desire to
know, not just about patients, scientists, and doctors. But about history, about
the birth and growth and future of a discipline. That evening, somehow,
Germaine had intuited that Emperor would be much
more than a personal journal. She understood what I
wanted to understand. This was the best praise I've
ever received about this book. Thank you. [ Applause ] >> Dhruv Khullar: Now you
know why AI can't emulate Sid Mukherjee. We have a couple questions here. And I'm guessing that people
are more accustomed to typing than writing longhand now, because it's very
difficult to parse this. But can you talk
about how you write? What is your daily process
and what tools do you use? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: So I
write in a very bizarre way. That's been written
about humorously. I write in bed. Almost exclusively. I find it very comforting. And when I had a new office,
I put a bed in my office. I suspect that that would
not be allowed today. [ Laughter ] But then I quickly removed it. But how do I write? I write in small bursts. I write when I have a thought. I was just reading this piece on Oliver Sacks today
in the New Yorker. A lovely piece. And he wrote compulsively, and
he kept journals after journals. And he wrote and he wrote. And he would sit in a
taxi and write, et cetera. I write anti-compulsively. And that means that I think
about what I'm going to write, but I don't put a
single word down. And I think for a long
time, and I keep thinking. And then, when I'm
hopefully in bed, I can write a full
chapter in one go. And I write from
beginning to end. I edit, or Nan really
helps me edit later. But I write from the first
word to the last word. Because in some ways
I've been thinking about the process on the way. >> Dhruv Khullar:
What concerns you most about our current Department
of Health and Human Services? [ Laughter ] >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Where does one start? Look, you know -- [ Laughter ] -- let me talk a little
bit about the rhetoric of anti-science, which is
probably what's driving. I don't have a personal
animosity against any particular
person in the Department of Health and Human Services. Except that there's one person
that I'd love to vaccinate. [ Laughter ] But that said, you know, I think that the concerns
are very broad. The concerns are
that since the 1950s, the United States has led
the world in innovation. And this is innovation
in every way. Cultural innovation,
scientific innovation, technological innovation. This is the one thing
we're actually good at. We're terrible at many things. But this is the one thing that
has always been the centerpiece of how we have come
to change the world. And I think that the
anti-science rhetoric and the anti-culture rhetoric. The anti-reading rhetoric,
and the fake news rhetoric. Is one way that we will
destroy this amazing lead. So, you know, we can
talk about particulars and why the HHS has
so many problems. But I want to talk
about the generalities that we're destroying. We're actively seeing
the dismantling of a particular kind
of civilization. And the fact that we're actively
watching it and doing nothing about it should be
deeply embarrassing to us. >> Dhruv Khullar: Does it
change the way you think about communicating? You know, in an anti-elite,
anti-expertise, anti-science type
of environment. When so many people are
skeptical and distrustful of institutions and academics
and doctors and so on. How should people in
positions of influence and power communicate
about these issues? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Well, I mean, to some extent, I think doctors and physicians and scientists painted
themselves into a corner by becoming experts
without humility. It's very easy to dismantle an
expert because an expert belongs to a class of the elite. And, even though it's being
governed by the elite, ironically, this is a
very anti-elitist moment. So I think scientists,
physicians, and in their rhetoric,
in the use of language, in the use of power, really
painted ourselves into a corner. Because we assume the role
of the language of the elite without assuming the
humility that comes with being that elite. I mean, you don't
need me to tell you that we don't know half
a thing about cancer. Otherwise, we'd be
treating and curing it with much more vigor
than we are today. So I think the answer to your
question is for ourselves to go back and describe
the process by which we come
to understanding. Which is a messy,
complex, often a process which does not involve the
kind of scientific heroism. Which is so easy to
disband, you know? The scientific hero begs
the scientific antihero. The pro-vaccinator begs
the anti-vaccinator. Because the anti-vaccinator
says, "Well, wait a second, how did you get to
be the boss of me?" So the answer to the question of how we communicate
during this time is to climb down from the various
towers that we occupy. And speak to people
in the language that we ourselves
speak with each other. Which is a language that
involves not knowing, language that involves humility. But also language that involves
an attempt to understand. You know, to be honest, we actually don't
know all the myriad -- although it was an incredible
savior of human lives. We don't know all
the myriad effects that the COVID vaccine
has had on human beings. Admit it. It's okay. You know, civilization
will not crumble if you or I as physicians say that
we save millions of lives. And yet we don't know
some fundamental things about immunology in vaccination. It's okay. And it's precisely this kind
of oppositional, technocratic, befuddling way of speaking. And the lack of communication
that's led to this moment. And we have to undo it. >> Dhruv Khullar: Can
cancer ever be fully cured or just managed? Is curing it a pipe dream? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: It
depends on the kind of cancer. I think we're curing lots,
and we are going to cure more. We are curing childhood
leukemias at 80%, 90% of cases of childhood leukemias. Have long-term cures,
terrible side effects. We're trying to now
work backwards to diminish those side effects. A woman with breast
cancer living in 2025 has a completely
different outlook on her life than a woman with breast
cancer in 2015 or even in 1915. You know, massive changes. A woman or a man with pancreatic or gallbladder cancer
that's spread has no change in their life expectancy,
basically, give or take, since dozens of years. So I think we will find a way
through, find a pathway through. And every breakthrough will
be a great moment for us as scientists, as human
beings, and as patients. But it's very hard to
answer, "Can we ever cure it?" It's not going away,
that's for sure. We know that random, stochastic
genetic accidents cause cancer, just as carcinogens
cause cancer. We know exactly how
they cause cancer. They cause mutations, and
those happen when cells divide. When they make copies
of themselves. You can get a random
genetic accident. And that is the genetic accident
that leads to cancer, among, you know, many other things. So I think the word
cancer is not going to be removed from our society. In the way that, you
know, I don't know, certain other diseases
have been really -- in the way that smallpox,
you know, has really vastly,
not completely. But vastly disappeared
from our society. So cancer will always
be with us. Its metaphors will be with
us, its memes will be with us. But I think we'll change
the way we think about it. >> Dhruv Khullar: We
have a couple questions from young people in the
audience, it looks like. And I guess, putting them
together, what advice you have for people who are at the
start of their careers? Who want to do something
in medicine, or science, or journalism, or who just
want to nudge the world in a better direction? >> Siddhartha Mukherjee: Well -- -- I have a memory of a young
journalist and doctor who came to my office 10 years
ago, 15 years ago. And that was Dhruv. And I don't remember
-- generally speaking, I give terrible advice. So whatever I'm going to say, you should probably
immediately discount it. But the general thing that
I say to people is to have at least one big idea. And then once you know you have
that big idea, really follow it. It sounds like vague
advice, and it probably is. I'm not going to give you
a step-by-step, you know, ascendancy into becoming a
writer for The New Yorker. But nonetheless, I do
think it's important to have one big idea
and to execute it. And really to learn
how to execute it. To really put yourself --
to learn how to execute it. I'll give you a quick anecdote
which I found very moving. I went to a medical conference. And, you know, medical
conferences have scientists. And they have physicians and
physician scientists, et cetera. And I went to a dinner, and
someone had passed away, and it was a memorial. And the person stood up and
said, you know, so on, so forth, whoever it was, never made a
major scientific discovery. But he learned how to
cure childhood leukemia. And I thought to myself, "That's
a very beautiful thought." He never made a big
scientific discovery, but maybe he learned
how to speak to patients and their families. He learned how to bring the
child back year after year, month after month,
to be reexamined. He learned how to administer
chemotherapy in a way that the child would
be able to take it. He maybe learned
how to tell a story. Maybe he learned puppetry. I mean, I don't know,
but he learned something. He had one big idea, and
he learned something. So I don't think there's a
formulaic way of stating it. But to learn how to do
something is very beautiful and very important. And now we have machines
to compete with, so we'd better do it quickly. >> Dhruv Khullar: Well, Sid,
thank you for this conversation. Thank you for this
book, and thank you all for coming this evening. >> Siddhartha Mukherjee:
Thank you. [ Applause ]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: f1vmMhi6Q3M (https://youtu.be/f1vmMhi6Q3M) ===

given that we now are able to look at her own genome so to speak with 23andme offering at $100 is this something you have done would you do or is it something that is useful for rest of us that's a very important question I had decided that thought long and hard about it I decide not to do it not to have my own genome sequenced partly because I don't know we don't know what the determinants are for schizophrenia right now so it would be kind of an empty vacuum and even if I realize that there would be a 20% increase in my risk what would I do about it but most importantly and here's the moral conundrum I have two children two daughters what if only one of them turned out to have what if you sequence their genomes and only one of them turned out to have that predisposition would it change the way that I thought about my two children who I think about equivalently right now it goes back to your question which is and what's interesting about it that this these are choices that we will face these are concrete choices carved in our future and we'd better answer these questions because the other concrete choices that will be carved in our future I've decided not to do this right now because the knowledge is so insufficient but make no mistake it's this is part of our future it's coming our way and we'd better have I hope number one the vocabulary to deal with it but number two the kind of humanistic constructs to be able to answer what the questions that are being asked by unanswered by our genomes you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: f2nTtvWEbdY (https://youtu.be/f2nTtvWEbdY) ===

it's now my great pleasure to introduce Our Guest this evening uh Dr sidhart M muckery uh Dr muckery won the 2011 piser prize for non-fiction for the Emperor of all maladies a meticulously researched and panoramic history of humankind's fight against cancer it was named to numerous media Outlets best of year lists and was adapted by Ken Burns into a PBS documentary Dr muckery is also the author of a number one New York's Times bestseller the Gene and intimate history after after completing Secondary School in India uh he earned his undergraduate degree in biology at Stanford and then attended Oxford University as a road scholar after which he attended Harvard Medical School currently Dr muckery is associate professor of medicine at Columbia University a cancer physician at the New York Presbyterian Hospital and a researcher whose laboratory focuses on discovering new cancer drugs his articles and commentary have been published in such places as nature New England Journal of Medicine the New York Times the new Republic uh in his in in his new book the song of the cell Dr muckery tells the story of how scientists discovered cells began to understand them and now we're using that knowledge to create new humans uh filled with writing so vivid lucid and suspenseful that complex science becomes thrilling this the song of the cell is laced with M Dr Muer's own experience as a researcher a physician and a prolific reader joining Dr marcker G on stage tonight is a Philadelphia Superstar Dr Carl Jun Dr Jun is the Richard W vague professor of Immunology excuse me of immunotherapy in the department of pathology ology and laboratory medicine at the University of Pennsylvania Pearlman School of Music music Pearlman school of medicine I was going there pretty well but okay where he where he is also uh the director of the center for cellular immunotherapies uh and um involved with the Parker Institute for cancer immunotherapy he is acclaimed for his research in treatment of leukemia Dr June pioneered car T therapy the first FDA approved personalized cellular therapy he's published more than 500 medical papers and has received numerous Awards and honors I picked a few that I thought were the among the most interesting he has distinguished graduate award from the US Naval Academy he has the KO Medical Science prize from Japan and the Breakthrough prize in life sciences uh I know we're all eager to hear what is sure to be an amazing discussion so please join me in welcoming uh sidart of muckery and Carl Jun to the stage hi well hello and welcome everyone um it's really a great time to be here you know with Philadelphia just getting a Nobel prize for the co vaccine so if you missed that on to [Music] Monday so you know s I've been wonder you know the main you know your book you know the song of the cell here is such an amazing story and I hope you all read it because it puts in a Layman's way how you can understand for instance the mystery of how all of us start with one cell but how a kangaroo starts with one cell and yet how are we so different you know and it takes it through that and then how can that lead into cancer and other diseases so I think it's it makes it and understanding the history of how it happened because there's so many improbable things that said you know in you know and talks about in that that I think um it just makes it in a way that you just it's so delicious to read so thanks for coming down oh pleasure thank you Carl and I have knowing each other you're even in the book uh you you you have you have a cameo appearance yeah so you know I think you know understanding a cell and what can go wrong is really important um I wonder what you learned most while you were doing that you know overview so um what's interesting about it is that um I think that there were um sort of three very broad threads that bring this book together um the first thread um actually is the fact that we know very we knew or I knew very little about U this whole story um it's another I think uh to some extent like my first book and my second book um it's it's it was sort of to even to me an untold story um who found the first cell what did they think about it how did they figure that piece out um and what happened what was the what were the events or the series of events that led to the the discovery and then subsequently the realization that all of us are made out of cells so um so there was there's a there's a massive historical piece um second um there was a um scientific piece and the scientific piece is uh how does all of this work um how does a single cell develop into a full-fledged organism um how does any of this um manifest itself in nor normaly and um what is the what is the nature how are we built out of all of this um that's an an amazing story and how do we figure all of that out starting from the interior anatomy of the cell the structural anatomy of the cell to the physiology of the cell um and then the third piece which of course you're um very much a part of and very much involved in and Philadelphia is very much a part of is um you know what happens when things go abnormally um and how to treat them um and um obviously uh I wanted to congratulate you also on on the Breakthrough prize but um that prize is of course given because um it was no fewer than I don't know a few miles from here maybe less than a few miles from here where um uh the first uh child with leukemia was treated with te- cell modified te- cell therapies um of course uh under under your uh um vision and um what's astonishing about it which you know and I know but maybe the rest of that this audience doesn't know was that this young girl Emily Whitehead whose picture you can um see here see here I'll put it up in 2 seconds um was so uh ill that she was basically given up for dead the first picture in the pictures um that's Emily um so so sick that she was G given up for dead um brought here in in in deep deep physiological distress any I don't know many of you have had The Misfortune or the or the opportunity to see a a patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in the sort of the the deadliest stages of the disease they are so sick um that it's um it's almost as if everything fails all at once it's a the the the whole system is under collapse and that was true as you very well note for Emily and and um with the tea cells um and with the other therapies that were appropriately given and we can come back to that story in a second um she came alive and um then remained alive and is alive but the most interesting piece of all of this is that she is now a freshman freshw woman at the University of Pennsylvania um so um this human being would not exist on the planet um and you know revolutions begin one human being medical revolutions begin one human being at a time other revolutions also began one human being at a time but uh but it's that it's important to recognize the role that that you and others have played in this and really congratulate um the whole ecosystem of course and then and congratulate Emily um on her and on her journey and maybe she'll go on to cure um yet another disease maybe maybe it's paying it forward yeah it's it's been quite a story with her um and you know what's it because she almost died I mean as sit said she was really sick she had a fever of 106° for three days after we treated her and I me we had no idea why that was and um through pure Serendipity we found out that it was the car T cells attacking her own bone marrow and the L IIA and then fighting back that led to this horrendous fever that wasn't caused by an infection that that was a new finding in medicine that you could actually hyperactivate the immune system that way and and we now learned that that's that's actually a good sign it used to be you know when you got really sick like that that was bad but it now means that that's a sign of response and you know Sid and I grew up in medicine with where highd dose chemotherapy and radiation was what was given and then when you got sick like that it didn't mean you were getting better it just meant it was toxic so we had a whole new thing um that we're involved in now which is these new kinds of immunotherapies that's called an On Target effect when um you know the treatment is actually causing side effects but it's because you're getting better and you know so completely different than chemotherapy where it doesn't help so that now you know we actually you have to tell the patients about the difference between those and um they accept that it's a lot harder to have your hair fall out and vomit from chemotherapy and it's not helping you get better so now I mean actually I've seen patients start smiling when they get the fever um so and I want to tell you you know I think s could give you an update he's made a whole new kind of therapy but you know the other main kind of leukemia one is B cell leukemia and that's that's that's what Emily had but the other is called myoid leukemia and Sid has invented a really interesting uh new generation of therapy for that maybe you could give us an update yeah so um uh that's in my other life uh U but in my other life actually uh uh still think about medicine um but uh uh the idea there was so um it with with B cell leukemias um uh which like the ones that Emily had um you get a little bit of an evolutionary trick um and The evolutionary trick is and very few people know this it turns out that for reasons that we don't fully understand we understand somewhat you human beings can live without B cells um uh we may have to give them medicines B cells make antibodies or precursors that make antibodies and you can actually give people anti antibodies by infusion um so um in fact um one thing that you might know it's interesting side again a side note um is that that's partly the reason that babies um get their antibodies from their mothers usually um because there's a passive transfer of antibodies until their own immune systems can get activated and and start working um so so you can live without B cells um and that's a that's a peculiarity evolutionary peculiarity that human beings have so therefore when you kill a leukemia B cell leukemia you end up typically uh at least temporarily also killing B cells and that is by a miraculous chance compatible with Life otherwise someone like Emily you could never treat because you would kill her B cell leukemia the malignant or cancerous B cells but you'd also end up killing her normal B cells and that would be if it if that was incompatible with with life then she we won't be able to she wouldn't be able to live now the other kind of leukemia has uh unfortunately B Be deviled us for a very long time and because it it's not a B cell leukemia it's a leukemia of a different part of the blood uh called myoid cells so myoid leukemias are deadly um there are people often say you know how deadly you know pancreatic cancer is and so forth myo leukemia is about as deadly in in certain genetic forms about as deadly if not more deadly than any other cancer you'd ever encounter um and for the longest time we didn't know what to do about it and that was my challenge I work in the myoid world just like Carl Works to some extent in the lymphoid world the B cell t- cell world so um I um had this idea and I'll tell you the the origin it's the origin story is kind of a fun story I was in Mexico uh with my daughters um and I was making these uh drawings um and I and some of you might have ever made the nice thing on Mexico when we go there is that this house is so far away from anywhere is that you don't have any Internet um and I would encourage you if you ever want to have a good idea in life you should go to a place that has no internet uh Because the Internet is is the poison of all good ideas um so anyway so there I was sitting there without an internet feeling very frustrated uh at first and so I said you know what should I do I let's I'll sit down with my kids and do Doodles or do drawings with them and we started doing these inverted drawings so you take a instead of doing a uh you know Black Pencil on a white uh sheet you drw a white pencil on a black sheet and so forth so just for fun and then I began to think God you know um while I was doodling along and my daughters were doodling and they were drawing Mickey Mouse cartoons and um and birds and the ocean um I was drawing pictures of these myoid cells um and um the the problem with the myoid cells is that you can't live without them they're not like B cells if you kill the myoid leukemia you also kill the myoid cells and then you're stuck the person it's not compatible with Life um you can't live without them they are the cells that form your blood red blood they form your platelets the the the stuff that keeps you alive um and I thought well wait a second what if we so so all our attention those thus far had been focused on killing the cancer cell um the the abnormal maligant myoid cell and while I was making these inverted drawings I said wait a second what if we did the opposite and instead of focusing first on killing the abnormal or malignant myoid cell what if we first first K made the normal myoid cells somehow resistant or immune to a certain kind of therapy so in other words um you know uh it's almost like saying think about the world differently instead of um I'm not going to I'm going to pick up some random person in the audience instead of uh focusing our attention on that gentleman over there who um uh we want to get rid of I'm sorry we don't really want to get rid of you um but we want to get rid of um what if we made and so the only the all our attention would be how can we make how how can we identify that gentleman he's wearing a blue shirt I'm sorry um I'm sorry to make an example of you but um um he's wearing a blue shirt I I can say I'll say everyone who's wearing a blue shirt is now going to be targeted um in this audience okay um I said well what if we do did the opposite what if you said what if you said everyone in this audience stand up on your in your seats and now put a white shirt on okay and then all of a sudden by just by virtue of doing that uh the malignant cell would become uh visible um and there are genetic ways you can do this I'm not going to go into the depths of the technology but it's an inverted way of looking at the universe instead of targeting the cancer cell you basically convert the bone marrow into an immune environment or a resistance environment and you can do that there are complicated genetic mechanisms by which you can do that and once you do that all of a sudden the cancer cell stands out like a sore thumb or like this gentleman would would wearing his I'm sorry again but uh wearing his blue shirt um and so um that's what we've been done and we've done this now it sounds crazy uh but we can do this in humans we've now done this in about 12 humans and lo and behold bizar enough you can actually do this in humans you have all these Technologies a suite of technologies that allow us to now convert these cells into uh different kinds of cells the normal cells thereby making the cancer stick out like a sore thrum and now once it sticks out like a sore thumb we're deploying the next generation of therapies so that now we can kill the sore thumb remove the sore thumb whatever it might be so that's a completely new Direction um and I hope that Tri all successful and that's we there's a there are multiple iterations of it um and one iteration of course uses technology that Carl and his colleagues have developed cares again but this time directed not against B cells but against myoid cells so sorry about the very long explanation but I thought I would paint a vision of of what happens when you don't have the internet so um well hope for a power outage but um you know the cell that that's outlined in this book here you know the principles are shown is that I mean one cell can turn into two and two to four and you can do the math um and a car t- cell begins with one t- cell from the patient which is what happened in Emily and they it became literally billions but the same thing happens when the cell goes Rogue and becomes a cancer cell one cell to and it becomes billions and that's what what we have as a battle um and we'll come back to how that can happen but I wanted to ask you know since Emily's been treated there's now been about 20,000 people treated with carti cells and um the real problem has been the cost um and it cost about you know $400,000 to you know from a commercial perspective to make car T cells now although the chemotherapy and all that actually cost more if you add it up in patients who get boneal transplants so so that's a problem right now is it cost a lot and I wonder um if you can talks it about the efforts you're doing to try to democratize this yeah so another effort aside from the myo leukemia another effort that I launched is um to make these tea cells in India um and when when they're made in India generally speaking they're made for the rest of the world because um India is the largest site for um the manufacturer of all generic medicines typically inexpensive medicines if you go to Mexico and you are on herp and that her and probably came from India if you are in Venezuela or South Africa and you get some other medicine again um uh within affordability that probably came from India so I thought to myself why don't we try to make um T cells um in India carti cells in India um I'm the master of Impractical ideas by the way um if you have an impractical idea just come to me afterwards I'm I'll I'll take it all in if so I'm being the master in Practical idea that said well let's just try to do it and let's see what happens and I got I don't know how I roped you in I got K roped Carl in um and said Carl listen and and it was mostly a cold call if I remember correctly I said Carl listen you I really want to make these um genetically modified te- cells in India and offer them for um one0 maybe even 12th the price um and everyone thought it was crazy um and uh I should tell you that that was four years ago and just last month we treated our 25th patient um and very successfully um and uh we forced Carl to come maybe twice um um and we are now making the the the the toughest there would be very tough steps by the way here um you have to create basically a vault which you made here in at pen uh one of the best in its Best in Class best in the world um you have to create a vault where all of this is manufactured where one single droplet of an infections of an infection will completely close down the facility um and it has to be cleaned with a basically with a toothbrush um from beginning to end so that's how clean that facility has to be um and then a separate from making that Vault um uh and training people to get into that Vault and operate and you know they have to wear suits and so forth separate from making that um you have to make the um the gene delivery system so in other words these are these te- cells are weaponized to kill cancer they have to be weaponized they have to give them the weapon that weapon is delivered through gene therapy and that gene therapy happens to be a virus u a special kind of virus virus not the kind of virus that will infect all people these are viruses that have been um purposefully inactivated in order to make them uh inactive viruses they can deliver a gene but they can never go on and infect other cells they can only go one way um so so you have to create a facility to make that virus um and also last month in India we made a facility to make the virus so for the first time um and so it was a it was a it was a double um double whammy there were two trains that were coming at us number one is how do we make the virus the virus itself is very difficult to make we've now achieved the virus um and how do we make the cells in this Vault like facility we've made the Vault like facility and now putting those two pieces together um now we're we're making the cells we've treated 25 patient the last piece of this uh in order to be full fully democratized or fully uh uh accessible is um is to to Really um U make it you know with systems which don't rely on very high consumable prices um and so that that's one that's a third piece that's the third train um so we're now making those two um so um one mad idea leads to another so now I've gone to Bangalore and commissioned someone to make me all the tubing and the piping and the you know all the Machinery that allows us to do this um and um and as I said we've treated 25 patients and these are mostly young kids and they and this is an important word to use they are cured um so there and obviously uh inspired by Emily there's a picture of Emily in that in the facility uh we always think about her and your group um and in fact as we speak someone from Penn is is in in in in India in Bangalore Bruce lven your colleague is in is in in is in India sort of um looking at our facility giving us advice about how to move things along but um it was an incredibly generous thing for for your City to spare um uh people so that they could make a difference around the world and thank you for doing that well thank you for doing it so I mean I can tell you we have about 5,000 cases a year of you know pediatric leukemia like Emily had and I was told there were 60,000 a year in uh in India and they just didn't get treated so this is huge what it's done um and it reminds me of what you know so they really to do the kind of chemotherapy and therapy of uh childhood leukemia that we did you know carti cells are one time thing one and done you infuse it and it's over uh and you can go home but um for child what we used to do took three years uh so when a child was diagnosed it was three years of chemotherapy often radiation so that's awful from the patients perspective childhood growing up Etc but also you can't do that in India the logistics just didn't happen so those 60,000 kids mostly died whereas in the US most of them lived it just it was horrible side effects so this is doing them basically it's like what happened in Africa where advances in technology they never had landline phones in stringing Tel they went straight to cell phones and that's what says making happen uh you know there in India and hopefully in the rest of other yeah I should tell you our roster for um we have a u i mean as you you know we have to go through trials like any other it's very regulated um as I said there's almost a there's a an internal monthly inspection so an internal monthly audit but there's also random audits that are made for a Cell Therapy facility we're talking about cells so Cell Therapy facility and um uh the we also have separately a an open Line uh which allows you from anywhere outside the United States to call in and ask for potential treatment and if this is now we've extended actually this week we will begin our trial for multiple Myoma uh another deadly cancer um this is an adult cancer um but so we have now lymphoma Myoma and Leukemia covered um and then now we're beginning some gene therapy studies all of which can be done in that cell therapy unit but um we put a human being at the end of a line to pick up the phone if you um were um asking uh to be treated uh and to be put in a a a list for the trial um the person gave up after one day uh they said that they were not only that was the job so taxing because the phone rang every second um but also it was horrific because it was children from you can imagine children from Pakistan from Bangladesh from you know these places are the most populous places in the world calling every second saying you know how can I get get get on this um get on the next study list etc etc so finally we've automated it um we have right now a lottery system which is not great uh things being tough um but eventually hopefully you know we will um at some point of time um we want to return the favor that your city and um your unit has uh given to the world we want to return the favor because like you said when you start off with sometimes when you start off with bad bad technology and you get really new good technology you can go over oops sorry uh you can go over um and and you know we could at some point of time I in my imagination I could think of of a time in which we would say why why give kids 3 years of chemo um that will cause growth stunting and cognitive retardation and you know PTSD and psychiatric problems for three full years imagine being strung up to the hospital why give when you can give two shots maybe one shot um and be done uh um and if that trial proves to be true um then we will return the favor and tell you that it's true and you can then figure out how to pressurize um big Pharma companies to make it cheaper yes I I'll hand you a hot potato yeah so that's clearly a big Society issue facing us is how how to democon eyesee the technology I can tell you both here in Philadelphia and and in bangladore Bangladesh and in all throughout India the whole Co epidemic made this really difficult and slowed us down yes I mean yeah and once again back to back to Philadelphia hope you know with the help of uh your two recent Noel laurates uh we were able to get through most of that uh epidemic without the horrendous Casualty that could have happened if he didn't have had a vaccine so yeah so you know I want to go back to the beginning of your book or one of the stories which I found most um interesting really which which is a history of discovering how genes begin to work and I wonder if you can tell us about Gregor mendle yes um um so Mel's a part of this book but of course the gene leads up to the cell um and so Mel was um was a monk uh he was a Moravian monk um and um I'll tell you a story about mle but let me just tell you a story about about going to see mle um I uh it's mendal lived in a mon Monastery in the city of Bruno um and uh it's not easy to get to Brena um it's not terribly difficult but you have to change two trains land in Vienna change trains etc etc etc um and the monastery where I wanted to visit um it has no simple mechanism of communication so you can't write up front and say I'm coming you know can I go and see mle's house so I land up after this exhausting trip uh all the way um and the woman in the monastery who's sitting at the front Des says oh I'm sorry we're closed um and it's a weekday um and it's closed because of some God knows what reason so I said um how do I you know how does one to I wouldn't know you know there have no simple mechanism and I've come here from all this far away just to see the room that Gregor mle worked in um and she said well you have to present um an application in triplicate um so I said now that I'm from India I can solve that problem I said I I hereby present an application in triplicate and she looked at me she said said um okay so I filled out three forms identically uh with my name I filled them out in front of her while she watched very angrily um and then I presented her with three forms and I said here is the application in triplicate and she was very annoyed and then she let me in um anyway so that's how I got into Gregor mle's room now Gregor mle was a monk um and what mle discovered was very interesting what mental discovered was that and he had no idea he was breeding peas um and uh what he discovered was that over time um when he counted all these seven different uh uh in characteristics of peas uh traits um he found that they um would travel across Generations as if they were intact so before mendal the most logical thing to believe and sounds more much more reasonable um was that the way that we inherit characteristics from our parents is that the characteristics get put into some kind of biological blender um and they get Blended around um and thereby and you get some mixture um of traits from one parent and the other um what mle discovered is that that's not true um that there is no such blender that in fact the traits themselves are coded he didn't know any of this before he didn't know code he he didn't know but what he discovered was that the traits move across Generations intact um and that led to the idea many years later he didn't even Co the word but years and years later um about 45 years later so for 45 years basically no one read mle's paper um so if you've ever written a paper that no one's ever read um you can rest assured that maybe in 45 years someone's actually going to might read it and and be inspired but anyway uh so no one read medal's paper but about 40 odd years later people suddenly began to realize that that's how the the The Inheritance parents are U work and it took yet another 40 to 50 odd years before um scientists figured out that it was DNA that carried that message and yet another you know several years decades to figure out how it carried the message and ultimately how that message gets transmitted to your Offspring now just to bring up the story fully um the cell has a parallel history so um for the longest time people thought that you know we were made up we were slabs of meat um and it was continuous um and that you know flesh generated flesh no one knew exactly how but flesh generated flesh one very common theory was a theory called the homunculus that you know human beings were born fully formed and then we sort of got blown up like a balloon gets blown up uh over time um but cell theory is very analogous in some ways that all of a sudden you realize that that the world in the case of inheritance is the word used in this book is atomistic in the sense it's all divided up it's not one single spool it's all divided up and it's in the case of genes genes uh divided up um and similarly in in the cellular world you realize that we aren't slabs of meat um we aren't slabs of Flesh it's not continuous it comes from one cell one cell becomes two cells etc etc and if you were to looked down a microscope in through the human body then of course you'd realize that we were not made up of continuous slabs of meat but in fact we're made up of individual cells um your skin has uh billions of individual cells your brain has billions of individual cells and so forth so so um so there's a there's a there's a there's a kind of a deep analogy I would say between these ideas um and um and it leads to a set of I think very interesting philosophical questions which is why is it that matter is organized atomistically atoms um cells bodies are organized atomist atomistically information is organized atomistically um in genes information for the computer is organized atomistically in bits and btes um and you know what the advantages of that system are so um it's a very interesting philosophical question that that why these atomistic ideas um become so powerful one obvious answer is that you can you can build with building blocks uh much more easily than you can build without building blocks it's much more difficult to take as I said a whole homunculus and blow it up but maybe there's some other reason that we don't fully understand s yet um I'm reminded of this um important moment because it's philosophically important moment because in the world of computers um we are beginning to build um although we haven't succeeded yet but we're beginning to build non atomistic computers so people have heard about Quantum Computing a little bit so Quantum Computing uh or Quantum Computing in general does not rely on bits and bytes uh it it relies on other systems I'm not going to go into all the details um in the world of cells it'd be an interesting philosophical question and in the world of genes be interesting philosophical question to figure out how we could move away from these atomistic ideas um into something more probabilistic than less atomistic and and what that would do but um I'll leave that kind of as an open and I don't know the answer but I I love these kinds of um puzzles cuz what would be what would we start looking like if we started having let's say some kind of hybrid cell um we've actually started making some uh We've made a a completely new a Neo cell um a cell that's never been found not not found in nature you you I've discussed this before um in fact we put them into human beings um uh to treat cancer but and um and so far they've lived they live as neoc cells Neo completely neoc cells of course A C cell is a something yourself so you know I think we have time just for one more question and then we're going to have uh you know uh time for audience question and answer so um you know I wonder if you might talk about you know this the new aspect now cells of of um you know we when I was in medical school and would said you know we were taught cells not at the same time yeah but close but anyway but that cells progressively differentiate and the age and that you can't reverse time um and there's been a revolution now where of now making stem cells out of mature cells and I wonder if you might describe a little bit about plur poent stem cells sure um it people thought that this was complete Madness um and again this was one of these completely impractical improbable ideas um taken up by a Japanese scientist shya yamanaka who also won the Nobel Prize um several years ago but yamanaka launched this um there were there were sort of very vague hints um from various people that this could be done that you had to you could take a cell and reverse its time in terms of Aging so you could take a mature cell and make it a plor poent cell and by a plor poent cell it means that that cell can give rise to so you take a skin cell which is completely committed it is completely fixed to being a skin cell and you can take that skin cell and reverse time and make it into a cell that can become skin and cartilage and Bone and neurons and all of these other kinds of cells in fact in principle we know in animals it can become a full animal um so you've converted a fully mature cell into a cell that's has all these capabilities um there were some hints that it could be done uh work that had been done earlier suggested that there were there was a possibility that that you could do this um and um yamanaka um did this improbable thing is that he he imagined that there were a combination of genes that would be able to do this he knew that unlikely be one Gene and so he began to test combinations but in hundreds of com hundreds thousands tens of thousands of combinations of genes cuz not not one would do so imagine that you have you know 10 genes in one column 10 genes in the second column 10 genes in the third and 10 already now you can you can imagine that you have you know more than 100,000 combinations that you can possibly or permutations that you can possibly have of those of picking from column 1 2 3 and four um but he did this and eventually found four um and now you know there's some chemicals that can even replace some of them so we're entering an era where you could take um a skin cell um and I know you've been working on this yourself uh you can take a skin cell or some other cell some mature cell and make it into a tea cell and then make that T Cell into a car T Cell so you can essentially create an immune system or part of an immune system out of a skin cell and you no longer have to wait for um you know those cells to become what they become you can in fact grow these cells and put them in a bank and if you would were to ever need C cells or te- cells you could grow them up and they would become cartis cells and te- cells so an incredible Revolution we come to that towards the end of the book but um but that's the that's the incredible capacity that that um that and very very surprising certainly no want to imagine that any of that could be done yeah completely true I mean you know first cell therapies were things like blood transfusion um which came out in World War II just and that I mean saved many lives just to be a type blood but now what you just heard from Sid is a revolution that if you can make and regenerate different kinds of cells that's the future we have coming forward I think with Cell Therapy yeah let me just before we end up with the audience let just going to just put one last thought in in people's uh brains which I think is is is very important um is that we're sitting on top of three revolutions and may not occur to you scientifically it may not occur to you but these are generational changing revolutions and we're seeing them right now you know the problem is when you look at things so close up they don't seem as if they're so such a big change um number one is artificial intelligence um uh the the stuff that you see about artificial intelligence you know the kind of chat gbd stuff that's just nothing that's tily winks compared to the the real depth of things you can do make new kinds of medicines make new kinds of materials make new kinds of various things um we can talk about the problems um uh which the existential threats that that causes as well happy to answer that question number two is um a cellular Revolution so we're now making new kinds of cells we can Bank them um we can uh via the cellular Revolution we can make we can basically absorb the benefits of the genetic Revolution so they're sort of two things combining together so to give one example IVF is an example of cell of the cellular Revolution So Close by that we don't think of it that way but of course it is it's a it's a cellular product uh human beings are cellular products and the third one of course is we're sort of in the middle of is the information revolution so um what's most interesting and I'll leave this as a last sort of thought question is when these three things come together um and the both the benefits and the existential threats that that can bring and I think that is an interesting note to end on because you know you can go home and stay awake all night thinking about about what what will happen when these two things come together well thank you very much thank you s I just want to thank both of you for your contributions as well as coming out here tonight thank you so much um the question I have for you guys is uh relative to the last topic that you were talking about about um cells um I I've I think everybody has heard about the henria LAX cells um and you were talking about age the cells age um but hers don't seem to is there does is there some type of uh explanation for that well cancer cells the hers are cancer cells so they were they were cells taken from um Henrietta LAX um uh cancer canc cancer cells seem to defy the standard processes of Aging even cancer cells age um and cancer cells die the problem is that they is that they reproduce um and those it's not that again remember that cancer cells also die like like normal cells die the problem is that they reproduce so much that the death is never ever completely dep of that cell or that cell lineage is never completed so they keep reproducing and reproducing a normal cell will have a finite number of reproductions before it becomes tired and says I'm done I'm becoming a um you know I'm either dying or I'm going to become a mature cell and sit tight for instance in your brain for a long time period of time that's the normal process and there's a mechanism by which that happens um and over time the the genetic programs of a of a cell gets locked and more and more locked and more and more locked ultimately leading to a normal cell becoming either dead or uh becoming a mature cell and sitting tight in cancer that does not happen and that's what doesn't happen in henrix cells so people often say cancer cells are Immortal they're not Immortal in the sense that they in the sense that you might understand it colloquially they also die the problem is that they don't have a program to stop reproducing um so that's the fundamental difference it's not cell death although there's some cancers that involve cell death a few but it's not the question of cell death it's or a lack of cell death cancer cells die very much the problem with cancer cell is is the the capacity to not be able to stop reproducing and not be able to reach that state in which they get locked and say I'm done yeah the um to just say a little bit more about that um uh normal cells have a clock in them and they count every time they divide and actually DNA shortens the end of the DNA the Tails is one way of knowing how many times the cell is divided and and that's been worked out in human terms to really last us a LIF span but not we couldn't go and have another one of us be cloned without lengthening your DNA the ends of that again and Leonard haick here in in Philadelphia described that called the hylick phenomena that you can only divide so many times unless you get immortalized and that's what happened Henry had a LAX cancer cells they could always reproduce you talking about neoc cells um what is a neocell exactly I mean how how is it different from you know the cells in your body it's you said it's made made in a lab um and okay so so why did you do it what's the function and does it does it work does it work like your your all your cells it divides it has the same chemistry it has the same cell bodies and you know mechanisms and whatnot so um there many there many different ways you can approach making a neocell um I I'm we're using them we're using a very primitive uh or I would say the first generation of the so what we're creating is we're taking cells and making them have hybrid properties and why did we do that we did that because for solid tumors um these uh can lung cancer breast cancer Etc these C cells which seem so effective in blood cancers don't seem to work very well in solid cancers um and we really fully don't understand why Carl's described a few of the phenomenon why but U we don't fully understand exactly why one of the most horrific images that I've ever seen and Carl's published on this is you take a solid tumor in an animal model or even in a human and you take C T cells and you'll see the te- cells form a ring around the the solid tumor but they can't get in and whether that's we know some some reasons why it's a physical barrier it's a chemical barrier there there are there are active factors that the tumors is secreting to prevent tea cells from getting in but that's what the problem is so but there is another cell uh that actually gets in very well um and it's a myoid cell we back to my favorite myoid cell um these are cells that are professionals that their job is to scout um so right now in your body these cells are Scouting Around um looking for um looking for pathogens and making sure that they don't that you don't have pathogens and they can get into tumors very well um so the reason we made them we said well what if we take a myoid cell and we we convert it into uh and give it the apparatus of a t- cell so we mix we create a hybrid cell which is half a myoid cell and then half a t- cell so that it would go into a tumor and then kill like a t- cell will kill so that was a reason behind this as we've treated some patients and we're waiting for some data to figure out whether it works or doesn't work but at least it gets in and stays but that's just the Primitive as I said that's step one um you can do much more complicated things there are people who are working on synthetic biology much more deeply than this uh this would be one example of synthetic biology but people there there are people who are making cells um by taking um a cell uh hollowing it out in terms of pulling out all its genetic material and replacing it with uh a new genetic code a new genetic material that is also a new cell what we haven't been able to do so far and by the way that cell reproduces es reproduces its genetic material and behaves like a normal cell what we haven't been able to do so far which would be wonderful to do at some point of time because it give us enormous power is to build a complete cell from scratch that we have not been able to do that would involve building each of the organel the anatomy the parts of a cellular Anatomy from scratch I suspect we'll be able to do it at some point of time um but it would involve building mitochondria from scratch it would involve building the you know the various cell parts of the cell body the nucleus from scratch etc etc that we have not been able to do no one's been able to do so yeah a put a little context um we right now just have this year the 50th anniversary of where recombinant biology and molecular biology started where you could actually take the part of a gene take it out of one say a bacteria put it in a virus and the other way around change it cells that's what Sid's talking about so 50 years ago the very first ability to do that happened and so you can make new kinds of cells um we learned about during Co the so-called gain of function research you know where you heard a lot of talk about people intentionally engineering viruses to be either more virulent or not I mean we've used viruses that have been the pathogenicity has been taken out of them so they could be used as a tool but you can have a form of biologic Warfare where you use the same technology to make you know worse agents either viruses or bacteria so there's an issue here on uh ethics um and how you control science this way that you know which is something that we need to have harmonization on between different countries and and that that has evolved now because these tools are become literally sometimes high school students can do this in their garage as somebody who's a practitioner and very familiar with impractical ideas I want to thank you on all our behalf that you pure and practical ideas have become so practical and so life affirming and I have a question that has nothing to do with cells I was an English major I'm interested in if you wouldn't mind telling us a little bit about your growing up in India and when as a child or as a young adult or a young man you started to have thoughts like this and a little bit about your family um so I I grew up uh in India and I I came quite quickly to um uh uh University at uh at at Stanford um I um uh what one thing that people don't know about me is for my entire childhood I thought I would be a musician um and I learned music very very very U deeply uh um and very few people know about this but um so that was what I was going to do um and I I think and if I may answer your question a little bit metaphorically I think um it is not a coincidence that a lot of scientists are musicians um and in general it's not a coincidence there a lot of mathematicians a lot of biologists lot of actually the a vast number of creative people if they don't Know music they'll at least understand why music is important um and I'll tell you why I think um because it allows you and it asks you music allows you asks you to make something out of nothing um so you take sound which you and I are making right now and all of a sudden you're asked to say take that sound and make something completely different out of it um and and especially uh if you're interested in jazz or composition to it doesn't matter you're asked to make something completely different out of something something else so I a lot of what I do and again I don't speak very publicly about it but a lot of what I do I think goes back to that I that idea so I went to Stanford and the first thing I discovered is I went and started working I was you know I was interested in music still but I thought you know let me I'll sort of V vely interested in biology I was good at science um and so I went to work for Paul Berg U at Paul Berg's lab and Paul Berg happened to be the person who had invented recombinant DNA so so this was what you could do you could still do you can go to pen and say I'm going to go work for Carl Jun sorry I'm just recruiting people to your laboratory but anyway um so you can do things like this um and so I went to work for Paul's Lab at Paul's lab and I got two things out of this number one is I learned that just like in music you can make something out of nothing uh or something out of something else you can do that in science um Paul by the way loved music was very interested in music and the second thing is that Paul once he had made this incredible discovery that you can take two pieces of genes and make a Neo Gene a completely new genetic material he had organized uh the the most important ethics conference in the history of biology called the asamar conference um and so from him I also learned the fact that along with Biology you also have to have training or some kind of idea of the effects that you're producing in the world and the way to do that is to engage with the world through ethical dialogue the books or whatever it might be so that that dialogue doesn't get interrupted you you're not sort of this uh person in a white coat um but in fact are having engagement with the world so I hope that's some answer to your lovely question hi um my quick question is um you mentioned some of the Revolutions in medicine and one of them is AI and I was wondering if um any of your therapies that you're working on incorporate AI or anything like of that nature um so the quick answer is yes um um uh so I've started some new work um another totally impractical idea but the Impractical idea was I was talking just talking to car about it beforehand is I thought to myself if we can do all of this fun stuff with AI why can't we use AI to make medicines um because uh AI can test all of that so um and in fact why can't we use AI to make the beginnings of a ctis cell so the new thing that I'm doing right now I I was showing Carl my my latest pictures I I send them to Carl occas they like baby pictures but um but we've just begun to design um the the the beginnings of a ctis cell based on AI Alone um and that will I think be something that's um really going to be super interesting for me um maybe it'll never work out completely impractical idea but something to look forward to thank you very [Applause] much

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: fiZO9q-Th_w (https://youtu.be/fiZO9q-Th_w) ===

cancer is as old as human life itself.
The first known written reference to cancer appears in a 15-foot papyrus
prepared by an Egyptian physician 4,000 years ago. He numbered all the diseases
and their treatments known to the ancient world. Case number 45 refers to
swellings of the breasts, large spreading and hard. Under the section titled
treatment, it reads simply, "there is none." The main impetus for for making the book and the documentary was was to sort of give us a road map of where we are and
where we're going with cancer research I'd like to describe the documentary as
a kind of report card on cancer and it's it's not just documentary I think of it
as news in some ways you know in our long and complex struggle against this
family of diseases called cancer we've really not had a report card, we haven't
had a time in which we've sort of taken a step back and said let's create a way
to think about what's been achieved, what the challenges are, what the
next steps are in a very global sense all the way from the basic science to
the delivery of extremely complex new innovative cancer care to patients. We
have an incredible series of resources here at Columbia that are really
unmatched around the world on one hand we have a community hospital where
patients really come off the large community that we have around the campus
but also we have a really a state-of-the-art academic medical center
where the capacity to collaborate with leaders in the field of lymphoma in the
field of leukemia in the biology of multiple diseases, multiple forms of
cancer, is really unmatched. There's not one kind of cancer but there are many
kinds of cancers and that even within let's say a particular specimen of
of you let's say just take breast cancer or even take her 2 positive breast cancer.
One woman's breast cancer in the genetic sense is different from another woman's
breast cancer, even though they might share some common features. So one of the large projects that's going on right now is a project of determining to what
extent do different cancers share common features and to what extent are they
really different. Cancer is not a disease which is a just a cell in isolation but
in fact has a physiological context and to understand cancer you need to
understand its physiological context which means collaborating with people
who don't necessarily work on cancer and to treat cancer you need similarly a
collaborative context in which you are asking for help from people in kidney
diseases from people who from doctors who take care of bone diseases from
doctors who are in the neurological center so I think this is this kind of
collaboration is very unique and it really plays to the strengths of the
departments. You can imagine an end to cancer and the answer is probably no but
a thoughtful no I think we'll prevent some cancers we will treat some cancers, we will cure some other cancers, and some will remain challenges and the diversity
of our approach to the diversity of cancer will reflect the complex biology
of this disease

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: gMx-lKHASp8 (https://youtu.be/gMx-lKHASp8) ===

Cancer is not it's not just a cellular
cellular disease. It's a physiological disease. It's an environmental disease. It's an economic disease. In some ways, you could say that
it's a disease of racial disparity. Many of you know my next guest
as the Pulitzer Prize winning author of The Emperor of All Maladies,
The Song of the cell and the Gene. He's one of the best
medical writers of our time. And you don't have to take my word for it. He won the Pulitzer Prize in 2011,
and he is the New York Times Top 100 books of the century. Time magazine's all time
100 best nonfiction books. And it's hard to believe, but
the Emperor of All Maladies was published 15 years ago, and a lot has happened
in cancer research since then. And we'll be getting into that today
because The Emperor of All Maladies was rereleased last month
with four major chapters highlighting the new developments
of detection, prevention, treatment and most importantly,
a change in perspective on how we should approach
cancer research and treatment. And I have to tell you,
this is one of my all time favorite books. And if you may have noticed, I'm
a huge fan. Doctor Mukherjee, I am truly honored
to have you here on this second opinion. Welcome. My pleasure. Thank you very much.
Thank you for having me. Oh, it's a pleasure. You said you wrote this book
while you were an oncology fellow, right? That's correct. When did you have time to write a book? As an oncology fellow, I mean, did you jot
notes after clinic or after call nights? Where did you get the time? That's exactly what I did. I mean, this book was not a book. This book was a journal. And I never at one point, you know, never really thought
it would become a book. It was only after, you know, probably 200 pages of journaling, that I thought, you know, it's it's an interesting fact
that we don't know so much about cancer. Most importantly, patients don't know
so much about cancer patients or to really deserve to know. They want to know. One of the first questions
patients ask, as you very well know, is
why am I being treated this way? Not just my prognosis, which is of course
an important not just my diagnosis,
which is important, but what? Why this therapy? How how did we get here? How did I get here? You know, every patient asks, what were my
what would my risk factors? What did I do? Right? What did I do wrong? You know, all of these questions. And what was astonishing is that,
you know, of course, we have individual answers to all these questions,
and they're important. But but we also needed,
I think I began to realize that we needed a kind of historical answer
to this question. And that historical answer
is what prompted, you know, this, the
the the first version of the book. You know, I think to, to be able to write
this book, you have to be an exquisite storyteller. And I think it all also requires
a lot of just sensitivity and empathy to be able to write a book
like this, because, as you said, it's a lot of things. It's
not just a medical book. And it's not just
it's not written for people. You don't have to be a doctor
to read this book. And enjoy it and understand it. It's history. It's a detective book, it's memoir. It's all of these things. And your book has so many literary river
references in your book. I mean, that to me
is just incredibly, amazing. So when did you have time to read
all of these books that you weave into the storytelling
of your own book? Well, you know, I was a reader right
from as long as I remember. And and the literary references
that are strewn throughout the book aren't just there
for sort of, I don't know, showing off the literary references. They exist for a very particular reason. And the reason is that the word cancer,
metaphorically, is not just any other word. It's a word that's stitched into, our consciousness, our imagination,
our literature, our writing. I mean, you know,
we use cancer metaphorically. We can we say, you know, this is a cancer in our society. We say, you know, your behavior that day was so malignant. These are the uses of the word cancer. Malignant metaphorically. And by that nature, by its very nature,
the idea of an insurmountable disease, a challenge that we can't even seem
to understand, let alone solve. A challenge
that is so ancient and yet so modern. But also, who else can understand grief in this intimate way,
then a cancer patient. So? So these aren't. I often tell people the literary
references, like they're just to kind of, be there or to sound erudite or to sound, sound, you know, bring you to a poem. They're there
because they serve a purpose. They remind us that this journey
that we're in the middle of, with all its twists
and turns and its incredible highs and lows
and its transformational capacity, that the fact that people get transformed,
patients get transformed by their diagnosis,
their loved ones get transformed as they start this journey
with with patients. Is an is an ancient journey
and a modern journey. Well, you know, I, I too am. I'm a lover of language and of literature
and, the one thing I have to say about your book is that it is one of the books that I consistently listened to. I, you know, now I let's talk
about, cancer and the history of cancer and really how our understanding of it
and how that's evolved. And I think that, you know, cancer,
just like you say, it signifies everything that's bad
and, and horrible that we think about. And I think it's the most feared
because it's the least understood. And, you know,
I grew up in the 60s and cancer, and my world was something that was really shrouded
in fear and secrecy and shame. And, you know, how we talk about it,
you know, we're always battling cancer
or it's a war or we're fighting cancer. And it makes it seem as though, you know, if we were only stronger, braver
somehow, we could win. But you thought you said something. What you said. I think it was in this,
the new section of your book where you say a positive mental attitude
does not cure cancer any more than a negative attitude
causes cancer. But that's not really how people see it. They feel like,
you know, oh, if I would just you know, if I could just buck up here,
I do. Better. Yeah. I think that's a very that that is a
that is exactly what this book tries to try to answer
or to some extent, challenge. It's not your fault. It was never your fault. Obviously there are people who make, behavioral choices. Smoking. Be one of them. But, you know, many people get cancer
for no reason that they understand or know when cells divide,
they inevitably acquire mutations, accidental mutations. And so cancer is also a genetic accident. It is also a disease caused by a virus that you may not have known
that you contracted. It is a disease caused by exposure to a carcinogen that you may not know
that you were exposed to. So. So there are, as I said, 4 or 5 fundamental ways
that your genes can be changed. And cancer is ultimately a disease
which is caused by mutations in genes. Yeah. You know, and this is this is
something is very personal for me because, you know, my mother died of colon cancer
when I was 12 years old. I am one of eight
children, and six of my seven siblings
have had a total of eight cancers. So it's ever present,
and it's something that, you know, you want to,
at least from my point of view. I hope that it's not genetic,
but there's something else. And, but I also can't say that, you know,
there's any blame to be had here. I always tried to understand it and hopefully do some of the things
that I can do to prevent cancer, which I think is is very important
and not really talked about a lot. But I think part of our understanding or lack thereof, has really, really shows up in your book. And I would really like for you
to just take a minute and just briefly go through
some of the disproven theories about the origin of cancer
and how we've sometimes been led astray by that. And I'm thinking of,
you know, all the ones back from the beginning of time,
the black bile, bad genes and, and how that is affected,
how we deal with it. Well, I mean, the, the the theory
that last the longest time, even though it's been disproven and and now
we don't even remember it, was that, cancer was caused by, the accumulation of black bile,
one of the four humors. You know, this was a theory
propounded by the ancient, physicians, including Galen himself. You know, Galen thought that the human body was made up of a balance
of four humorous black bile, yellow bile, phlegm and blood. And Galen and Galen. This, Imagine that every disease
could be sort of classified. The the nasality of disease,
the pathophysiology of the disease could be described
by an imbalance of these things. Cancer was attached to, black bile. It's interesting that
the only other disease that was attached to or one other disease that was attached
to black bile was depression. And the idea was that if you could push out the black bile,
if you could somehow let it out, you know, sort of like cutting it out
with, and letting the pus out. In this case, the black bailout
that you would get rid of cancer. That was the major theory that that that existed
for a very long time. And, and. And this was the theory that led to whether two things
that I want to say about that and that you know, when you say black bile,
even though they had no objective evidence that there was any black bile
anywhere in the body, it was just the notion
that that they called it black bile, because black was also the word
that describes something bad and horrible. It was. So we had this black bile. But this same theory
led us to what we did for a long time. What? Bloodletting. Right? That's right. That's exactly right. And, you know,
it was so imaginatively rich, so metaphorically suggestive
that people really believed it. Yeah. And it went on for a very long time. We were when we were bloodletting
until the 19th century. Right. That's right. And in fact, people often say, you know,
what is the theory of cancer? You know, that lasted the longest. And this was the theory of cancer
that lasted the longest. The the the the genetic mutation theory is only about,
you know, 50 odd years old, right? And do you think that we have sort of been
misled in this fight or war on cancer, because we've really thought of it
as sort of a monolithic disease, when in reality
it's not it's hundreds of diseases that there is going to be no one answer to. Right. That's correct. I mean, I, I generally, try to cut
what is what I think is a middle view. And the middle view is that, yes,
there are hundreds of diseases, but we wouldn't call them all cancers. They didn't have some commonalities. And they do have commonalities. The commonalities are, you know,
they are all diseases caused by mutations in, in in genes. These genes are genes that fundamentally
affect the growth of cells. They also affect other properties
of cells, including metabolism and including yeah, the way they these cells can occupy spaces
that they aren't supposed to occupy. But primarily it is the growth of cells
that's, disrupted. So, that's one commonality. We can understand them as a common
set of diseases and also potentially devise treatments which, cut through
or cut across different kinds of cancer. I mean, again, in the new chapters, we encounter
immunological therapies, immunotherapy. Immunotherapy works against,
you know, many forms of colorectal cancer. It also works against
many forms of skin cancer. It also works against,
you know, some other kinds of, different kinds of cancers. And you would have thought that,
you know, got. Now, what is skin
cancer has to do with colorectal cancer? They look different under the microscope. They behave differently in the body. And yet in both cases, in some, particular instances,
immunological therapy is what works. Welcome back to the second Opinion. Today's segment is presented
by Alloy Health. Aging happens to all of us,
but that doesn't mean you have to live with hot
flashes, brain fog, poor sleep, weight gain, or skin that suddenly feels like
it belongs to someone else. These types of changes aren't random. They are hormonal. We know women out there have questions, so
we're here to help answer some of those. We've received a number of listener
questions about all things women's health. So I'm here to give you a second opinion. Our listener question is. I've been told by my doctor to wait until
full menopause before doing anything. Is that correct? Or would I benefit from acting
now when symptoms first emerge? Well, this is a very good question. And even though the definition of menopause is having
had your last menstrual period plus 12 months to confirm
that it's your last menstrual period, there is no reason
you need to wait to initiate therapy. First off, I want to say this. You get treatment
when your symptoms are bothersome to you. There is no benefit
and to waiting for 12 months to confirm that you're in menopause. Most women will start having symptoms
for years before they actually get
to their last menstrual period. Or what if you have an IUD or you've had a procedure
such as an endometrial ablation? How would you know when your last
menstrual period actually is? So that's why that definition
is not really helpful. I think that the important thing is
that women understand that you should seek treatment when you are having
any of the symptoms of menopause, such as hot flashes,
mood swings, night sweats, brain fog that are bothersome to you,
and there is new evidence now that says that the earlier
you seek treatment and start hormone therapy,
the more benefits you accrue. So an answer to that question. No, you do not have to wait
until full menopause, perimenopause
and symptoms are clinical diagnosis, which means that when you are bothered
that is when you should seek treatment. And that is why we at Alloy Health understand this distinction
and we will not have any one wait. So please,
if you're having symptoms, get treated. Don't wait. If today's question made
you think about your own symptoms, or if you're ready
to finally get some answers. Alloy Health is a great place to start. Join the 95% of women who tried alloy and saw relief
in the first two weeks. Head to my alloy.com
and tell them all about your symptoms, and you'll get a fully customized
treatment plan. And you'll get $25 off
your first order today when you use code TSO 25. Head to my allied.com and enter code
TSO 25 to get $25 off your first order. This episode is brought to you by our friends at Rivian,
and they're all electric, full sized SUVs and trucks made for all of life's
adventures. Rivian
just announced their all new Rivian quad, their fastest, most capable vehicle yet. Powered by four motors,
one for each wheel. It gives you unmatched traction control
and performance anywhere you are on winding roads or off
road trails. The quad is engineered for precision
driving and maximum adventure
with a native Knox port. The quad is compatible
with 50,000 DC fast chargers, so getting back on the road is hassle free
with beautifully designed interiors, tons of storage
and incredible capability inside and out. The quad is made for everyday comfort
and rugged utility. Plus, you'll love the tech. The Rivian experience gets better
over time with software updates. The premium audio experience
sounds as good as the ride feels. Premium audio is part of the Sound Plus
Vision package in quad and tri vehicles, and can be a paid upgrade in dual models and the Rivian Autonomy platform. Plus, a paid subscription product, offers
a full suite of advanced safety and driver
assistance features. There is adaptive cruise
control, active lane keeping, blind spot monitoring, and forward collision
warning with automatic emergency braking. Check out the all new all
electric quad truck or SUV and the full lineup
of vehicles now@rivian.com. So one thing that I really want to emphasize for
our audience is that, you know, cancer has been with us for
as long as we have been on this planet, but our understanding of cancer
is really relatively recent. And the question I have for
you is, Sykes, over the past, let's say, 50 years, what's been our biggest success and what has been
our biggest failure in this? I think the biggest success is, what I outlined in the last chapter of
the new version of the book, which is that we are slowly edging towards what I call a physiological
understanding of cancer. And by that I mean not. We stopped thinking about cancer
as a kind of, spaceship floating in the vacuum, a set of cells that that's a spaceship
floating in a vacuum. Cancer cells engage the body. The last chapter is called a body
in a body. Cancer cells engage the body,
they draw blood vessels. They change the metabolism of the body. They suck nutrients from the body. In very particular ways. They use very particular mechanisms, to fuel their growth. They avoid the immune system, ironically, using some mechanisms by which the, the, the fetus avoids the,
the maternal immune system. I mean, who would have thought that cancer
could, basically plagiarized or somehow, successfully, imitate the idea
that it could live inside the body? In the same way
and be not recognized as a foreign object in the same way that, you know, that that that that a fetus is, is in a body, and is not recognized
and rejected as a foreign object. But all of this is coming true. And this is the physiology of cancer is one of the greatest things
that we've discovered recently. Yeah. And I think that that's really important
that that we understand that the, our immune system is very active
in fighting not just foreign invaders, but
the invaders from within, such as cancer. I want to talk a little bit about, the prevention
and screening aspect, because you talk about that in the,
in the new chapters of your book as well. And you know what
screening can and cannot do? And I want to, before we get to screening,
spend a little time on prevention, because, you know, of the things
that we think about when we think cancer, we think of prevention, screening,
treatment, diagnosis and treatment. But we don't spend
a lot of time on prevention. And why do you think that is? Because wouldn't it be the best thing in the world to say, well,
we can worry about how to treat cancer, but why don't we spend time thinking about
how not to increase our risk for cancer? Because we understand
we can never eliminated. Well, so this has been a big I think, big question in the entire cancer
community, which is how to prevent cancer more effectively
and how how we might not have to, you know, spend all our money
and resources trying to treat it. The problem has been that
for a very long time, we understood as as I said,
we understood the root cause of cancer, which is, mutations in genes. Some in some cases
this is because of genetic accidents. We can't fundamentally speaking,
we can't prevent those genetic accidents. Right. But what we can do is we also know
that these mutations in the gene, in genes can be caused by substances
in the, in the, in, in the environment. Just to give you some examples,
obviously tobacco smoke we talked about we also, you know, formaldehyde. Asbestos. We had a test called the Ames test,
but that could only detect, a fraction
of all the potential carcinogens. We also had biological tests, but biological tests by and by that,
I mean exposing animals to animals. Yeah. But that's that's also limited,
because you can only expose, you know, you can only do so much. But, but but there are a hidden universe of carcinogens that we had been unable
to see before that. Now, biological methods,
refined biological methods are beginning to understand,
and they're very surprising. I I'll, I'll leave a little bit
of the mystery to the readers, but these are a surprising group
of carcinogens that whose mechanism you wouldn't
normally suspect. These are these are new, new questions. And and the hope is that
we will devise tests for these new question agents
and find them and prevent them. Well, you know, this is a good way,
a good segue between talking about screening
and talking about the thing that really, I would have to say is always foremost
in the mind of, my listeners and viewers, and that is breast cancer
for women of a certain age. And, and we have to recognize the fact
that even in the 30 plus years that I've been in medicine,
that we've made considerable progress both in screening and treatment
with, breast cancer. But we also and that's why
I love your book, because you also have the historical perspective
of how many times we've gotten it wrong. And we talk about getting it wrong
for a very long time. Was the these radical mastectomies
that that happened for what? That went on for like 80 years
and for women who. Well, this was before
we had mammograms to screen. But the same radical treatment was done
for all of these women. For my listeners
who don't understand what that means, everybody knows what a mastectomy
but a mastectomy is. But radical mastectomies
were very disfiguring surgeries. They took off the breasts. They took the muscles that,
and that were underlying the lymph nodes
from the neck, from the axilla. And it was disfiguring. And in a lot of ways,
I think that and and for a lot of women, which contributes to the fear of breast
cancer, is the treatment was as horrific
almost as the disease itself. I also want to talk about the differences
in the treatments that we have now. So can we just talk about that
for a moment where breast cancer is? So breast
cancer is one of the cancers where, the treatment is has changed so much. We now know that breast cancer comes, in many forms, but two essential forms is a form
that's responsive to hormonal treatment and a form
that's not responsive to our emerging. So we call the first one ERP positive. The other one is negative. The second fact is
that there's another target on breast cancer
that we now know called Co two, which is a gene that is amplified
in certain breast cancers. And in fact, just even last month
that protocol was changed because a new version of an anti
her two drug emerged. And just last month the, the trials showed that we should be
changing that protocol all over again. I won't go into the details of what
what the protocol is, but let me just tell you the following. For a woman with an ERP positive, Her2 positive breast cancer
that's small and removable. That woman can can likely enjoy. And by enjoy, I mean really enjoy
in the sense that she will, you know, suffer through some consequences,
obviously, of the drugs. But she can easily
imagine 15 to 20 years of lifetime without any cancer. And for the most part, many of these women are, functionally cured. There is no radical mastectomy. There is, in fact, only. Even though that's it's
still a surgical procedure. There's only a so-called lumpectomy,
followed by radiation, followed by therapy. Therapy often can take a while. It can take some time. But nonetheless, the
the lifetime of this person has really, really changed in a way that,
you know, a woman in the 1940s would suffer a disfiguring procedure,
possibly no medicines at the end. And always worry year
after year of the possibility that the breast cancer would return
to kill this woman, unfortunately. So a dramatic difference. And it is actually making a difference
to women's lives. Right? And, you know, I, I'm going to take issue
with one thing that, when I read in your book because you said it again this time,
and that is about the relationship of estrogen
and breast cancer in terms of being and, particularly post-menopausal estrogen
being a risk factor for breast cancer. That's not really the case. You know,
I mean, when you look at the fact that, you know, estrogen increases with age,
estrogen use is down in this country. And so even with the interpretation
of the data, you know, and we can have this argument later,
but there does not appear to be, you know, using hormone therapy
or particularly estrogen itself does not increase
your risk of breast cancer. It is what it is. But, and I think that's
a very different conversation than using estrogen afterwards or what that means in the space of the treatment. But just having women
be fearful of estrogen because they fear breast cancer,
because the one thing that I always like to tell my patients
and even my listeners, is that, you know, even women
who are diagnosed with breast cancer, they're more likely to die
of cardiovascular disease than they are to die of their breast cancer
in today's world with early diagnosis. So that's one of those, things that, you know,
where women blame themselves for sometimes for having made a choice
that may or may not. And, and in most cases
did not really impact. But you know, this is a, you raise a very important point,
but it's actually clarified in the book, The oh, I know. It's it's
the book makes very clear two things. Number one is that there's disagreement, around these studies
that, the interpretation of these studies. So I've, I've, I've actually made it
a point to point that out and that the, the million Women study
and the UK study and versus
the American study had discrepancies. I point that out as well. Yeah. And thirdly, that estrogen pills
versus estrogen plus progesterone pills are very different from each other
in terms of impact on on on cancer. So all of these are pointed
out in the book. So, I hope you don't take issue
with those, because I make it very clear that there's, that that there's the data
is still the the jury is still out. Well, I think that that would be a whole
we could have a whole other show about that,
about just discussing those two studies. But I don't want to, leave this without, getting to some other
just one of the basic things that you talk about in your book
and that how we look at cancer and how we have looked at cancer
historically. Historically. Now that we have the ability
to look at the cell or the cancer and target the cell itself,
but you bring up the concept of not just the seed but the soil. And by that I mean the seed
being the cancer cell itself and the soil being the environment
that that cancer cell happens to find itself in,
and that we can't really just do one in isolation
without thinking about the other. Is that a fair way to say it?
That's exactly the right way to say it. And and we need to find out
what the characteristics of the soil are. We know some of the characteristics
of the soils, the soil as immune cells. We know how to potentially activate them
in certain circumstances. The soil has, blood vessels. There are medicines
that are now very actively looking at how to stop cancer cells from, putting out blood vessels so that the the soil has nutrients,
the soil has all these mechanisms. And there are, I would say if there are lots
and lots of seed therapies. And by that
I mean that therapies that attack cancer cells
that are now more and more soil therapies. Right. That change the microenvironment
around the cancer cells so that they don't, don't have a, don't,
don't, don't have the the capacity
to grow the way they normally do. Right. And, you know, the reason
why that's so important to me is that, because there has to be some underpinning about the, disparities in cancer outcomes for, for black people,
African-Americans in this country. You know, it's not as if,
you know, when you keep focusing on just the cell, just the cell
and not looking at the and the not just the even the,
the environment that there's, but the whole microcosm that exists, then
you're going to miss some of the things because we're focusing too narrowly
on, That's right. So cancer is I mean,
and this is the last chapter of the book, cancer is not it's
not just the cellular cellular disease. It's a physiological disease. It's an environmental disease. It's an economic disease. In some ways, you could say that
it's a disease of racial disparity. You can look at, prostate cancer outcomes among African-American men
versus white men. You can look at the disparities in breast
cancer outcomes among African-American women and, and,
and white women, for instance, and realize that cancer
is not just a disease of cells. It is also a disease of societies. Exactly. I before I let you go, I'm going to give I know that you have got things
that you are working on in your lab. And just tell me
what is the the source of hope for you. And as we are sort of entering
into a new era of cancer therapy and treatment,
what are you most excited about? Well,
I'm excited about the idea that we can use combined modality treatment. So I'm excited about
the fact that if we combine, multiple ways, tackling cancer, not just one that we,
we give it a multi-hit, that will actually begin
to cure the disease. And of course, I'm excited about the fact that we have new ways
of thinking about prevention. So those are the two arenas
that I'm most excited about. Obviously, when I think about
multiple modalities, I'm thinking about not just the immune system,
but also the soil, as you call it. Also, new genetic, ways of turning on and turning off genes,
using medicines of various sorts. But almost always the successes in cancer
therapy have been combined modality. And I'm excited about the fact
that we will soon launch not just one therapy trials,
but combined therapy trials. How long do you think
it's going to take us when we look back on where we are today? How long
do you think it's going to be before we're looking at what we do now,
the same way we looked at bloodletting. It's a tough question. But, you know, the world in in cancer. I just told you the the a new trial
comes along every day, and it's practically every month is a practice
changing, changing trial. So. So, we, you know, the the pace of research has accelerated exponentially. And one of the things I would make a plea
for is that, as you very well know, there's an attack on science
and there's an attack on research. In the country that's going on right now,
we just need to stop that. Because if we don't do that,
it seems often it seems sort of someone else's problem,
but it becomes your problem when your loved one
or you have a disease like cancer and there isn't research support to, drive
the next innovation. Thank you so much. Thank you.
And thank you for this incredible podcast. We have reached the part of the show
where I give my doctor's orders or takeaways from today's conversation,
and the first thing I want to say to you is that early detection and screening
saves lives. So please get those mammograms and colon
cancer screenings. But when it comes to things
like total body scans and multi cancer blood tests, there is no proof
that they improve outcome. And not only do they not improve outcome
but they are costly. So just be careful. Number two ovarian cancer is unfortunately a cancer
that we do not have screening for. But I do want you to know
that there is information that you can use for women who have used oral
contraceptives for five years or more. The risk of ovarian cancer is 50% less. And if you happen to be
getting a tubal ligation or getting your tubes tied
for sterilization, don't just tie the tubes or burn
the tubes had them removed. The new theory
is that many ovarian cancers don't even originate in the ovaries,
but in the fallopian tube. And three I think a very important concept
is seed versus soil. The cancer risk that we all encounter is
shaped not just by the cancer cell itself, but the environment or the ecosystem
that produces it. So this is where in maintaining
a healthy lifestyle matters. Check out our show notes
for more information on the topic. Join each week
wherever you find your podcasts. As I break down medical topics
and leave you with expert advice, if you enjoyed the show, follow us
so you never miss an episode. If you like what you hear, leave a review. You can submit your questions on my social
or online at Doctor Sharon malone.com
and click on the Second opinion. Until next week, take care.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: hf0aOkDLUkQ (https://youtu.be/hf0aOkDLUkQ) ===

well welcome back what a terrific poster session that was incredibly energetic one comment I wanted to make although we don't have lots of people standing in the back we do have a bunch of seats up front over here they're marked reserved it's mostly for the award ceremony later anybody can sit in any seat whether it's marked reserved or not it's fine so if people don't want to stand in back feel free to come down well in organizing this year's symposium you might notice in the upper right of this slide that we keep showing is the number 30 and the reason for that is that we are ending the year now which is a commemorative year for NHGRI it's our 30th anniversary as an organization for those you may not know the full history the Institute first existed as an office coming into being in 1989 thus the 30 year anniversary the reason the office was created was because the notion of launching the human genome project was very much on everybody's mind in fact it was being ready to be launched so that by 1990 when the human genome project was launched we moved from being an office to being a center the National Center for Human Genome Research and then later eventually became an institute and so in thinking about those suppose we wanted this year's theme to be sort of a bit celebratory commemorative about the 30th anniversary and so it was part of the reason we wanted to have not one but two featured keynote presenters and in each case I thought about who to get and to invite and I wanted to make sure that each would in their own way provide some historic context for NHGRI for the field of genomics and genetics and for sort of a look back maybe the 30 years or even beyond to contextualize our commemoration of our 30th anniversary so we're truly honored to have as our first keynote presenter a truly gifted physician researcher award-winning author educator and a friend of NHGRI as dr. Sidman Croce now Sid was born and raised in New Delhi India he later travelled to the United States where in 1993 he received a BS in biology from Stanford University he then studied as a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford completing the D fell in immunology in 1996 before returning to the United States to attend medical school at Harvard University after earning his MD and mm it trained in internal medicine oncology as a fellow at Boston's Dana Farber Cancer Institute and the Massachusetts General Hospital and then in 2009 he joined the faculty of the department of medicine in the division of hematology oncology at Columbia University Medical Center where he has worked up to the present time Sid is a talented oncologist he's a first-rate researcher having a research program that really covers the full spectrum from very basic cancer biology to translational efforts and designing new cancer treatments but beyond his excellence as an oncologist and a cancer researcher Sid excels at educating the public about science and medicine and oh boy has he been amazingly productive in this role so Sid is now well known and highly respected for his books for example the Emperor of all maladies a biography of cancer which earned him the 2011 Pulitzer Prize followed by you know the gene an intimate history which won him international awards and was recognized by the Washington Post and The New York Times as one of the most influential books of 2016 these published works exhibits its outstanding literary skills but furthermore the Emperor of all maladies has been adapted into a documentary by filmmaker Ken Burns and was included among Time Magazine's 100 best non-fiction books of the past century now here's the twist what most of you probably don't yet know is that NHGRI has developed a partnership with Weta the DC region's flagship PBS station related to their development of a new Ken Burns produced documentary based on SIDS 2016 book the gene and intimate history the for our film will showcase the history of genetics and genomics with the nationwide airing across the PBS network scheduled for April of 2020 in partnership with NHGRI WETA is developing an extensive educational and public engagement campaign associated with the film's release expanding opportunities for educators and students to learn about genetics and genomics and for communities the media academics of opinion leaders and and others and really offers the ability to engage all people in discussions about how advances in these rapidly expanding fields really are going to affect medicine healthcare science and public policy so it is therefore very timely to have us have CID join us for this year's symposium to help us celebrate our 30th anniversary as an organization and to tell us more about his remarkable journey as a clinician scientist author and science educator all with an eye towards the April 2020 of the PBS film on his latest book the gene something that is obviously of great interest to NHGRI so please join me in welcoming Sid monk Ricci to the podium [Applause] thank you sir real honor and a pleasure to be here I have a little treat to start us off which is that I was able to convince Ken Burns and Barrett Goodman to have a clip from the film a pre-release script from the film which only you can see which never been shown before but I should say that it's a it's an astonishing clip because it follows the journey of a patient being treated with what might should be described as genetic medicine so in other words a diagnosis this is a child with a rare genetic condition and is treated basically with a medicine that fundamentally involves genes and genomics I don't know if you've seen if you witnessed a child with spinal muscular atrophy being treated with one of the new drugs it is it's hard to describe there's a famous there's a famous saying in science or often attributed to Isaac Asimov that when a technology becomes sufficiently complex it becomes indistinguishable from magic what is happening to these children is nothing short of magical it is not the case with many diseases so I don't want to create kind of a false optimism but I wanted to show you this clip as just a big it's a short clip as a beginning to the talk so why don't we roll the video you jace got his first dose of the experimental treatment called new sanderson through an infusion into his spinal fluid when he was just 18 days old we were on a journey it was kind of like miracle or bust you know we're gonna have a miracle or we're just going to lose him our hope was that maybe our baby would be able to at least sit or eat normal food or maybe he would walk even as time goes on and Jace begins to do things that Ariel didn't there's this new hope like hey or it looks like we're going to get to raise him we were at some friends house for the evening and I set Jace down on the floor Eddie there and Jace just took a couple steps and it was like oh my goodness he's doing it like that's more than he's ever done before Jace was just going back and forth between us and we kept backing up and he would go further home to Daddy you're doing so good [Music] everyone that was there was standing around cheering and it was awesome [Music] wonderful and then on our way home it was just quiet and we were all just kind of like this really happened Jase recently celebrated his third birthday unaware that he is a medical pioneer who represents the promise of a genomic revolution decades in the making [Music] he and two dozen other pre-symptomatic children in the trial are all doing well they need spinal infusions of the drug every few months so without them they would almost certainly no longer be alive there's just times in this journey where the full seriousness of it hits us and we're like we're looking at something and we're holding a person who like earth has never seen anything like this before this has not been possible this is amazing and yet it's also really normal I'm a dreamer I mean he's just my little son so I'm just taking these moments for what they are and love and love and in love in life loving the season of life that we're in [Music] I take each moment where there has been a dramatic success doesn't just enliven the people who are working on that disease it has a ripples across the field it's one more reason to believe that those decades of really hard slogging are finally beginning to yield up some really remarkable events and that makes everybody interested in working harder and probably recruits new people into the field who maybe we're holding back for fear that this wasn't ready yet it seems to be ready now [Applause] so that's a lovely thing to see I want to give a half-an-hour talk about the span of history that we've come through I'll talk a little bit about cancer because of course that is where I specialize but I'll focus mostly on on on genes and and and how I began to think about this this field the the talk is divided into interest in this into five parts but these parts really signal sort of seminal transitions in in in our history and understanding of what is it what are these units that comprise us how do these units interact to produce us and how do they interact with the environment with chance with triggers and with choices and exposures to create this final complex being called you but the first thing we probably need to work emphasize is that even early on even before the word gene was existed the seductive quality of human heredity had captured generations of people this is a G Wells saying that heredity somehow means more to us than virtually any science because we think of it as as something that that is essential to us that perception of essentiality has remained and actually has amplified and I'll end a lot of this talk about about why that perception remains today and what the problems of such a perception can can cause what what dilemma is that can bring us but right in ancient times the idea of what was heritable this is the idea or this is the idea of the of a child being buried a homunculus being buried inside a sperm this is how people thought that heredity was passed along here is a document very early on where you see the word gene of course this is not the word gene as we understand it today this is the word gene from genealogy and this is a genealogical tree and very very early on as I said there were questions about what genes were how you could how you could imagine manipulating them and potentially potentially changing them and even Darwin didn't use the word even though of course we now have a full understanding that you cannot think about evolution molecular evolution and natural selection without thinking about genetics but the word didn't exist even the concept didn't exist until something happened in a small monastery I don't know how many people have been at this Institute to Bruno so five four okay it's not unusual it's a strange place to go to because it's a you know it's now it wasn't then it was it's a now it's a kind of a small road mark or a small town between two big towns between Vienna and Prague will you get off the train station and there is a small Eastern European town and down there's a hill and down the hill in a very kind of nondescript place comes the birthplace of I think this Institute comes the birthplace of all of our your work I would imagine and that's this monastery this is this is the monastery where Mendel worked this here this window is Mendel's window and this little plot over here which bizarrely is growing gardenias and not peas I don't know why is where Mendel began his first experiments and as you very well know these experiments were astonishing even though Mendel didn't used the word gene even Mendel himself reduce our gene he used the word something like toward units but essentially made the a fundamental change in the way heredity was conceived and the fundamental change as you all know was that Mendel began to describe the idea that heredity is carried in a form that no one had imagined before people had a mad that hereditary information was carried by blending that your mother's hereditary information and your father's ready information would sort of go into a wearing blender and out would pop you with you know a mixture of the traits Mendel describes something that was profoundly counterintuitive at that time he argued that in fact this mixture of traits that we see in the world is actually pixelated that were missing is that that in fact what is really happening during hereditary transmission is single traits or single particles again he didn't use the word gene he used other he used terms that resemble particle units were transmitted from parent to offspring via sperm and egg and these remained unbroken constant across generations and what you were seeing was a misperception we're seeing an aggregate of the this and that was what was forming and one organism it's difficult to emphasize how radical the idea was and how how ignored the idea was he gave his main talk Mendel basically wrote one paper which is a it's a good reminder to people that you know if you do a PhD thesis you and you write one paper it's perfectly fine if it's of that quality so Mendel basically wrote one paper in his lifetime you know other things about apples and cultivation but one major scientific paper in his lifetime and the the some water park apocryphal story was that it was mentioned four times before the word gene was coined so in other words in about 30 years after Mendel's death it was mentioned four times and it was read out to an audience of about 50 or 60 agricultural workers in Bruno so if you're doing a PhD and you're you find that people are dosing off in the audience you'll be ok as well as long as you write this kind of paper the idea is that of course the word the genes were rediscovered this is Hugo de Vries corns and sure Mac and they really independently working on plants and other species began to read ascribe the idea thirty years after Mendel that in fact there were these units of heredity that were moving across generations and that they were unitary in a fundamental way and very soon it became clear that these units were not just abstractions this is Archibald Garrod and English pathologists who began to who's one of the first to begin to say well these units you know you find there they're moving across plants and animals and peas and etc etc but they have consequences for humans and they have consequences for human disease and he wrote an extraordinary a book which was later edited readapted but was called Garrett's inborn errors of metabolism and these inborn errors of metabolism one of which is shown in this this this picture over here with a lady with an unusual condition these inborn errors of metabolism Garrett hypothesized what were because genes were functioning abnormally and that genes were functioning abnormally in and again an astonishing idea first and because they were not producing something they were not produced they were not converting one chemical to another chemical you can already see the idea that the whole functionality of what we know as modern the the great synthesis of of modern biology modern genetics was present in its incipient form in this idea that that and Garrett hypothesized in these books that these inborn errors of metabolism was because genes functioned abnormally and they weren't able to convert something into something else a chemical a precursor chemical into a product chemical and of course this would be later vastly modified and refined now while this was going on it's also important to realize that a second parallel strand and this is a strand that I talked about extensively in my book was also happening this strand was the strand of genetic determinism and of trying to control human heredity using social and political means and it's if there's a central point to this talk it is that these two strand the science of genetics and the desire to kool-aid jeans has always gone hand in hand and have gone hand in hand because we ascribe and continue to ascribe a special status to heredity a special status to the genome a status that is really not given to any other kind of information we don't give this status for instance to the exposures that you have in your life to the chances that you have in your life through your for instance socioeconomic status but something about genes something about genes seduces us attracts us confuses us and bewilders us and wants us want to change them if we can to make people better to make our children better and this is not a new idea it's a very old idea and if there is anything if we want to navigate and this is where we will end today in this talk if we want to navigate the space today which we have to to figure out whether we're going to change genetics human genetics forever or you know in an individual where they're going whether we're going to select certain kinds of children to implant or not implant into our wombs we have to know the beginnings of the story and we have to understand the seductions of this gene or of the genome that it is something that we have considered right from the beginning of time from Aristotle's times as something that is essential to us private to us personal to us and therefore something that has special status and is therefore very particular these are some pictures this is a rather benign looking picture but has a very macabre history this is a Nazi geneticist measuring to measuring twins the Nazi genetic project one of the aspects of the Nazi genetic project was to document which aspects of human traits were hereditary in which aspects were not height was obviously one of them but there were many many things that they measured using potential and progressively macabre experiments this is another picture to the fascinating picture I found this in the archives this is Nazi students you can see their swastikas being taught a genetic table men of Mendel's table so it was not referral to the education of the of these new recruits it was central to their education they were very much taught this and lest you and lest you believe that this was a Nazi only project that is not true in fact the Americans had their own version a Yankee version of the of this project this is a better baby's contexts where the best babies are selected this is a page from a journal which was explicitly called eugenics later became actually an American Journal of Human Genetics so we went through a transformation and the story that begins my my book is the story of Carrie buck and Emma buck mother and daughter and both were classified as being morons in other words having low intellectual or cognitive capacity based on extraordinarily poor poor testing and Carrie buck was sterilized to prevent any the birth of further children and this is the history that that precedes simultaneously as we celebrate the the Institute and its and its progress simultaneously as we celebrate that child who was able to walk who is not able to walk before we have to remember that there is a flip side to this story and that is that is the point of this of this talk will go through the the middle of this talk this will be familiar territory to you much of this work was or some of this work was done here in laboratories around here the question then became once these particles of inheritance genes had been described they had been named they'd been found across multiple species the question became how do they work what is it they work and remember Jared's famous idea that they worked through the conversion of one chemical to another so what was the structure of the gene or is a function of a gene and as far as the structure goes this is that this is famous photograph 51 and rosalind Franklin looking down her microscope working through the night trying to find progressively getting closer and closer to finding the double helix structure of DNA and Watson and and and Crick there has been a KERS and a curse written about how and what they how they found that the data but nonetheless to be correct to correctly attribute the idea that they were able to create up the first model of DNA and this is them on that day when they finish their model in Cambridge you know in a room working with pieces of tin and metal creating the first double helix model of DNA and this of course has now become the great classic of a structure that is so familiar to all of us that has become a kind of meme in in in in the audience you I often hear words like you know this was written into the DNA of their politics etcetera so much so that again that essentializing quality of the gene that it determines you determines something has become now a a public meme work between for about a decade between 1950 and 1960 laid down the foundation of an idea that a gene works by creating a message and that message ultimately is is translated into form and function usually through a protein this is a nice picture that I got from Sydney Brenner who unfortunately passed away of him having an argument with with with Watson I what I like about it is that the form and function of these two people are very different and and they they illustrate how a very very similar genomes you know they probably share ninety-nine point some percent of their genome and yet are yet are and were very very different people I was very fond I'm very fond of Sydney so that is a separate separate sweet memory so anyway in other words and this corresponding to particular chemicals DNA giving rise to an RNA and an RNA giving rise RNA and proteins mostly proteins but also RNA giving rise to the form and function and and of organisms this is something that is very special to the NIH I have gotten to know Marshall ehrenburg's wife very well and her son Jonathan Weissman who is a very prominent scientist and a great collaborator of mine but this is from her archives there if you go to their house in New York Myrna Weisman very prominent psychologist in her own right has a copy of of this original document this is the document where you see Marshall basically writing on one hand you know uua and then ascribing the amino acid to it based on chemistry and you can see him erasing some and then rewriting them on top of it cutting him out and figuring out basically what the genetic code is it's a very precious document there's a copy of it here I know and there's a copy of it there's one another copy of it in Mona's house and this of course was a an astonishing breakthrough from the foot for everyone but a particularly astonishing breakthrough for the United because no one knew who Marshall nirenberg was he arrived at a conference in the Soviet Union and essentially announced that he'd solved the genetic code and the the the famous story goes that people had to pause the conference and to figure out who he was where was he coming from obviously a young man and he would be later awarded the Nobel Prize for it for this so in other words this idea of information flow and biology will come back to the idea of information was established by the 1950s and 1960s then we come to the the the more contemporary period which is that now that the basic mechanism had been ascribed we come to the period of in which we ascribe meaning to the mechanism so what is the what is the meaning behind this how do you how do you take this mechanism and how do you derive meaning and by meaning I mean how what is the actual form what is the actual functioning of the organism and that period begins loosely in the 1970s and gose brings us up to 2001 and I've called this in the book the reading and writing of genetic information and by reading and writing I mean by reading I mean deciphering first of all what is the actual sequence of genetic information in an organism such as a human being and by writing I refer to the fact that that can we begin to change that information in any fundamental way introduce it into new organisms combine or recombine ideas between genes between one organism and the end the other this is Fred Sanger you can't give this talk without at this Institute I think without talking about either Marshall or Fred Fred also said several times in his life that he basically wrote two papers in one paper he solved the structure of insulin and the second paper he solved the structure or learned to sequence the sequence of DNA he won a Nobel Prize for one he won a Nobel Prize for the second and so if you have to write a few papers just just you know just make them make them good ones but of course as this work proceeded on one hand we were reading DNA in very simple forms the first papers often read stretches of 100 200 300 letters of DNA at one point of time the largest was the sequence of a virus which was around 5,000 odd and this was considered a major breakthrough leader the capacity to read the entire sequence of a virus genetic sequence of virus was considered a major breakthrough but at the same time the idea began to occur but what if since the genetic code is basically Universal shared all the way through evolutionary history what if we could take genes and not just read them like Sanger did but actually write genetic information and sense combine recombine them just as you recombine or combine words comp or big words and I would describe this very broadly speaking as if if you imagine a single human beings genetic encyclopedia if it was written in standard letter format it would be about 70 full volumes of the Encyclopedia Britannica I sat in one day and calculated it out so 70 foot full volume within Second Treatise in other words Eric's genome would be would cover this entire auditorium right second and and so the first attempts were extraordinarily crude in terms of rewriting that information it would be akin toward analogous to taking six volumes from one of these encyclopedias and eight volumes from another slamming them together and creating a new piece of genetic information or a new library as you will and this is her boy and starting with importantly creating the first recombinant DNA you could actually see in this in this in this in this picture what you still really draw in your laboratory a plasmid broken up somehow opened up and then a piece inserted inside that plasmid thereby creating a new new DNA molecule but that already brought together fears this was a project that was widely publicly discussed my mentor at Stanford Paul Berg was one of the co discoverers of this process he also found a mechanism basically to take two pieces of DNA from different organisms and stitch them together to form a new recombinant form of DNA but that idea brought create a public outpouring of anxiety they were right there were students in Cambridge who were organizing riots this was during a conference this I think is watered Gilbert's sitting over here and someone running up to the podium with this idea that we will create the perfect race going back to this idea of the fear of of you know now that we could put genes together in combination previously unknown would be be able to manipulate the human genome now the idea for most scientists was so far-fetched it at that point of time and you talked to Paul I have a long interview that I did with Paul around this that that the idea was so far-fetched that they basically concentrated on biosafety most of the concerns were not you know will we change the human race most of the concerns were you know what if you flush down your sink a piece of DNA containing a piece of the herpes virus and some an e coli someone wrote to Paul I have a copy of the letter someone wrote appalled saying I would like to introduce a cancer-causing gene into the e coli into an e coli base plasmid and would you could you please give me permission to you know have the enzymes from your laboratory and Paul wrote back and said you know probably just wait a little bit because we you know putting a cancer-causing gene inside the bacterium that lives in your stomach probably not a good idea etc so these anxieties of course grew and grew leading to this place this conference this is the famous Asilomar conference which is really Asilomar to the second Asilomar conference and this is a room I actually had the privilege of going with Paul to Asilomar as an undergraduate student and and and it was kind of a wonderful it was a visual tour of modern genetics you know he would say that room is where the journalists fought with each other and here is where we stayed up all night eating Chinese food and trying to write the first the first ideas of how should we drag you how should we regulate all of this and and the proposed regulation was to have an open conference this was also a radical idea that he would have an open conference and that open conference would address how to safely combine genes and again the the emphasis very much was not on human genetic manipulation but on biosafety how can we keep this safe and how can we slowly open up the gears such that these can be manipulated but that idea of safety continued and became more and more clear but on the other hand forces were already congealing to start asking the question well these are you know ideas in in other organisms what about the human genome what where is what what genes cause diseases in humans how many genes do we have what do they do how did how its variation in this this is Nancy Wexler with a child having Huntington's disease this is one of her early maps and Nancy was among the first to begin to systematically take families with this deadly disease that ran in her own family her her mother would die from it her uncle's would die from it and systematically mapping them and she was among the first to produce ultimately after several years to find the actual culprit gene now called the Huntington's gene or it produces a an abnormal signal which ultimately causes neurodegeneration and Nancy among others Francis Collins among others began to really imagine think about the capacity or the possibility of sequencing not just one gene at a time or mapping one gene at a time but mapping the whole shabang or the whole genome and there were proponents and opponents of this this is a story that's been told many times watch the documentary you'll see craig Venter saying how he thought of it first you'll see john sulston talking about how he thought of it first and and this was a public private debate covered in every national newspaper with every potential angle given to it and i think we tried to be fair to do it to everyone which is difficult to do but nonetheless the the achievement was an important achievement which was the sequence of the draft sequence after of the human genome which was finally revealed in 2001 and should be obviously said that this is one of the great landmark moments in the in human history III I'm often asked to make a distinction it's an important distinction between the success of the human genome project and the Apollo and the Manhattan objects and I think it's an important thing to convey to the public as an idea and we tried to do this in the film but I've tried to write about a writer to write more about it at the Apollo project and the Manhattan Project were question-answering projects they answered questions in other words could you take an atom and create a bomb split an atom and create a bomb out of it and the answer was yes it generated a few questions but basically it was a hypothesis ceiling effort the Manhattan sorry the Apollo project that was a Manhattan Project the Apollo project was also a hypothesis in Project can you land a human being on the moon the human genome project is not a hypothesis ceiling project it is a hypothesis generating project and therefore it's a fundamentally different project from the Apollo in the Manhattan Project so the public's expectations that oh gosh what will come out of it what what questions did we learn to answer well certainly we learned to answer some questions how many genes in human beings have what structure were they organized at which ones map want took major diseases etc but the real purpose as far as a cancer biologist is concerned was to generate questions and the questions were very many important ones well one question what would we learned well we learned that genes are more like recipes than than blueprints in other words it is not genes that determine ultimate autonomously most common features in human beings are the products of genes and environments in chance and triggers there are some Huntington disease being one of them where the gene is so autonomous that it by itself can be a powerful determinant of fate those are generally rare more common are ones that I've just described where multiplicities of genes interact with environments and chance and therefore that old idea that genes are you and your genes and these two have a one-to-one relationship is true for a very minor few genetic determinants but it's not true for many many others and of course it told us a lot about variation and constancy in the genome I take a brief aside to talk about cancer this is not a talk about cancer but in cancer we learned a lot from the gene for harm the human genome project the can't human genome project led of course the very equally famous Cancer Genome Atlas that TCGA and began to describe basically how cancers differ from each other again to go through very quickly these slides the idea that a single three single examples of can of a particular cancer in this case let's say breast cancer if you have the genome of this cancer sort of like a snake from the first to the last going across a piece of paper then you'd have a certain set of mutations in this woman another woman who'd breast cancer might a different spectrum of mutations a third woman with breast cancer we might have yet a different spectrum of mutations some are shared some are common and you could get maps that look like this and one of the major victories of this has been to address particularly particular targets inside the in these aberrant genes and cancer where you can block them with small molecules such as Gleevec in this case or antibodies such as Herceptin in this case these have been I would say seminal successes but also sobering successes in many cases we found like medicines that are determined by genetic aberrations in cancer cells have had remarkable successes in cancer Herceptin is a clearly a remarkable example of them Gleevec is a remarkable example of it last week there was an astonishing new discovery along Jenica trial which showed that about twenty to thirty percent of patients with ovarian cancer who have defects in in in DNA repair are profoundly helped by a new series of drugs called PARP inhibitors some of them actually reaching five year survival six year survivals after having advanced ovarian cancer so another seminal success within cancer but these have been I would say seminal successes but not universal across the field there are many cancers that remain recalcitrant to to to treatment I want to spend the last few minutes five minutes now talking about the future and and here is here is where we are this slide was made a long time ago this is of course Jessica yells injure the famous case this is a child who had a genetic disease that genetic disease he was photographed here just before he went to have gene therapy for this genetic disease and as many of you know he became the first victim of gene therapy his his body had a severe reaction probably an immune reaction to the gene therapy vector the virus that was used and he died as a consequence of that this brought an incredible new level of scrutiny and a kind of deep freeze on the field and what we are experiencing now we're experiencing today is a is a is the thaw of that freeze it took about ten or years for for that field to begin to thaw but last week and the week before that and the week two weeks before that and probably a year before that we've seen we began to see truly successful transformative gene therapy trials in diseases such as sickle cell anemia factor diff clotting factor deficiencies and other diseases which are now becoming not just rare diseases but in fact are common diseases and so two things are happening now which now re-raise again the capacity of all the questions about what happens in the future one is that we have now begun to ascribe and read risk in a way that we hadn't read and ascribed before because computational power has been applied to this encyclopedia and these complex human traits which were previously hidden or previously very difficult to find or scrutinized have become progressively amenable to becoming understood using computational techniques so one good example is human height for decades we knew that human height was had a genetic component to it tall parents tend to produce tall children and short parents 10 degrees short children but we had no idea about which genes what were the actual genes that controlled height how many were they and and what their identities were but we are now progressively beginning to take complex human traits such as height also risk of obesity risk of breast cancer risk of cardiovascular disease and ascribe real risk to individuals to their individual genomes based on on genetic information alone and virtually all of all of you know here that we are also inventing tools at the same time where you can not just read the genome but write the genome and by that I mean not the old method or the crude method of taking eight volumes of the Encyclopedia and six volumes of the Encyclopedia and slamming them together but going into page 147 of volumes 3 etc and changing the word this to that there's a very famous Bible in which there's a transcriptional error in which rather than saying thou shalt not commit adultery it says thou shalt commit adultery and so it's called the wicked Bible and it of course changes the meaning of of the sentence completely and therefore we are beginning to ask questions like to what extent should we be changing these meanings how will it impact medicine water the cuts impacts for culture and society and what boundaries will be drawn I want to finish to some extent by talking about some something that I talked about in the book but now has become very much a center of the conversation which is under what circumstances should be allowed genes to be altered in the germ line and many many people have this has been a huge public debate it remains a public debate because of course we are now talking about the possibility of taking this information this extraordinary information in our own hands the first thing and people often have asked me in their in the wake of the book what are your recommendations well my recommendations always have have really four central ideas and I want to end with these four ideas the first is we need to be cognizant of the history we need to read the stories and the seductions of positive eugenics and negative eugenics before we even begin this conversation because this conversation is an old one it is not a new one and the desires the tools might be new but the desires are old and combination of old desires and new tools create inevitably create ethical questions that require deep thinking about history and that's why we need to read them the second is is is something that I proposed in the book but it requires some some deep consideration and that is that virtually every time this has been considered whether we should make alterations in human genomes in the germline it begins the conversations begins with this idea of extraordinary suffering that that that we if we are to do this at all to intervene that we must be able to define these condition this cannot be a trivial pursuit it has to involve extraordinary suffering and many of you know that the most recent attempts to do this in China for instance actually failed in this even fundamental criteria we can we'll talk about it a little bit more perhaps afterwards but they did not involve a disease of extraordinary suffering the second is this idea that I've been talking about over and over again penetrance or determinism that that we when we begin this conversation we begin the conversation by reminding ourselves that for most genes this the the depth of penetrates the idea that the gene determines you and the you determine the gene is not is not a hundred percent is far from the case and so that we should have some real confidence that these things are linked together and finally the idea that that the the fetus does not speak the fetus has no voice and therefore there are only two voices that speak for the fetus right so one voice is the voice of the parents and the other voice is the voice of society and the public and that these two voices need to speak for the fetus and with the fetus to ensure that the fetus has the freedom and choice that we expected that we expect for ourselves and as long as to some extent we stay within these realms I think I think there will be increasing comfort with with altering human genes in the human genome but as we depart from them as was the case in most recent times in China I think we will become uncomfortable and we will begin to have to impose the kind of moratoria that were in posed on early early aspects of gene therapy so I will stop here there was kind of a kind of historic journey raising questions about what might happen in the future and proposing some solutions about how we might imagine altering the altering the human genome should we be given the capacity to do so in the near future thank you thank you very much [Applause] [Applause] hello Tesco there we go um so with the remaining time we have I'm happy to ask questions I have lots of things I want to ask but I'm also cognizant that there's a lot of people here who might be interested in well so if I see people queuing up at the mics I will yield time to them they have questions for Sid otherwise I'll I'll use the remaining time for my questions so it's your choice but if you're interested please go to the microphone so that was great one of the things I have always wanted to ask you but especially here you spell out this really makes me even more interested is did you always want to I mean writing a book is just must be an immense amount of work was that something that you aspire to early was it your professional training was that your work as a physician where did that sort of really come together you know that desire that desire really emerged from to two very different arenas one was very early on when I was interacting with Paul Berg in at Stanford as an undergraduate and it was very clear that Paul was not only considering the scientific questions and the technical questions that were very obviously very deep but also had to wrestle with the ethical questions in his case as I said mostly biosafety questions but questions that his students would ask him and what about me to control human fate by altering genes so the idea of public discourse was very much in part of the laboratory it was not external to the laboratory it was spoken about very often that thought was sort of buried while I finished my PhD and my my my early medical work but by the time I became a cancer physician that thought re-emerged because cancer is obviously so central to public discourse why you know where are we now in the so-called war on cancer what is happening next patients ask me this question and I began to really think seriously about sort of writing a response to it and astonishingly there was in the book so you I think of myself as sort of very fundamentally a kind of problem driven person I like I like I like to think of problems and then I like to think of how to solve those problems and this was a problem that science wasn't solving in other words there was no mat or journey that told the vast public where we were in the war and what was happening next and if it was and the solution was not scientific it had to be a book so did a similar sort of thread begin around again very similar around jeans and you know this you know this was so once I finished the Emperor of all maladies two or three things began to happen one was of course we were beginning to do we were beginning to understand complex human genetic information at a level that we hadn't understood before sequencing had become legion you could get a human genome the exome sequence set a thousand dollars public you know and you could turn on your television and you see an advertisement from 23andme or something to have your genome sequenced the second thing was that gene therapy was throwing as an idea so medically speaking these I the idea that you could use genetic medicine not only to diagnose but potentially to treat I was beginning to happen and then in the middle of all of it CRISPR and its tools synthetic DNA also came around so all of a sudden these three ideas began to coalesce into a kind of book in my mind look this book is very much about the future me and primarily is somewhat about the possible so I so so this book is very much about the second book is very much about now that we have these tools what should we do with them so is there a third book being cooked up or not yet yeah I'm in the middle of a third book I mean I had imagined a kind of triad or a quartet I'm trying to write a book which I'm still trying to wrestle around and if you have any help email me I thought that one should write or one should tell the story of cell biology but tell that story in a way in a slightly different way not in this kind of 600 page story of cell value he discovered this she discovered that she then found this he didn't found that but tell tell us how cell biology fundamentally transformed medicine that understanding human beings as Anna Kalyani writing a lot about this in the new yorker in car t cell library some party cells i release on on microenvironments wrote a piece on early diagnostics all blah but these are all intended these are my ways and exploring the same idea how did this idea that we are assemblages or Ecology's of cells how did that transform medicine and how will it transform medicine in the future starting from immunotherapy so by the way there are for those who are standing back there are seats in front there feel free to come on down and not get kicked out so there are seats in front feel free to come down why don't we take I see people queued up at the microphone Elaine what you've been what you've been speaking about but as much press as the SMA results God an equal amount of press was devoted to the cost obviously of the therapy which was beyond astronomical so as a person who has a very loud voice spanning several communities in health care that everyone from the general public to pharmaceuticals news media to patient advocacy groups I mean they're all interested in what you have to say do you do you sort of feel an obligation to jump into that dialogue I have I mean particularly in cancer medicine obviously this is closer to me than genetic medicine side but I appreciate that the principles that apply to want to fly to the other I think it's quite fair to say that the pendulum has swung towards costs that are asked I mean I recently wrote a piece about this Kim Raya and yes Carter to karti drugs also by the ranging therapy's fundamentally cost $375,000 for the $173,000 for the other so astronomical numbers I think that I think the pendulum has clearly swung in the direction part of it I hope I hope is the youth of the science in the sense that when discoveries are made that are very young in a particular science the risks that are taken are very deep and enormous and there's a there's a there's a disproportionality in and in the attempt to recover that risk so I think that disproportionately will slowly fall apart we will slowly identify hopefully patients who are likely to respond versus patients who are not like respond and to be fair patients who are likely to respond to a drug like a Carty therapy yes card a b-cell for b-cell a aloud if you do even standard economic analysis a transplant which will undergo 200 otherwise cost 250 to 300 thousand dollars so if there's truly a curative therapy I think there is a price point a high price point that can be paid for these therapies because they are transformative but I think we're in the early days I think we're far away from that price point we are in the millions which are not affordable not affordable by individuals certainly but also not affordable by health care systems if if you know if if one had to pay for this in you know single insurance pool that insurance will be would be distorted by Musa nursin we've seen that actually I analyzed recently a relatively small insurance company not small three hundred thousand four thousand patients and basically within one of these one of their sub tools was a patient with SMA getting news Anderson it was Joe it totally distorted the entire cost of that pool so these are extraordinarily important consequences I think we're early in the field young in the field gene therapy will start out expensive and the whole is that as we learn more technologically about it the cost will come down so we'll try to get in these five talked are these five questions but try to make the questions brief and we'll just keep it moving Caroline I had a longer question so we're a pretty focused audience here right we all work at the genome Institute and one of the things I think must be really interesting from your perspective is you have a book and go on book tour isn't all of that as you get you know sort of is Elena saying a wide swath of the world sort of interacting with you and I guess are there things that have really surprised you or particular things when you've talked to less scientifically oriented communities that have really stood out to you and how people have reacted to your work I think the most surprising thing is has been the revival of genetic determinism in the world the revival of the idea that which was which mean somewhat hushed for a while the revival of the idea among many people across political spectrum many people the extent to which you are the product of your genes and the genes your genes are what we are what is driving your fate your choices etc and it was it is important to convey that in certain instances that idea is true there's a truth to that idea but they're rare generally rare instances and there's certain interesting instances of the ideas completely not true and there usually I would say rare instances as well and that the reality lies somewhere in between and that uncertainty rather than being something that we're frightened of is cause for celebration it makes us different it makes life work full of surprises and you want a life of surprises you do not want a life in which your genes determine you like sadly a patient with Huntington's disease you do not want that life nor do perhaps want a life in which you have as I said where heredity loses meaning for you because if it's carry meaning for us for centuries millennia tens of thousands of thousands of years against so so somewhere in between is is I think the joy of human variation in diversity plus yeah I want to follow up on your observation about hypothesis testing versus hypothesis generating yes most of us who are clinically trained were mercilessly criticised if we dared to order a test on a patient and didn't know in advance how the result would change our management it would seem that a genome a clinical genome is somewhat disruptive to that sort of tenets and philosophy and medicine and be interested to hear your thoughts about how that's going to play out well I think it works best if if we make that information anonymous and put it in a bio bank because individual genomes as you know have don't really have the power or the computational capacity to give us real information about complex diseases they can about simple diseases but complex diseases and this is where I think we have to encourage I think rather than having private projects to have national projects such as the UK biobank make them available make them publicly available I know there's a biobank effort here to make them publicly available make them public you little veil about the computer scientists who may have a totally different set of skills then this audience or their sins Institute have and make them anonymous such that such that they can really begin to understand that complexity and generate hypotheses and answer questions so I think the idea of a clinician ordering a test today which is hypothesis generating has become more acceptable but it is most useful and most acceptable when you have a when you have a biobank and when you collect data because the amount of data is very significant here all right we're gonna just go a few minutes into overtime I know we got to get people to lunch so they're back here in the afternoon but we'll just take these three questions real quick thank you first of all I really appreciate as someone who's working on gene therapy the perspective and and inspiration that your talk today and your books have given me person I'm sure a lot of people there's one moment in the video today where Jason's mom said that the therapy was was amazing but it was also very normal and going back to your discussion of gene therapy and where the limits might be and I appreciate that you've kept this discussion so we're very unmad ik and not overly prescriptive but I wonder if you could talk about whether there are things that you think should be rebuilt in there off limits well I think the things that I talked about this I really think that as long as we remain within this triangle as long as we try to really get a sense cultural sense social social sense of what suffering is I mean the centerpiece of all of this I'm a physician so the centerpiece of all of this is to me suffering and and and for instance it is not enhancement it is it is very much about emancipation from suffering I think if we keep that as our compass as it were then the moral compass is set right I don't know where the future generations will will change that whether there will be new ideas about what suffering is and what the mild even mild forms of suffering may be amenable to various one book of genetics but as long as we we keep that compass I think we think I think we're in a safe place I kind of wanted to follow up on that your comment and specifically on the freedom and choice in the triangle the role of freedom and choice in a brave new world when we'll bring the concept of heredity the possibility of transmitting changes being produced in the germline gene and journal on genomes transmitting them to the next generation do you think that changes the our understanding of the freedom and choice and would you care to prognosticate were do you think those discussions going to take us the recursive questions which is what if we change the genes that allow us to think about choice well that would be well that would be like Francis Fukuyama's our Pollino it's an extraordinarily difficult question right because as I said but my question is slightly different actually okay my question is more about and we think about freedom as you know freedom to operate and do what I feel is you know will produce most happiness for me think about it as a form of art let's say but when we start talking about technology that change is not just myself but can affect future generations how do you think we need to define why I think we don't know I think we there is no metric by which we can account for unspoken voices I mean this this was you know this this argument has been made this was a historic argument made by people like mill and the utilitarians old philosophical argument because you cannot account for unspoken voices in the future and so there must be some way of discounting for them it's a great economics problem by the way how do you discount for future generations I don't know the answer to that question as I said my moral compass all that we know practically speaking is that they're really two voices because the fetus's voice is unknown practically speaking they're only two voices that are speaking for or against gene therapy or gene alteration in the Vedas one of them is the parents and they have the most power and the other one is society at large that recourse that surrounds that surrounds us and if these two voices were to make a decision in one direction or the other I think it'd be very tough and if there was extraordinary suffering involved I think will be very tough to prevent it I think you'd be hard-pressed not to do it Christine you get the last word okay so being Thanksgiving weekend not allowed to talk about religion or politics and being a federal employee and being completely agnostic and things I could have granted having no opinions in this time of malleable facts when you write books and you propose this that the fetus's opinion should be considered are there instances this is it's provocative what it potentially gives even if you're not dogmatic or agnostic fodder to different sides have you seen examples of your work being taken out of a context in which you don't appreciate it are there ways to write it and prevent that both of them I mean you know and it's it's a danger that you have to involve yourself in as if you have if you're if you choose to write if you choose to write and you every every time I write something there is something that I don't agree with which is written about my own work so my general response is not respond to them but to have it played out as it were in the public realm but you're absolutely right in this time of malleable information information is distorted and an altered I'll just give you one example to finish up I have very strong feelings very strong strong thoughts about the misuse historical misuse of terms like IQ I don't have a problem with the test I just had the one with the name of the test I think it should be called something else it should be called adaptability to certain forms of abstract problem-solving a RR P P P and there people have it drives people mad that if you if you say this because they believe that word they believe it exists but most importantly they believe that the word intelligence should be used in this right so and no matter what I say it say well sure there's a hereditary component to it we know this store there's you know there's one component that component to instant to share some component bla bla bla nothing satisfies in except for I keep saying that is not my argument you don't understand I just want to change the name because it signifies the cultural significance that out lies its real value I keep saying this over and over again but no one will ever listen and the best example of this was a terrible review of the gene in a very conservative English newspaper except it had the nicest that the icing on the cake was was very very sweet because the cover of this method they're very conservative English newspaper publishers review of this book very critical about this IQ business didn't talk anything that nothing to do with the book for the most part but they put a picture of left-handed DNA on the cover and so I just said nothing except I wrote them a letter and saying if you're gonna publish a review which focuses on genetics and DNA try to get the picture right Thanks so first of all thank you this was phenomenal is exactly what water for today I mean I know you have things like Pulitzer Prize and things like that but I we wanted to give you some more interesting to put into your office you could just put the Pulitzer somewhere else and you get out this beautiful little commemorative thing and I'm sure you have more important things on your wall take those down put this up [Applause] you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: hwA6xxfDY9I (https://youtu.be/hwA6xxfDY9I) ===

Thank you so much. It's a real honor to speak to all of you today. I'll have a provocative title to my talk. I've called it genomics in the post genome era. And I have a very particular meaning when I talk about this. I grew up in the I would say the genomics era, but I miss I missed it. I haven't sequenced many genomes. I my laboratory doesn't do a lot of sequencing. But what we do is use the information that's been made available by genomics and try to convert that into human therapies. So we sit on the shoulders of giants essentially. But we've never we don't actively explore. There was a time especially in oncology cancer, which is the discipline that I that I practice. There was a time where there was a there was a kind of sobering moment in oncology when the human genome was sequenced and following that cancer genomes began to be sequenced. The the the pre-sobering moment, the hype was that the sequencing of these genomes would reveal immediately would reveal a whole bunch of therapies for cancers. And in fact revealed the mechanisms by which cancers proliferated, grew, and metastasized. And then came the disappointment, which was that they that the that the genome didn't reveal a lot of information. It revealed some information, but not a lot of information especially in the therapeutic front. And that disappointment continues today to some extent. So for instance, when I the the disease that I treat mostly, lymphomas, leukemias, especially acute myelogenous leukemia, um you know, the genes that are involved in uh the mutated genes found in AML are genes that have to do with uh methylation, RNA splicing, things that you wouldn't imagine that you wouldn't imagine at the first glance would immediately tell you why these genes are involved in in that particular kind of blood cancer. And yet they are. We know clearly they are. And in fact, it's an ongoing investigation in my lab and other laboratories to figure out how these genes that seem to be unrelated at the first glance, uh you know, they're not for instance genes that regulate the cell cycle. They're not genes that regulate at the first glance, um you know, the typical proliferative capacities of a cell. But somehow or the other, there's a message that we're missing um in cellular biology um that that was not solved. Um so, there was a disappointment that came with that. But now we're realizing that we can we as I said in this what I would call the post-genome era, we're finding new ways to treat and think about cancer in particular, which I think are are profound and interesting, and they all rely on the information released by um by the by the sequencing of genomes. So, I'll focus on that. I'll focus on physiology and focus on cancer therapeutics. Uh and um So, I I suppose that the um the the the central theme of my talk is this, which is that um the news of of of my death has been vastly exaggerated. Uh sometimes attributed to Twain. The the news of the of the death of the genome has been vastly exaggerated. This disappointment um is actually disproportionate to the actual things that we're doing now with the genetic and genomic information that we have from cancer. So, I have four stories that I'll tell you. My lab works on many other pieces which I won't talk about today, splicing among other things. I talked to Phil about it just now. But let me start with this this one story which I think I like to tell stories. So, let me start with this one story. So, um this is about immune therapy for blood cancers. And by the way, this data is being revealed publicly right now. So, um as in like this minute. Um And this is not a joke. Um So, I'll tell you exactly what. So, but the conception of this of this project goes back many many years. This is a house that my family goes to in Oaxaca in the winter. Um It's built um on the water as you see. I call it the most unsafe house on the universe in the universe because that is a pool. Um it's 50 ft above the cliff and it has no railings. You can only make this uh it's a very important house architecturally. Um it belongs to an artist Gabriel Orozco, a great close friend. Um and it is actually built after uh uh the model is after an Indian observatory. Um so, that pool that you see on top which is an inverted globe in India um was the inverted globe of the cosmos. It was used in the 15th and 16th century to have an inverted shape of the cosmos so that you can figure out where the stars and the horizon was moving because the horizon is of course an upside down globe as well. Um But the idea so, um I was there about maybe six winters ago, four winters ago, five winters ago um sitting at this house and thinking about inversions. And I was making this drawing. Uh I still have this. This actually happens to be the logo of one of the companies that I've started. I still have this. I was making these inverted drawings so you can make so this was the I was drawing seabirds. Um, and you can make a an upside down drawing in which you take a a stencil almost and you can spray paint with black paint on on the white stencil and you all of a sudden get a bizarre and peculiar inverted drawing. Um, but I was also thinking about how we might be able to treat and cure a a very lethal cancer which is really whose needle has not moved in the last 50, 60 odd years and that's acute myeloid leukemia. Especially relapsed refractory acute myeloid leukemia where the mortality rate rivals any of the worst cancers that you can imagine including pancreatic and other forms of of extraordinarily lethal solid tumors. The problem is that um, hematopoietic stem cells and progenitor cells, the cells that give rise to the myeloid cells in our body, the lymphoid cells in our body, but importantly the myeloid cells in our body, neutrophils, macrophages, red blood cells, platelets, etc., etc. And AML cells share common antigens and to my mind until now for AML and not for other diseases we have never found a unique tumor antigen that we can target. Um, I'll talk about why that's different from another disease that I work on, ALL, acute lymphoblastic leukemia. AML, we haven't had a a unique tumor antigen. Every time we've targeted anything in a acute myelogenous leukemia cell, it's turned out to have its counterpart in some myeloid cell. And therefore you get dose limiting toxicities constantly and you get a you reach a ceiling, you reach a limit and then you can't go any further because the more you treat the patient, the more patient they they they the more toxicities you accumulate. Um and so that ceiling is almost a natural ceiling. It's been true for virtually every drug that's been tested, every small molecule, every targeted therapy that's been tested in this space. And so we've in in some ways we've we've really not moved the needle um for this uh particular cancer. Um so the solution to this problem, again, going back to this theme of thinking upside down, upside down universes, upside down models, upside down uh uh pictures, was to ask the question, what if we um I'm trying to advance this cursor. Um what if we imagined that again, let's imagine this is again these drawings are these actually original drawings from that um session that I had 6 years ago or 7 years ago. Um what if you imagine the cell uh where you had a normal cell and a cancer cell and they happen to share the same antigen. Now for decades, we've been monomaniacally focused on the cancer cell, trying to do something to the cancer cell, trying to kill it, trying to change it, trying to do uh make manipulations of the cancer cell. But the inversion of that and so he in this case I've put up an antigen, this case it's CD33. I'll talk about that in a second. Um it the the problem is that you can target CD33. There are many many different antibodies, CAR-T cells, etc. that target CD33. The problem is that they kill the cancer cell, but they also kill normal myeloid cells. And then you're stuck, like I said before. But the inversion is the following, which is that instead of targeting the normal cell, by that time, by 6 years ago, we had figured out tools by which we could eliminate the antigen on the normal cells. And now all of a sudden, you've bioengineered a unique tumor antigen because you have these patients will often receive transplants, you can manipulate the donor graft. And I'll show you a picture of that in a second. You essentially eliminate the the antigen from the normal cells, thereby essentially allowing this process to happen, which is that if you Again, this cursor is working. If you now target the Now you because you've engineered a unique antigen, you can use CAR-T cells, you can use an antibody directed therapy to now kill the cancer cells because they are still possess the antigen, whereas you've made the normal cells resistant to the antigen. So, in other words, you're using the tumor antigen to stand out like a sore thumb. What does that mean in real life? Well, so this is a patient on the on the right side is the is a donor, and the left side is a patient or depending on which side you're looking at, patient and donor. So, this is the patient has acute myelogenous leukemia pointed by the arrow, and they're going to receive a donor graft. This is a standard they're receiving standard hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. But now what we do is So, this is these are the stem progenitor cells from the donor, and they're matched to the patient. What we're going to do is we're going to use CRISPR to delete out CD33. So, now you get a CRISPR-less CRISPR CD33-less hematopoietic stem progenitor cell. Those lines indicate that you cannot be attacked by a CAR-T cell. These are all in principle. I'll start showing you data in a second. You can't attack it with a CAR-T cell or an antibody toxin. So, it's immune to the CAR-T cell and the antibody toxin. And then um now you give the antibody toxin. That's the AML cell, the cancer cell, which is now sensitive to the antibody toxin. And in fact, you can do one more thing, which is you can also take a T cell, a CAR-T cell from the donor. Remember, the uh the patient has now become hematopoietically reconstituted with the donor cells. So, you can take a CAR-T cell from the donor. Actually, comes out from the same um uh leukapheresis as you as you do. Um and now you can attack the the cancer cell. Is that concept clear to people? Okay. So, um we uh published a paper on this, and we patented this technology. Um um There are several groups that also did it, but we happened to do it. This is how science works. Uh we happened to do it 2 weeks before all the other patents were filed. Um it made a big difference in my life. Um But, um this is the This is the first experiment that we did in which we put in AML and a leukemic cell line into a mouse. We treated either with um And again, we deleted the um CD33. This is a mouse experiment. Uh this is an uh immunocompromised mouse, a NOD-SCID gamma mouse. We put in human leukemia. Uh we've done this experiment with primary human leukemias. We've done this with cell lines. We've done this at various combinations. Talk about some of that. And then, you treat with a uh combine either the antibody toxin, which is called Mylotarg, gemtuzumab ozogamicin. That's why it's called GO in these slides. Um or the CAR-T or a combination. Um And what happens is that um as you can imagine, uh if you don't do anything, uh the leukemia grows, the mice die. But, if you uh put in your um Sorry, I'm going to go back. But, if you put in your um if you put in your either the uh antibody toxin or the CAR-T cells, the mice essentially are cured. And we've done this experiment in various combinations. Again, I'll point out on the right side of the slide, you see the the dead mice. Those are the mice in which obviously the leukemia grew and took over the bone marrow. On the right side of the slide, you see either the combination of either the CAR-T or the CAR-T plus um gemtuzumab ozogamicin or GO. What's interesting about it is that when you use CAR-Ts and uniquely when you use CAR-Ts, you get a dip in the hematopoietic reconstitution, which worried me enormously initially. But then you get a rise again. And we still haven't quite figured out what that's because of. We think it's because of intramedullary, so in the bone marrow, the lysis of tumor cells creating a an inflammatory microenvironment, which doesn't allow the hematopoietic engraftment to happen as quickly as just treating with an antibody toxin. We're not sure about that yet. That's something that we're exploring. It's very It'll become very important in a second. And this of course is the picture of the animals that were cured with with this treatment. Um so in 2018, we issued a patent. We created a company and I'll talk about why that's important for for for at least for my ecosystem. I cannot do um both the preclinical and the clinical trials at the same time. And that's extraordinarily important. I'll come back to this idea that there's an ecosystem that's necessary to move a human medicine from the laboratory to becoming a human medicine. And that ecosystem is extraordinarily important. And that ecosystem must involve responsible, thoughtful biotech and pharmaceutical companies. And I'm using the word responsible and thoughtful and purposefully because if they're irresponsible and not thoughtful, it creates all sorts of problems. But if they are responsible and thoughtful, it creates the right ecosystem for the for for the movement of a medicine into a company. We filed multiple patents following that IPs. We in-licensed the CAR-T 33, the 33 CD33 CAR-T from the National Cancer Institute. We filed now I think six INDs, but these were the first. And the first in human studies. This is actually an old slide. I will actually I just got permission to release the first human data from this study as of this morning. So. So we created a company called Vor, which is just down the road, created GMP facility which manufactures these manipulated hematopoietic stem cells. You can imagine that there's a long pipeline. You can do many things with this kind of platform. I won't talk about all of them. We can talk about them at the Q&A session. And this is the study. I won't go through all the details of the study, but basically it looks like the mouse study. You engraft with the manipulated hematopoietic stem cells. And please don't go through all the minutia of this slide. You engraft the CD33 manipulated hematopoietic stem cells. And then you um obviously if there's residual leukemia left over manipulated, it will still express the antigen. And the we had the big advantage that we have not a great drug, but a but a good enough drug, which is Mylotarg, which is CD33 conjugated to a toxin. Which had now been brought back from from the reservoir of the dead because it had accumulated so many toxicities as you can imagine if you give it to unmanipulated cells, your neutrophil counts and your blood counts collapse. And so there had never been a successful drug, but because of some patient advocacy, they'd been brought back. And that turned out to be very important because it's very difficult, we'll come to this as a question and a problem. It's very difficult to combine two new drugs into the same trial. It's very difficult to combine a new antibody or a new CAR-T and a new manipulation of a stem cell into the same trial because the FDA will want them to be separated out so that you don't have confounding effects. By chance, by really by luck and circumstance, we all had an we had a drug. It wasn't the best drug in the world, but it was a drug. So we could use just the manipulated stem cells as a drug product. And then add the antibody toxin. Am I being totally clear by now or have have I lost people? Okay? So this is fresh off the press. Um the first patient. Um so this patient has extraordinarily nasty um uh AML. Uh I can't even begin to tell you how terrible it is. You can look at the karyotype. It doesn't even look like doesn't even resemble a normal cell. Um it's got um uh deletions, uh translocations, uh extraordinarily uh nasty. It's a P53 mutated AML. So the prognosis of these patients is very very uh poor. Uh DNMT3A is a uh gene involved in methylation. KDM 6A is another negative prognostic feature for So these patients usually have a life lifespan of post-transplant uh relapse of nearly 90% um and a and a lifespan uh a post-transplant lifespan of uh about 6 months or 4 months um because they will relapse. So um again, I don't want you to focus on what happened what what we did what the patient went through, but they went through standard induction therapy, consolidation therapy, which is the standard this is going on for 20 years or old therapy. As expected, relapsed. Then they got what's called salvage a venetoclax, which is not a great drug, but at least keeps them in a salvage mode. And then they had 1.8% MRD positive positivity. So even after all of this, they were minimal residual disease positive. That's MRD at 1.8%. So in other words, their chance of of dying without a hematopoietic stem cell transplantation was 100% because there's no nothing that will keep this MRD at 1.8%. They'll climb and climb and climb and they will die. So they then got a 10 out of 10 match. This patient happened to have a match. Very good match. Then they got standard conditioning with busulfan and fludarabine. And then they got this T-Rex cell infusion. We haven't got the name of the drug product yet, but that is the CD33 deleted cells. That's the dose. The gene editing efficiency that we allowed for the release was greater than 50%. This person had 88%. So 90% of their stem cells were edited. And of course, this is a purified CD34 product. Any questions so far? Everyone's following me, okay? So this is the early data from this patient. So the immediate engraftment would have been at day 11. In fact, this patient engrafted with the CD33 negative cells at day, sorry, day 12. So really no difference. That was the last dose of GCSF. And the important data is is what you see right here, which is that rather than their neutrophils and their platelets and their uh cells collapsing, which it would do um as we gave them um uh their their platelets started to recover. And then this is what happened. Um so their donor chimerism was nearly 100%. Their CD33 negative cells was at day 60 was 96 94 93%, but the most important thing is that um they they have now gotten three doses of the antibody toxin. Um and their uh uh stem cell their recovery has continued absolutely on the normal trajectory. So in other words, they have they have been completely immune they have become completely immune to the uh uh uh to the toxin. So this is the natural this is the ODAC committee natural. So they got 0.5 mg per kg uh uh m squared uh of um Mylotarg. Um uh at that and now they're moving on to the next dose escalation, which will be 1 mg. At that dose you should expect to see 100% saturation of the uh receptors, um but this is in a patient who's replete. This patient, remember, doesn't have any sink. Uh they they their only sink uh for this toxin is their uh is their cancer cells. Um so um uh normally you would expect that uh in eight out of nine patients within 14 days there would have been a drop in their uh neutrophil counts, uh but this patient now actually has in fact increased their neutrophil counts. At day 20 their ANC has normalized to 3.25, platelets now at 94, um and most most importantly uh no hepatotoxic uh events. Um so um tiny tiny tiny study. Uh we're recruiting six more patients this week. Um and the FDA has asked us to move them by 2 weeks, 2 weeks, and 2 weeks. So, by December we'll have a a full cohort data set. Um, but we're obviously very excited about this because uh it um, as I said, proves uh an incredibly important principle um in um in this in this platform. And there many other potential things that can be done with this platform. Well, the second thing that can be done with this platform is that um you know, often cancer cells um are um you need uh dual therapy. So, you need two targets. Um, and in fact there are two other targets that are um that are present. Uh CD uh gene called CLEC12A uh mutated in AML, uh another gene called CD123. The reason we picked these genes, by the way, is that we have the the the so-called Nomad database. The Nomad database is a very important database. It's a database of all natural deletions that are found in the human population. And just by chance, it turns out that there are many people who have naturally deleted CD33, arguing that you don't require CD33 for normal function. So, that's one of our major screens that we use to to pick out these genes. They have to be present in the leukemia and in the normal stem cells. And it's much much more reassuring to us and to the FDA if they are naturally deleted in some population of humans. CD33 happens to be one gene. There are many other such genes. What, five or six others? I can't tell you all of them, but I can tell you some of them. Um, so we've done double deletions as well. So, we've done a dual deletion. And again, the idea would be to equally delete two genes now from the hematopoietic stem cell product. In this case, we've done it with CLL1 or CLEC12A and CD33. It's uh very efficient. Um, so you get almost uh 90 95% of of deletion. And we've in the laboratory treated, again with the same principle treated now with dual CD33 and CLL1 antibodies. We have a proprietary created a proprietary antibody against CLL1, attached it with a toxin, and again you get the same results. You get uh in the mouse at least you get full engraftment with every cell type. The leukemia still expresses CLL1, expresses CD33, and when you treat you can cure the animals. Um the problem with dual targeting as you know is that it has the risk runs the risk of translocations. So the FDA told us wait a second, you can't do that. You can't do a double targeting. We've argued back with them saying that this is a totally lethal disease and this argument continues. As I said, some of this early data from patient one will help this argument, but we appreciate and understand that. So we've turned to doing two things which are interesting. Um uh both of which I'll go through very quickly because I want to get to the other parts of the presentation. So one way you can do this is you can do it sequentially. So you can do one um you can edit one or delete one, wait until the Cas9 is cleared, then delete the second. Now that's a little bit of playing with fire, although we've now adjusted the conditions and the reason is that the more days you keep stem cells, human stem cells in culture, which is how you're deleting all of this from the donor population, the more chance you have of the stem cell population decreasing. But we've managed to find what I call the golden lock spot, so we can do double editing. We've also done base editing. Now base editing remember technology that came out of Boston involves changing bases without making a double stranded break in DNA. So I'll talk quickly about base editing. We've done both sequential and base editing in animal models again we have showed the same thing that you can do a double edit you get equivalent engraftment no difference between the unedited versus edited cell that you treat them equivalently and so and in the animal models again same a data positive um I'll go through the base editing data very very quickly because I'm short on time but essentially you can get very effective dual base editing here is a example of the double base edit and you get you we've shown that you know at least the cells remain functional using standard assays like phagocytosis cell cell motility challenges with E. coli and so forth these are things that the FDA asked us to do this is now a hematopoietic stem cell that is lacking both CD33 and CLL1 and if you again treat with the antibody toxin you get very strong at the bottom you get in the dual edited cells you get very strong cell killing whereas in the unedited cells you don't get cell killing um there are some off-target effects on-target of course is predominates with CD33 um and then there's off-target effects which I think are within reasonable limits at least in genes that don't seem to affect their function as judged by animal experiments so I'll move on to the second piece of this but before I do that let me just pause for one second because this is a modular talk so are there any questions that have directly to do with this we'll have a question and answer session has any questions directly to do with this part of of the of the talk yes congrats on the amazing data. Yeah. Is there any evidence that the enriched genetic cells Yes. in the patients also harbor additional mutations in the allogeneic cells? Um we haven't tested that yet. Uh the only thing I can tell you is we got 100% chimerism, so it's easy to test. Um so we will do uh genomics uh for once in my lifetime uh on real patient data. Yes. Any other questions on this first part? Nope. We're good? Okay. Uh so I have a a quick question over here on the right. Yes, sorry. Your left. Um I'm Manolis Kellis from MIT. So my question is about CD33. Basically, when you're actually targeting these cells, where in the body does it go because CD33 is also a marker of microglia Yeah. in the brain? So um important question. So that was the two concerns about CD33. Um one concern was that there would be toxicity to Kupffer cells in the liver uh which are macrophages, resident macrophages in the liver, and microglia in the brain. Now we know that that's not going to be the case with uh Mylotarg uh at least used in the off on label use because it's been used for decades. Um so you don't get brain toxicity or you don't get neurotoxicity, and you do get hepatotoxicity, but at doses that are much much higher, tenfold higher. Uh so at 5 mg per m² um and higher doses you start getting uh hepatotoxicity. We're going to stay in the one to two uh range um and the highest range is three. Um and so far we haven't seen any hepato or neurotoxicity. Now with the CAR-T cells, it's a different story because those cells do traffic in the brain. So um that study will be a different study, and we have to be very careful about both the Kupffer cells in the liver and the CAR-T cells in the brain, both of which we will be able to assess once these patients um live longer and longer. Got it. Thank you very much. Thank you for work. Okay. Um, this is a collaboration that I did with Ron Vale. This is also a study that's recruiting. I'm only going to talk about clinical studies today, but also really about the transition from the laboratory to a clinical study. So, this collaboration is the idea of using a monocyte as an effector cell. So, remember that CAR-T cells have been used for a long time, genetically modified T cells, CAR-T 33 in our case and other CAR-Ts. I'll talk about those in a second, but but the question was why don't we use monocytes? The problem with monocytes, as you know, is that they're part of the innate immune system and they don't have a adaptive capacity, so they're not specific for any antigen or cancer. So, we said, "Well, what if we made them specific for an antigen or a cancer?" So, just a background, myeloid cells are the most abundant cells in solid tumors. They have tumoricidal activity. We know that from in vitro and in vivo experiments, but they don't have specificity, right? So, the question was how can you impart specificity to a myeloid cell? So, we created what is called a what we call a CAR-P, P for phagocytosis, work done in Sargil's lab and Carl June. I don't know if Carl is here, but has have shown similar data as well, but we've done work in parallel. So, just to create an analogy between a T cell to in a CAR-T cell, you have let's say CD19 and it's cognate receptor on the other side, which is usually a combination of the CD19 in the extracellular domain or anti-CD19, CD3 zeta, 4-1BB, or CD28, various activators in the intracellular domain. So, everyone I assume is familiar with that. We created a CAR-P receptor, which again in this case has CD19. This is not going to be our first product, but this is a proof of principle. CD19 on the extracellular domain to so so will target B cells or B cell malignancies and an engulfment receptor and there are many variations of engulfment receptors, but most importantly we use we've used LIM domain and engulfment receptors. We've used many variations, but one thing that's important is that is that these engulfment receptors work very well. So, this is a this was the one of the first in vitro videos of this CARP now swallowing up a lymphoid cell CD19 positive Raji cell. I like this video because it shows you actually two things that are very interesting. Number one is you see the engulfment and the number two is that you see that once the cell is engulfed, what happens to it is that it actually bursts inside the macrophage or monocyte and releases all its contents into the macrophage or monocyte. That's turns out to be important because that is a potential source of new antigens being cross-presented now to T cells and I'll show you data for that. So, our first version was a was a very simple CD19 on one side and the engulfment receptor on one on the other side. We added a PI3 kinase co-stimulatory domain to this based on work that had been done in my lab and in Ron Vale's lab that showed that if you stimulate the PI3 kinase using a stimulatory domain, you now get about 8 to 10-fold enhancement in the capacity to phagocytose the the cells. We've since then added even further co-stimulatory domains to this um, to raise the phagocytic capacity of these cells up to now about 20-fold, uh, from just the old version one receptors. I can't tell you what those are because they're still being in patent process. I'm sorry about that. Um, so we've started, uh, three to four studies on this. Uh, one of them is in CD5 positive T cell lymphomas. The logic there is quite obvious. You can't use a T cell to kill a T cell because it will eat itself up. Uh, whatever antigen is you're directing it against, if it's present on the normal T cell. So, um, but you can potentially use a myeloid cell to kill a T cell. So, um, it's uh, directed against T cells. Um, we have one against, uh, uh, a for ovarian cancer. We've just opened the study for Trop-2 positive, uh, breast cancer, breast and ovarian cancer. So, in fact, that study is recruiting more actively than the ovarian cancer. It's coming afterwards. Um, again, I can't show you the top line data for that because we don't have it yet. This is the mouse, uh, study. This was using a melanoma antigen, and this is the the e the um, the uh, this is a melanoma model. We we call these ATAC cells, uh, attack cells. Um, I can tell you later about how we manufacture them and how how how they're made, but basically, um, in melanoma, you see a very clear signal for, uh, transplanted ATAC cells. Um, these are transplanted at 2 * 10 to the sixth. Uh, you give them eight infusions. Um, they're quite easy to harvest in the both in mouse and and humans. Um, they accumulate, um, very nicely in tumors, and they have very strong tumor control properties, at least in the mouse model. Um, I won't show you the, uh, data that we all that I have because I'm moving through this quite quickly. Um, I won't show you that we, um, uh, see very good ev- evidence of cross-presentation. So, we've used a tumor that has ovalbumin in it, so an OVA mouse. Um and you can see a very uh striking increase in OVA specific uh T cells if you give them the uh GP75 specific monocytes. Um and that is this illustrated very crudely here is that the attack monocyte not only has a direct mechanism of killing the cancer cell, in this case using her2, but also killing activating uh having ingested the cancer cell, cross-presenting to the T cell, which then activates killing of the of the tumor cell. Some of these studies are still ongoing, so um it's a little bit early. So, we've uh dosed two patients. Um they've tolerated the doses. Uh I can't I can't tell you the final top-line data yet because we don't have it yet. Um I can tell you that one of them is now 10 months post-dosing. Um so, um I don't know what that means. Um All right, any questions on on I went through this rather quickly. I want to finish this last piece, so any questions on on the attack program? Good with Good with that? Okay. All right, um this is probably the proudest thing that my lab has done. Um and uh it's not a lab project. Um we created uh the first CAR-T cells in India. Um uh this was a population which had never CAR-Ts were never available. Um uh we uh made a fully integrated uh in a licensed CD19 CAR-T product, um a collaboration that we had with uh we developed this with uh uh Spain with uh Hospital Clinic Barcelona. Um we bought um basically paid out of our own pockets, bought two Prodigy systems and created, using Indian engineering, one and now two open systems. And by open systems I mean they don't have anything that is proprietary and belongs to uh aside from a Clinimacs unit, anything that is involves Prodigy or its consumables. Um why? Because we want to bring the cost down from about 500,000 at about a million dollars all in, including all the therapy, etc., uh down to about 40, maybe 20,000 dollars. Um now that sounds incredibly expensive, but that's about the cost of a bone marrow transplant in India right now. So we wanted to bring it down to comparable numbers. So this uh is the unit I I'm I'm sorry I'm showing you photographs like this, and this was because we built this unit during COVID. Um we essentially created a bubble um uh which was a you can only you could only test in and test out. So if you tested negative, you would be put into I mean this is a real system, put you into quarantine for 5 days, test you again, and then release you. If you left the bubble, uh but if you stayed within the bubble as the GMP unit was constructed, you could remain open and free. Um and this is the construction of the GMP unit. I went twice. Uh I I I made this unit uh with two masks, 16 hours uh on a flight, uh two N95s. Um I survived that, um which was not pleasant. Then there Then there were the vaccines, which helped my life enormously. But this is the the the a company called ImmunoCue, and I think this is probably the proudest moment of my my life, because that bag over there hanging in the first slide is being is the first patient being dosed. I dosed the first patient, um a 10-year-old boy with uh relapse refractory ALL, whose mortality would have been 100%. So would be dead uh uh by now. So, we have now CD19, CD20, BCMA, just filed two new INDs for two new um antigens in lymphoma and uh myeloma. Um as I said, we finished uh GMP facility. We were inspected by the Indian FDA, then by the EMA, and we're waiting for a uh FDA inspection. They're backlogged. Um we finished QC in uh early '22 um and have now routinely gotten 40% plus of CAR-T's uh given their pathogen-free. Uh the the QC is exactly comparable to the QC that you would see in in a CAR-T facility in U- U-Penn, for instance. I know Bruce is on our board. Bruce, I saw him in the morning. Hi, so Bruce, thank you for all your help. Um Uh so again, fully integrated. We have now uh started making our own lentivirus. So, this is the first GMP lentivirus being produced in India. The titers are totally um we are now down to about $40,000 of COGS. Uh cost of goods will be down to about $20,000. And please don't disclose this data because um this is a private session. Um so, the um what this allows us to do, of course, is not what I'm particularly proud of is to treat and cure patients uh with relapse refractory ALL and myeloma. It allows us to do a completely novel clinical trial design, which I am most excited about. Cuz if you bring COGS down by 10-fold or 20-fold or 30-fold, um you can do a completely novel kind of trial in which you say, "Well, instead of waiting for someone to fail three lines of therapy, and then give the CD19 or anti-myeloma CAR-T, what if we gave them, because we can afford to, what if we gave them the therapy at first remission?" Um a completely different idea and and I'm very very interested in this trial because I'm the the one thing I've learned in oncology, which I think is I learned from Bert Vogelstein the first time I met with Bert is Bert told me that there are three zeros between a million and a billion. Um and bizarrely enough, oncologists have forgotten that there are three zeros between a million and a billion. The relevance of that is if you have a billion cells that you're treating, it has a billion possibilities of escaping from your therapy. If you have a million cells you're treating, that is reduced by a factor of three logs. If you have a thousand cells you're treating, that is reduced by a factor of three logs. We seem to have forgotten this idea, but of course this is the basis of adjuvant therapy or in in in oncology in general is that if you treat a slower disease burden, you also get the double advantage not only of treating less cancer and more and and more on target cancer treatment, but you also get the advantage that you have less chances of relapse and failure of treatment cuz you have log fold differences in the capacity of the cells to relapse. The problem is that we can't use this because we're using typically we're using drugs in the third line, fourth line, sixth line, eighth line setting and by that time you have that carrier type that I showed you in the AML patient. Every single chromosome is gone awack, mutations galore, etc. etc. And of course you increase the capacity of the tumor to escape. Um by moving cogs down, you have really the capacity now to do what is quite I think a revolutionary kind of study, which is a a new trial design. So, I'm not going to give you all the data because these are two abstracts present We have six abstracts at ASH, uh the American Society of Hematology meeting. This is This trial is called Imagine. Um 10 patients treated so far of planned 24. Median prior lines of therapy is two lines. In the US, it would have been four or five or six. Um uh 83% uh for ALL including some cures at day 90. Um and uh for uh non-Hodgkin's lymphoma CD19 positive uh 77% with an overall response rate of Um And this is one example of a NHL patient. Um so you can see the pre and post. So diffuse um this is a PET scan, obviously. Diffuse adenopathy There's these two patients. Uh diffuse adenopathy uh uh which is PET positive all along the uh legs. Um very bright lymph nodes also under the armpits. And this is a patient Both patients uh had a complete uh response uh CR. And this continues into day 90. Um The ALL patients, the longest has gone out to I think day 144. So um presumably hopefully uh cured. Um And again, uh we do use genomics still. Um that is the uh rise. You can detect uh detect the rise of the T cells using qPCR in their blood. Um it rises to a peak of several thousand counts. And you get a B cell aplasia that accompanies this, which is a very good prognostic sign because the tumor cells are not that See, the it's sorry, the CD19 CAR-T cells are not just killing cancer cells, but they're also killing B cells. Um So um I talked about this already. Um I have one last uh uh block to talk about. I think I have six more minutes. Um any questions about Immuneel Therapeutics? Um The ASH posters will be out in seven or eight days. So you can follow that as we go along. Um I I personally have never been more proud uh than this. Um, the last study that we, um, I want to talk about is again, um, uh, study we published, uh, with Lou Cantley. Uh, it's published in Nature gosh, about 3 years ago. Um, and again has this same theme, which we in which we use uh, we stand on the shoulders of giants us- using genomics and try to make something new out of, uh, these genetic studies. Um, when this has to do with PI3K kinase, of course, uh, Lou's work, uh, everyone knows here. Um, this was back back when he was in New York in my city. Unfortunately, he's come back here, but fortunately for you, I suppose. Um, anyway, um, this goes back to studies that were, uh, done in the, uh, mid-2000s, um, in PI3K kinase mutated, uh, breast cancer. And the very surprising and disappointing data there was that even though this is a very frequent mutation in breast, endometrial, and other cancers, um, very specific PI3K kinase alpha and delta, um, inhibitors failed to show, uh, clinical responsiveness. And we really scratched our heads about this. I was in one of the trials, the AML and the MDS trial for this. We got very poor, um, these are the Kaplan-Meier curves from the New England Journal of Medicine study, and, uh, this is a comment by Ian Crock, um, uh, saying that it it's just this it's a bizarre surprise. And this was the kind of sobering data that I talked about. We have mutations, you have the genome, you have a sequence, you have a drug, and it still doesn't work. And we scratched our heads and scratched our heads and really were extraordinarily disappointed about, uh, about the study, um, as of course were patients. But then I had, uh, lunch with Lou, and Lou's very hard to have lunch with because he doesn't eat anything. Um, but, uh, but I had lunch with Lou, and, um, we began to I I said to him very casually at lunch. I said, "You know what was bizarre about the study as a clinician is that many of the patients who were pre-diabetic became frankly diabetic. So, their insulin spike, their glucose spike, we had to send them to the endocrinologists. Um the endocrinologists put them on insulin um and um you know, manage them on insulin, but they were all If they were pre-diabetic, they became diabetic. If they were non-diabetic, they began began to have glucose intolerance. And this um was a back of the napkin uh discussion um which I love having. Um but this basically shows that same data in the mouse. Um so, if you give uh PI3 kinase inhibitors in the mouse, you see the similar situation. You see this spike in glucose. Um so, essentially a week or two after we had this discussion, we went back to the laboratory, dosed mice with in this case, I think it was copanlisib, uh which is an alpha uh and uh alpha and delta specific inhibitor. Um and you can see that both the insulin rises, insulin on the on the right side shown by uh C-peptide, um BKM120 is a uh PI3 kinase inhibitor, BYL719 is one, um and of course is a vehicle control. So, um we can reproduce this diabetic phenotype in this in the animal. And then we argued or we hypothesized that what was happening is that the inhibition of PI3 kinase we and again, this shows you the blind spots that we have as as tumor biologists. We think of the tumor as if it's sitting in space. But of course, it's not sitting in space. It's sitting inside an animal. It's sitting inside a human. And so, what happens inside a human is that yes, the PI3 kinase is inhibiting the uh the inhibitor, the drug is inhibiting the uh uh PI3 kinase in the tumor, but it must also have physiological effects because there's a whole animal. It's not just sitting in space. And in fact, the physiological effect is now the release of the the body, this is the hypothesis, the body thinks that it's going through starvation because you've inhibited the central detector of of nutrients. And the response of the body is essentially your liver starts releasing glucose. That glucose then prompts the pancreas to release insulin. And now the hypothesis was that that insulin reactivates um the very genes or the very downstream pathways that the PI3K inhibitor was supposed to inhibit. I liken this to the woodcutter the famous fable of the woodcutter who sits on the tree and chops off the limb that he or she is is sitting on. Um and in fact, that turned out to be true. The most The simplest way to see this is the following. This is a tumor imaged by PET um either given vehicle or a PI3K inhibitor BKM120. And you would imagine since PET detects the glucose flux into the tumor, you'd imagine that in fact if the tumor was dying, you'd imagine the glucose flux would go down. In fact, just the opposite happens and we've done this in humans now as well. So in fact, just the opposite happens. In fact, the glucose flux goes up. Um and what really happens within the tumor is a won't go through a lot of the details, but in in in summary, what happens is what I just told you is that you get a uh uh glucose release into the pancreas. Pancreas then releases insulin. The insulin now we know binds to the insulin-like growth factor receptor and that receptor reactivates multiple genes that are resistance mechanisms to PI3K. We've shown this now in multiple models of cancer, I think 12 models of cancer. And what's interesting is that it's mutation agnostic. It's true for PI3K mutated tumors, but it's also true for PI3K in its non-mutated tumors, including pancreatic cancers in the mouse. I think I have the mouse data here. This is just that same idea repeated, which is to say that the inhibitor certainly inhibits PI3K alpha in the tumor cells. This is in the case of AML. Uh and thereby inhibits AKT, S6, and mTOR in the tumor. But the inhibitor also inhibits in the pancreas and the liver PI3K, thereby releasing insulin acting through the insulin receptor, and reactivating the downstream genes involved in tumor proliferation, resistance, and growth. Um So Um this is the There are two strategies by which you can lower insulin in vivo. You can use drugs or you can use a ketogenic diet. I remember this ketogenic diet, it's an insulin-suppressive diet. There are 1,000 variations of ketogenic diets. The sole role here is to suppress insulin. It's not to make ketones. Ketones are only there so that you can live. The sole goal here is to reduce insulin. And we we've done it done variations on this theme. We can use SGLT inhibitors or the ketogenic diet. It turns out that actually the diet plus drug combination is the best. This is the lowering of insulin in in with the ketogenic diet alone. And you can see that if you do this combination therapy, you can see that the insulin receptors is not activated, and there's a lot of biochemistry in the paper that shows that these downstream things from the insulin receptor, including AKT, S6, and mTOR are no longer activated. Um Um this is the mouse data. This is AML. Uh, it's true for uh, allografts of pancreatic cancer. It's true for endometrial cancer. Uh, these are PDX models. I think we've taken I think about 12 um, such independent models um, and shown that you get very profound reductions in uh, and in very profound uh, effects on the tumor if you combine an insulin lowering strategy with the uh, PI3K kinase alpha inhibitors. Um, I'll uh, reach my conclusions with the amount of time. So, um, I guess um, the there are vast opportunities to combine cell therapies with genomics and genetics. Uh, the uh, the rumors that uh, that we're not using genomics is is is is not true although as I said we're using them in in completely new ways um, that I think are fascinating to me as a physiologist uh, um, and as a cell biologist. Uh, obviously I talked a little bit about combining metabolic therapies with genomics. Um, the possibility of combining uh, cancers. Um, I didn't talk about degenerative disease. Um, and I'll leave you the one question that I get off asked often is how do I write books? Um, and also uh, manage to do research. I certainly don't do the research um, at the level of most people in this audience. So, um, but I do like to make medicines. Uh, I do like to make uh, do translational research. Um, and the way I do it is is by by creating uh, or delegating responsibilities to people who are extraordinary. And um, these people who've taken these projects forward in uh, these laboratories in India sitting through COVID in a bubble uh, flying across the country when it was extraordinary risky nursing the first CAR-T patients uh, whe- when no one knew how to dose T cells are just really extraordinary people. Um, uh, giving advice to us for basically for nothing. Bruce, Carl, and folks, you know, and I always remember that because Gary Gilliland, who was one of my mentors, end with this, said a thousand B pluses do not make an A plus. If you have A plus people, if you have people you can give the responsibility to, you can recruit 5,000 people and you'll never get the same result. You have one person, you have one nurse who knows how to detect an early cytokine release syndrome. That is the person who will save the life of of a 10-year-old boy getting their first CAR-T therapy. And I think that in some ways is the is my theme in life and perhaps is the message of this conference, which is if you recruit A plus people, you don't need to recruit a thousand anyone else. You just need one to be able to do that. Thank you very much. I'm happy to answer any questions. Do you sit here? Wonderful. Thank you, Sid, so much for this fantastic presentation. Let me sit here maybe. So, now we are going to be opening for Q&A. Do I need to I'm miked already, so wondering Okay, I think we have one question here. I can barely see with the light. One over there as well. So, let's just start Let's start here. Yeah. Okay, thank you. Siddhartha, thank you. That was absolutely wonderful. I wanted to ask you a question about India philosophically and more broadly. Uh you are rightly proud of what you've done there. But if the theme of this conference is about trying to take cutting-edge science and medicine to help people, let's just summarize it in that context, through accelerating what technology can do, I think it's important that we all realize that there's 8 billion people on the planet today, only 300 million of them are in this country. And your work in India, as you said, is the first example of someone building cell therapy to treat the 1.3 billion people who live in India, who represent a population that is much closer to the 8 billion people on the planet than than the 300 million here. Conventional wisdom in this country is that innovation can only come from the great US. Interesting that you're an Indian-American. Um So, there's clearly Indians who can innovate. Um just thoughts on one, is there an opportunity to push much more innovation in countries like India at the cutting edge? Two, what do we, as an industry that's dedicated to helping humans, do to shift the dynamic where, obviously, American-priced therapy is not just in in the world of cell therapy, but more broadly, are completely unaffordable to the vast majority of people on the planet. Um Yeah, so very important questions. Um first of all, that conventional wisdom is all nonsense. Um uh um uh I can speak um as a former Indian citizen, we're sending rockets to the moon just as much as you are. Um uh not that that's a proof of anything, but proves that technology can be can be moved around. But more importantly, as I pointed out to you, um I have become a believer in what I call reverse tech transfer. So, for the last 100 odd years, uh it's not true 100 years ago. Uh 100 100 years before the la- the last 100 years, technology moved from uh places like India uh north uh to the global north. Um and then, of course, in the post-colonial and colonial context, that technology started moving the other way around, coming to places like India. Um and India's only one example. China's of course another very, very large example of this. Um, I'm absolutely confident that during my lifetime we will see reverse tech transfer. Um, we're already going to see it uh in the next I would say 9 to 10 months. We will launch our first study of uh BCMA in in the after first remission. Um, that study's already been approved. This is for multiple myeloma again uh to talk about a completely new shifted paradigm. We have two new INDs that we're filing for new proprietary products developed entirely in collaboration with Spain and with the US, but they're Indian products um uh for lymphoma and uh myeloma. Um, and then we'll do another study in first remission leukemia ALL uh which will also be in first remission. We are transferring we're likely to transfer war's capacity uh not after again three lines or four lines of chemotherapy, but upon first remission. Um, all of these are going to be completely pivotal trials that will change the landscape I think of the treatment of at least blood tumors, blood cancers. Um, uh we will eventually move on to non-blood cancers. Ovarian cancer is on our line of sight. Um, and so um so that's the answer to the first question. The second question is also important. You know, how do we afford all of this? Um, certainly can't afford a million dollars. Uh we can't even afford half of a million dollars. Um, so the the COGS has to be brought down by 10-fold if not 30 to 40-fold. Um, is that doable? Yes, because we're not making gold. Uh we're not mining. Um, we're taking T cells from the body, making viruses that um you know, can deliver receptors to those T cells or myeloid cells um and then in in injecting back in them injecting them back into the human body. These are engineering problems and you've seen the the famous curves in which in in chip technology for instance or in other other forms of technologies, the prices have gone down 10-fold, 20-fold, 40-fold, 80-fold, 100-fold. Data management is another example. So, I think it's very very doable. It just has to you just have to concentrate on the engineering and and there are plenty of very good engineers around both biological and outside the world of outside the world of mechanical engineering. So, I'm pretty optimistic about it. I think Sadiq had a question. Sadiq? Yeah, Sadiq, really wonderful talk and the board data obviously personal highlight to see that patient data actually being translated. So, related to India, you know, you mentioned you use the Miltenyi Prodigy system and then you made some modifications to make it an open system. I was wondering if you could elaborate on you know, the hardware modifications that you needed to implement in India and and the QC release testing. That seems to be the biggest challenge with this decentralized type of testing model. How were you able to overcome some of those issues? Did you have to invent new methods, repurpose existing technologies? Yes, so some of it is proprietary so I I'm not I can't totally give you a full but but we made them so I made them in collaboration with the Indian engineers so that now we are basically down to just having the CliniMACS. So, everything is out of the Prodigy. So, everything we opened up the Prodigy, took out all the bottles and took out all the pipe pipes etc. etc. Our goal is to do the first study with the open system. It's not been in study yet, but what we're finding in both animal POC models and in um in by in vitro flow cytometry, etc., that the QC has not been changed at all. So, we're still getting the same level of transduction, the same QC criteria, the same number of the same MOI is being used for the lentivirus. Um so, um I think that it's possible to do it. Again, I can't not at total liberty to discuss how we changed all the piping, um but the open system works really well. Um uh and the the point is now to potentially even remove the the CliniMACS completely, um bringing down the COGS down to the levels that we talked about $20 to $30,000. And actually, related with the same, how are you planning or thinking on expanding on capabilities and throughput to make sure that you can reach to all the patient population? It's a big big challenge. Um we're doing a couple of things. Um one of them is there's a lot of training involved. Um so, we're training about 200 uh the center is now training about 200 nurses uh to take care of these patients. And we are just uh so, the Indian FDA, the DCGI, uh the Drug Controller General of of India asked us to do a multi-center study uh to show that, you know, it's not just, you know, you just didn't make up this really fancy uh center in in Bangalore uh where which is a very which is a tech hub. Um Bangalore is a very strange city. You pass through um you know, to get from the uh from get from Delhi to Bangalore is a 3-hour flight and to get from Bangalore to Electronic City, which is where India's Silicon Valley is, is a 3-hour drive. Um and you pass through roads that have been half clogged by garbage. And then you go into a GMP facility, which where there is uh you know, not one single you know, you're we're testing constantly to make sure there's not one single pathogen around. It's just a kind of mad experience. Anyway, but scalability is a big question. We're training. So there's human labor. And the second way that we're doing this is that I said, we are now beginning to manufacture open systems so that we can handle tens of patients per center per month up to about 50s of patients per center per month. And it's all about engineering because it has to do with again by opening up the system, you can supply all of these. There's no supply chain issue. You don't have to buy eight prodigies. We're actually in collaboration thinking of a collaboration with an Israeli company which will which will which has also done a lot of this work. And so we hope to be able to treat 50s of patients, maybe hundreds of patients per center per month. And the demand is infinite by the way for if you take lymphoma, leukemia, ALL, and myeloma, um it is easily potentially possible in the entire South Asia region to treat tens to 50s of patients per month. Very exciting. I think we have time perhaps for one last question. I'll get it later. I can't see you. Okay. Sid, very nice presentation. I think the five examples you talked about, I want to think about how do you look at a problem differently? You talk about innovation. You give the example of PI3K inhibitors. For people in the audience, every pharma company used to have like PI3K inhibitors. They were all doing exactly the same thing 10, 20 years, hundreds of millions of dollars, maybe billion. Nothing came up. So as we are sitting here and looking at genome secure, what do you think how do you we should look at the problem and not follow the same path? Well, I think you know, as I said, I mean you know the the the important thing that I wanted to emphasize through this talk is that the the genome is not physiology. There's a layer of physiology that's missing. If If you want to translate genomic insights into cancer therapies or to human therapies, you need to focus or understand the physiology of cancer inside you. And there's a big missing link there. I think that's the missing link that there's a there's a line in my book which is that sequencing is sequencing is seduction. It's very seductive technology because you you know, you open up a tumor and you have lots of information data about which genes are mutated, what genes are translocated, etc. etc. It's very seductive information. The problem is that that is not physiology. Physiology requires a different kind of thinking. It requires thinking in a holistic manner in a way that understands what the tumor is if you're talking about cancer and other diseases as well, but it requires a kind of different kind of thinking. And I think that that is a incredibly important missing piece in in our ecosystem around therapies today. We think about, you know, a kind of a linear way of going from genomics and genetics to therapies. The thinking is often non-linear because we discount features in the animal in humans and in cancers that that are that might be resistance mechanisms that might be countervailing mechanisms homeostasis the basics of life we discount and therefore are unable to discover why things are the way they are just to finish up just having this conversation with Phil you know we were having this conversation in in in New York um we still don't understand as I as I started off in the beginning of the talk we still don't understand why certain mutations for instance RNA splicing mutations um are so commonly present in leukemias and in some other cancers breast cancer being one of them we still don't know what does RNA splicing of all things have to do a very generalized process have to do with with cancer um and Phil pointed out and this was another talk he pointed out maybe we're just using the wrong conditions to grow the cells or to assess why they're causing cancer maybe we need to use different kinds of conditions it could be as simple as that the bone marrow is not a lump of tissue in in in your spleen it's not a lump of tissue on your skin they're different environments if you don't if you don't reproduce those environments if you don't reproduce the the the glucose content the oxygen content the insulin content which is all physiology by the way you will never know you will never discover or figure out why certain mutations or certain genomic therapies cause cancer and secondly how to potentially find therapies against them so this is a really a plug to think about the post genomic world using genomics but think about post genomic world in a in in a physiological manner Well thank you so much Sid fantastic thank you for being here today thank you Thanks a lot Thanks thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: i4vAxeSaWfU (https://youtu.be/i4vAxeSaWfU) ===

[Music] thank you I mean I said we'd go to the audience after three quarters of an hour but that's not going to happen um the third part let's let's Leap Forward so we've gone we've gone back four billion years we've done the 17th 18 into the 19th century let's get on to because what I said at the beginning you are a physician you're a cancer doctor you you you're in between meeting you yesterday and today you've been in contact with labs in New York and in India where you're actually treating patients so let's talk about the third part of verkau's idea that when cells go wrong this is the ontogeny of of disease cancer is a cellular disease it is the unregulated growth of cells well I mean you know himself saw saw this he was examining a patient and he found leukemia in fact named it leukemia um cells have an incredible quality which is that another quality of cells is that they start dividing and stop dividing it is one of the qualities of life whenever I have graduate students I ask them the first question I ask my graduate students is when you cut yourself why don't you grow a new arm um like a tree um and the answer is we know some of the answer to that question but not all the answer to the question a wound heals and continues to heal and when the cells meet each other they pass signals to each other to stop dividing and that's your wound that's healed um cancer in cancer those signals are broken through genetic mutations um and that's the fundamental basis of cancer we can talk about many many other features of cancer but the fundamental base of cancer is a cell where the normal regulation of cell division has been disrupted and thereby you're getting you start getting a cell that can't stop dividing and keeps dividing as a consequence of genetic mutations and cancer as well as you know incredibly sophisticated and evolving thing as it's as it's growing a tumor that becomes the mutations accumulate as as they grow and spread around the body and release cells with no purpose other than to keep growing there's no foresight in cancer other than to to make more cells to the detriment of the of the organism well so cancer in some ways goes back to your first question cancer is a distortion of the three principles of life it's a distortion of genetics it's a distortion of Cell Biology and it's a distortion of evolution because the cancer cell is always evolving and because as it evolves um it becomes it changes mutations accumulate it it changes its own characteristics it can co-opt uh uh properties from normal genes and and make them properties of cancer etc etc so it's a fascinating thing that the disease that is now becoming the disease that sort of defines our century is happens to be the disease that sits on top of disruptions of the three Universal principles of life and so fundamental to all aspects of of biology not we are in just talking about humans here let's think about therapies though but you know having established that cancer is a cellular disease it is a misfunction of those those principles we can also utilize we can mutate genes in cells we can use cell Therapies in order to cure loads of diseases including cancers now right so um I mean the the sum of the prominental cell therapies and again this is why I sometimes I just stay up nights in in because India's 12 hours a week we've started pioneering cell Therapies in India um and I think it's the proudest thing I've ever done it's the proudest moment of my life because when I saw the first child that we saved um with Cell Therapy um was a was a 10 year old boy um so just I'll just tell you this how it works and then talk a little bit about that moment but um the you can use a T Cell T cells are normal cells that go and kill other cells and you can genetically reprogram it outside the body I can take your T cells draw it out draw them out of your body genetically reprogram them to kill your cancer re-inject them in your body and that now it's called a car T cell and I won't explain what car stands for you can just imagine it as a modified genetically modified weaponized T cell and we reinfused those T cells in the body and they go and kill the cancer and they're actually vastly more effective than most chemotherapies these are for patients with relapsed refractory leukemias and lymphomas and myelomas blood cancers mostly um but as I said it was it is by far the proudest moment of my life when when this boy who was had relapsed refractory leukemia 10 years old came alive uh with his his car T cells and is that is that type of therapy is that only for blood cancer of which there are many yes so right now for reasons we don't fully understand um these T cells don't seem to like going and killing solid tumors which are also which are which are the majority of tumors even though there are many blood cancers um and we don't know exactly why we have some clues why but one of the scariest images I've ever seen in my life is a solid tumor with a ring of activated T cells all around it but those T cells for some reason can't penetrate these solid tumors make substances that somehow prevent the access to T cells I guess the bigger question just to carry on the Riff on this theme a little bit um is this idea of the new human and that's a very provocative idea in this title it's called the exploration of medicine and the new human and and what I'm trying to convey in that is that the new human is not a sort of sci-fi infrared equipped um character with prosthetics and and and and vision you know what I say uh Keanu Reeves and a black MooMoo um that's not the new humans the new human is a human that we're building prosthetically in some ways which sells either their own cells that have been genetically engineered or cells that we've borrowed from other bodies as in a bone marrow transplant there's an incredible example here of a psychiatrist a woman in New York who's been pioneering and other people have two placing electrodes into the brain very deep into the brain these electrodes are thinner than human hair and finding exact spot where certain nerve cells are responsible going back to work out for devastating neurological diseases like Parkinson's but in her in her case depression um and when she turns the current on these neurons these nerve cells respond and and you get some people get relief from really recalcitant depression things that no drug and no therapy works um so these are examples of of what I call new humans these are people that are are that are walking amongst us someone with someone carrying a bone marrow from someone else's body is walking amongst us today someone carrying electrodes will start walking amongst us and that's because we are built having the capacity The Joint capacity of genetic engineering and cellular engineering has created the ability to create what I call the new human mix as well is fascinating you talk in the book book about how women exclusively women often mostly carry the cells of either unknown pregnancies or pregnancies that have resulted in in births and those cells of the child just float around their bodies or they sometimes they land and do things and actually you know looking over the audience many of you will be carrying the cells of someone who is not to you actually only the women if you're a man and carrying those cells you need to go to the doctor but isn't that again just a you know a crazy idea which which he sort of posts that 19th century bubble of of Discovery but that's right in fact there are three papers today in nature open Nature this morning the three papers in nature back to back that finally describe and that's why it's not in the book because it was published yesterday uh that finally describe how and why we can live with all these microbiota in our in our guts because if T cells are there to recognize and B cells are there to recognize pathogens then why aren't we constantly eliminating all the bugs that live inside us which are really important for us important for our digestion our you know so many functions now coming out and outnumber yeah exactly and and what was amazing about it is that until this morning we didn't know so the second edition of the song of the cell will be out soon with that added to it that's right twice as thick twice as thick and you could write again yeah yeah exactly exactly okay I am going to open it up to questions now so you can bring the lights up uh so rules for questions these are my rules um so put your hand up questions are short sentences that end with an upwards inflection and Rule is and this is based on published research this is not me being politically correct but if in question and answer sessions women ask questions first then more women ask questions but if men ask questions first then women tend not to so we'll take questions from women and men alternating your first and the third rule is try not to be mad Mind Body Connection I mean there's a lot of talk about possible cancer coming from childhood trauma and from actual thoughts what are your thoughts on that yeah I'm not a believer in it at all um I don't think the cancer comes from trauma I think uh people uh were traumatized have a hard time dealing with cancer in the sense that they often don't they can um ignore it they can have problems with it but um I don't think that that trauma can in any way directly affect our our genetics now there's one caveat to that which is that that um there is a strong relationship between inflammation and cancer very well established and a strong relationship also between inflammation and stress similarly well established the word stress is a meaningless word it means something to you it means something else to us but when I'm talking about stress and I'm talking about stress as inflammation I do think that there's a relationship between inflammation and cancer so if that's the lineage you're following I think there's a there's something very productive there um but again the word trauma is that means different things to different people it has no meaning to geneticists um and so um so I don't think that that's the reason for for cancer okay question for okay I'm gonna dot around the room so let's go uh you you you and you there's four okay so second one hit this gentleman in the third row okay uh thank you um my question was around I'm curious when you're researching this book what was the evolution of you know when you talk about these the idea of Cell Biology you know going back to this one cell Luca um how did this evolve in concert or that was perhaps stymied by a religious thought at the time you know this is happening well so can you repeat the question the question was how is the what is the intersection between this and between the evolution of cellular biology and religious thought um well vitalism was very important in in religious thought and spontaneous generation is also very important in religious thought um and so um both survivalism claims that you have this vital fluid but it's special um and in fact that vital fluid comes to you from God um at least one school of vitalists believe that not all white lists um and um and spontaneous generation is similar um in the sense that you are generated spontaneously and similarly cells are generated spontaneously um the the the interesting thing about cell theory unlike Evolution and to some extent on like genetics cell theory doesn't didn't violate at least fundamentally Christian principles and therefore was allowed to evolve I mean if you read the history it was allowed to evolve quite independently once that vitalism and and spontaneous generation were sort of set aside and it was only much much later than they they began to intersect with with religion again I'll give you one example of that and there are many um it's much later when you have IVF and you now have genetic engineering of potentially of human babies that all of a sudden embryonic stem cells much much later years almost a century later when when then when when religion all of a sudden wakes up and says wait a second so it's very unlike Evolution or at least Darwin's idea of evolution and neo-dargonism etc etc which did have a much more conflicting relationship with with religion yeah um yes I was thinking I could comment on that but I won't um well I mean obviously I think I'm not disagreeing with you at all I think I think one of the things one of the relationships one of the ways we characterize religion in this relationship with science is I think often is a sort of false dichotomy but actually religions are very um tend to be specifically judea-christian religions tend to be quite fluid in the way that they bounce in and out of scientific ideas and there was much less resistance to darwinian thinking than is often perceived in the 1850s and 60s and it's only really 50 years later that that fundamentalists in America primarily become regards evolution by natural selection is as problematic with with cells what Sid just said is absolutely correct but what I was thinking is that the injection of the Soul into the into the fertilized egg occurs at multiple times depending on which religion you're a member of and how that religion has changed over time and so as for example um Christians become more fundamental in America the in solidification what's the word not in solarification let's go with internifications occurs at at fertilization and that's new that's a that's a new description that is really less than you know 40 years old so religion is much more flexible than than doctrinal um so so those relationships are always always changing that was just what I was thinking as you were answering anyway

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: iAm0KHgFwTM (https://youtu.be/iAm0KHgFwTM) ===

Hello, good evening, and welcome. I'm Susan Engel. I have the privilege of being the executive producer of 92Y Talks, and I'm delighted to see so many of you with us for our very special evening. We are deeply honored to co-present tonight's high-level discussion on the search for immortality with the Institute for Cross-Disciplinary Engagement at Dartmouth. The Institute and its generous support through the Templeton Foundation have allowed us to bring you this evening the best of the best for an important conversation that promises to open our minds and expand our thinking. As a community center, your participation is important to us, and I invite you to submit your questions on the cards that the ushers have handed out. They will be collected midway through our program. I'm now thrilled to welcome back to this stage our moderator and the driving force behind tonight's event. Marcelo Gleiser is the Appleton Professor of natural philosophy and professor of physics and astronomy at Dartmouth. He is also the author of over 100 scientific papers, countless essays, and five books. He is the director of the Institute for Cross-Disciplinary Engagement at Dartmouth. As a world-renowned physicist with an uncanny ability to explain complex terms in ways we all can understand, he is a frequent presence in science and religion documentaries in the US and abroad, and the co-founder and contributed to contributor of the National Public Radio blog 13.7 on science and culture and how it intersects. Um before he frames our discussion and joins us, I would like you to watch this brief video about the institute. Thank you. The world is a complex place, a network of flowing information and changing patterns, where forces known and unknown generate the most sublime beauty and the most terrifying destruction. The world inspires wonder and doubt, and we humans try to make sense of it all, creating stories, theories, symphonies, and poems. I'm Marcelo Gleiser, director of the Institute for Cross-Disciplinary Engagement at Dartmouth, or ICE. On behalf of all of us at ICE and our partners, I invite you to be a part of our institute, to be a part of this very essential conversation. What is the nature of reality? What is the future of humanity? Will machines think? Will and should we become immortal? Is there free will? Are we alone in the universe? Can science be a path towards spirituality? ICE was created to address these issues and establish new bridges between different ways of knowing. Our mission is to overcome old bigotries and facilitate a constructive dialogue between intellectuals and the general public, creating a community of citizens concerned with the common good, engaging experts, promoting public dialogue, and offering open access courses. One thing is certain, the hardest questions ask for different viewpoints, for a cross-disciplinary approach, for intellectual openness. The sciences and the humanities need one another now more than ever, and we need them both. Hello everyone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much for being here. I bet there are repeaters. Um, so this is our third engagement here at the 92nd Street Y. If you're at 2 years ago, we started this with a night on this nature of consciousness with Antonio Damasio and David Chalmers. Last year, we had one on the nature of faith with uh Rebecca Goldstein and Alan Lightman. And tonight, we have something on immortality and or mortality because obviously you can't think of one without the other. So, in order to do that, I thought that would be very interesting to have a conversation on the different scales in which we can think about the problem, right? So, we can of course think about about it from a human scale. Now, we are all animals that uh have this very perplexing dilemma that we are self-aware and that we know that our life in this planet is of a limited time. And so, we have this combination, you know, I can say like this uh superposition of two tendencies which tend to be quite different, which is on the one hand we are animals, you know, we have hair and nails that grow, we reproduce like mammals most mammals do. And yet we can conceive of the infinite, we can think about transcendence, we can think about change and transformation, and we know who we are. At least we know we are alive and we have an understanding of what that means, right? So in 1973, um the cultural anthropologist Ernest Becker wrote a book which won a Nobel Prize uh the excuse me, the Pulitzer Prize in uh 1974 called The Denial of Death. And in this book he explores precisely this issue, right? How do we find meaning knowing that we have these two extremes pulling us somewhat apart, you know, the animal nature, the demigod kind of nature, right? And it's a very complicated conversation. And at about the same time in the 1970s, the first models of climate change were being developed. And the realization that there was a human impact on the weather was becoming more and more obvious to those who are studying this. So you can think of mortality or the extension of life, immortality, from a human scale to a planetary scale. And tonight I am incredibly proud to have two leading thinkers on these topics. Siddhartha Mukherjee and Elizabeth Kolbert. So let me introduce them and they'll join me here on stage. So the way the night goes is essentially like this. So each one of them will talk for about 15 or 20 minutes. Then we will talk among amongst each other, you know, I'll ask them questions, they may have questions to one another for another 15 or 20 minutes. Then we're going to open for Q&A from you. Okay? And there is a procedure for that. I think uh you have cards uh something like that that you write on. I don't know exactly the details. And then we are going to address your questions. And then after that, we have a second part to the evening, which are more informal. Basically, we go back stage and not back this way, but back that way into a room where there'll be some drinks as far as I understand. And there will be an there will be an opportunity for us and for you to talk at a different kind of level, not from stage to audience, but from the same kind of level. Be sitting next to you and we can have this conversation together. If you have other questions that weren't addressed during the official time, so to speak. Now, let me ask you something. You hopefully got a survey as you came in. And to us, because this is a grant-based program, right? We I got this grant to promote this connection between the humanities and the sciences from the Templeton Foundation, I need to show them that people care by answering the survey. So, please, if you want this to happen and keep happening again, hopefully next year again here for our fourth year, please do fill the survey and somebody will be collecting that on the outside. All right. So, without much ado, let me introduce our two speakers. So, Elizabeth Kolbert has been a staff writer at The New Yorker since 1999. Her three-part series on global warming, The Climate of Man, won the 2006 National Magazine Award for public interest among other honors. She received a Lannan Literary Fellowship in 2006 and a Heinz Award in 2010 and won the 2010 National Magazine Award for Reviews and Criticism. She is the author of The Prophet of Love and Other Tales of Power and Deceit, Field Notes from a Catastrophe, which is now available in paperback, and finally The Sixth Extinction, for which she won the 2015 Pulitzer Prize for general non-fiction. So, everybody, please welcome Elizabeth to stage. Elizabeth. Thank you. So, you Well, I think all the way to the other side. Yeah. Yeah. And then I have Siddhartha Mukherjee, who is a pioneering physician, oncologist, and author. A very influential voice in the scientific community. He's best known for his books, The Emperor of All Maladies, A Biography of Cancer, which earned him the 2011 Pulitzer Prize, and The Gene, An Intimate History, which was recognized by the Washington Post and The New York Times as one of the most influential books of 2016. The Emperor of All Maladies was adapted into a documentary by Ken Burns and included among Time's 100 best non-fiction books of the past century. So, Sid, please join us. Thank you. Good. Very good. So, we now we're going to start and the first one to speak will be Sid tonight. So, Sid, take it on and Well, thank you very much for uh picking such a easy topic I know. to start with. Small moderate topic. Um I thought I would begin with um a thought experiment. Um and the thought experiment goes like this. Um If you were in the uh sitting in the 1850s, um you and you ask the question, "What is it like to get old?" Uh what is it like to live beyond 50 years old? Someone might say to you it's a horrible life. Your teeth fall out. Your hair degenerates, your skin degenerates. It's a terrible thing, and what we should really do is respect human boundaries and dignity and let people die quietly at 50. Um it fast forward a few years, and all of a sudden those realities, your skin degenerating, your hair degenerating, your body, your mind falling apart, starts to change because all of a sudden we begin to make important advances, scientific advances, cultural advances, advances in public health hygiene, when all of a sudden 50 isn't a boundary. And that same person who told you, you know, why not just give up at 50? Terrible life out there. Um would start saying, well, actually now 60s sounds good. And so on and so forth. 60s become 70s. So, there are two strands in our understanding of longevity of the body. One strand constantly reminding us that death and aging and uh the end is nothing but inevitable, and that's of course true. But on the other hand, another strand pushing and saying, well, what's inevitable about it? What is it about certain organisms live much longer. There's no, you know, what are the biological limits? Well, the biological limits are defined by what we want to understand and how we want to push them. So, I think that there is as as a physician, as an oncologist, as someone works in cancer, you feel both these strands. And it's important to remember that the two strands exist. Absolutely true. It's absolutely true that there is a kind of collapse of dignity when you begin to say, you know, let's all live till till 100, and that changes and distorts certain ways of thinking about culture. But on the other hand, let's not forget that as I said 100 years ago, people would say living beyond 50 was a horrible life. So, with that as a kind of background, um I thought I would propose to you, um three potential visions of longevity or immortality, um and they're quite different from each other, and they have each one has a very different consequence about how we think about human future. Um the first one is the most traditional one. And that's the one that we've grown up with in a kind of cultural sense. And that's simple. It's It's It's immortality viewed in the in the negative or in the double negative. And that's simply, if you killed all the killers, you would achieve infinite longevity or at least true longevity. This is the stuff that I came into my sort of professional life, my scientific life. Take diseases away. Um remove uh cancer, heart disease, um and other other such diseases. Uh infectious diseases in the last um so-called you know, if you look at the If you look at human history, it's an astonishing history in the last 100 years because um the conquest of communicable diseases, so-called infectious diseases, um lengthened uh human lives, human longevity, whether that conquest was through public health measures or or however we achieved them, a mixture of things, mostly public health and hygiene, some vaccination, of course, some use of antibiotics uh among among those things. That changed the epidemiology of human disease. We would all Most of us would be dead in this in this audience. We would be all long gone. Um uh 100 120 years uh odd years ago. Uh virtually none of us would be here, actually. Um So, um and then the the the epidemiology, the face of human disease began to shift and become uh more and more focused on these so-called non-communicable diseases. So much so that it feels these days that the division of the world between non-communicable diseases and communicable diseases, infectious and non-infectious diseases, is a little bit like saying mammals can be divided into cows and non-cows. Um that's because the category of non-cows, non-communicable diseases, heart disease, cancer, even in countries that you wouldn't imagine uh even in parts of the world where you would think that the burden of communicable diseases is enormous, the pattern is shifting so dramatically um that there's an expectation, for instance, in a country like just to pick one out of the hat, Tanzania, um more people will die from hyp- the complications of hypertension than they will die of the complications of various infectious diseases in 10 years. That's one one kind of uh one kind of So, this gives you sense of the changing nature of epidemiology. So, but to go back to the question, if you kill all the killers, um if you remove the uh uh constraints or the barriers to long life, that you would actually in increase human longevity uh enormously. And of course, there's a truth to that. But then came a second vision, which began to appear, um and it comes from a variety of sources. Uh and I'll name I'll talk about the sources. It turns out that if you look at people who have extreme longevity, people who live 120 years, 118, 108, 110. What's interesting about those people is that they are not killed by killers. They, in fact, are dying from diseases that we don't think of as diseases. So, they, for instance, die of peculiar forms of bacterial sepsis. Their immune system collapses. Um they sometimes die of broken bones. Um My laboratory, actually, we study bone for we found stem cells that make bones. There's this project that we're doing right now to try to find people with extreme longevity to ask the question, what happens to stem cells in their bone? We discovered these stem cells some years ago. We're trying to put them in back into human beings. Um they make stem They make bone and cartilage, among other things. Um so um So, the second idea is that, sure, you can remove you can take away the killers. You can kill the killers. But, there may be changes that prospectively, outside removing the killers, there may be genetic or biological, epigenetic, or other changes that would allow us to extend human longevity without focusing on the killers. So, in other words, there are genes or diets or bionic mechanisms by which you could alter your lifespan in a positive way. So, imagine I would find a a a gene in in in in a small animal um that um increases longevity enormously. Um and such genes have been found. Interestingly, many of them have to do with the way we regulate metabolism. Um many of them have to have a very careful There's a very careful balance between those genes and the capacity of of them to tip into cancer. Um and so um there's a very very tricky balance, but occasionally you can find genetic means of changing the limits of human longevity. And one interesting consequence that arises out of that is to say, well, forget about killing all the killers, maybe we should be tampering with human genomes so that we can increase longevity. I would say we were talking about this a little bit before in trans, which means that they suppress all the other effects. They would override any other effects and it would be non-disease specific. It's not as if you would they would essentially override the effects of of diseases. And such do such genes exist? Yes, they exist in other animals. They exist in worms and in flies. You can make worms that are three live three times longer than other worms. Um, often these genetic means cluster along pathways, um, along very particular ways. Often they cluster around metabolic, uh, pathways. Um, and you know, for a long time you would imagine that these alterations, unless all of a sudden there appeared a genetic mutation, a genetic variation in humans that would spontaneously arise and that could give that kind of longevity, you would imagine it would be very hard to tamper with this physiology. Um, certainly you can tamper with the physiology in other animals, worms as I said before. Um, and now one thing we'll talk a little bit about with new genetic tools, um, it's possible to tamper with the human genome, um, in principle. And when you do that, again, remember you can do it in two ways. You can remove the natural you may you can remove constrainers. Um, and we can we'll talk a little bit about that. But also you can um change in a positive direction. You can not just remove the constraints, you can influence in a positive direction just like in small animals. And here the world splits into generally speaking two kinds of camps. Um one camp would suggest that longevity and all these complex traits um are so complicated that there'll be many many genes and possibly across so that just to give you a sense of what the scope of the problem is. If you um were to take the human genome and you were to uh print it out um in standard print format um it would be about a single human genome would be a 66 full volumes of the Encyclopedia Britannica. So um this room wall-to-wall up all over would be Elizabeth's genome. Um and and in the past of course it was largely inscrutable. So this is written in just four letters. It would be if you opened up one volume it would read ACTGCTT TGCs That's not I'm making it up. I didn't memorize the sequence but um So in the past our capacity to read that information was extraordinarily limited. Um you could say on page in volume 36 on page 72 um I have a genetic sequence that encodes for the cystic fibrosis gene. And if you change this letter to that letter you can go from a normal cystic fibrosis gene to an abnormal one. And if you have two copies of that and so forth and you could make some conclusions about it. So these were single genetic changes which we could map on to human traits, diseases, and so forth. Now, um we are getting to a place where we're actually beginning to read this information with in a powerfully uh in a powerful manner. This is I call this reading. Um just to give you a sense of how powerful that can be and how disruptive um that can be. Um I just read a paper uh 2 weeks ago, still in preprint, uh where they took um human height as a characteristic. Um Now, height's a very interesting characteristic because we know it's highly heritable. Tall parents tend to have tall kids. Shorter parents tend to have shorter kids. This was known for a long time. But for decades, people had been trying to find so-called a gene for height, single genes for height. And for most human variation, um they were very hard to find. Um and we knew that they were probably um tens of thousands of variations only 20,000 genes, but the lettering is very wide. So, there were tens of thousands of human variations that would explain ultimately each with small effect um that would explain height. Um the problem, of course, was that in order to decipher that, you would have to have uh you have to create a compendium of all human beings and all their heights, find all their genome sequences, and try to find a machine, a computer, or an algorithm that would correlate one with the other. And there was not all of these resources didn't exist. But it turns out now they do exist. And this particular paper um uses a a powerful computational algorithm um to predict human height from genetic information alone. Take away malnutrition, that's a very important constraint. This is assuming no malnutrition, assuming no environmental change, we'll come back to that in a second, uh from human genetic information alone. Now, think about that for a second. That means that in principle, you would be able to predict the height of your unborn fetus before that child was ever born. You would know what height they would attain. And now think about extending this potentially to other attributes. Um color of hair, the color of your skin, um and all of a sudden you've gone into territory which I think all of us would feel a little uncomfortable with. Um longevity uh rides along similar principles. We don't have fundamental notions about it, but it would be very, very clear that the heritable part of longevity, the part that can be inherited, um will begin to be solved and in fact that's a project going on right now. Um this is the great one of the great biobank projects of longevity. So, then we will be able to read longevity. And if there are genes which very strongly influence longevity, or if there are genes that very strongly influence longevity in a negative direction, we should we can potentially change those. Um there happens to be one already, a big candidate, uh a gene that increases your risk for neurological syndromes, uh Alzheimer's disease, neurodegenerative diseases, called ApoE, um and someone like George Church and others um have made a compelling argument, why not take it away from the human genome? Uh why not remove that? Why live with this constraint if you don't have to live with this constraint? So, that would be the second vision of of uh longevity longevity tipping into far edges of mortality. It's not immortality, but far edges. And then the last one um is perhaps the most intriguing one. I've been thinking about this as a thought experiment for a long time and wondering and I the question that I posed myself a while ago was could there be a soft version of immortality? Could we hack it? And by that I mean not inventing crazy new tools, but what if someone gave me the toolkit of what's available. Could I make a kind of soft immortality possible? And I began to think about the following experiment, thought experiment. Um I'm going to write kind of a I'm going to write more about it because I've been thinking more and more about it. So, let's say I I here's the thought experiment. Let's say I um let's say I used you, Elizabeth, as an example. Um we are quite confident that we could clone you. Um So, um you can clone most mammals. Um that It's not easy, but within limits, I think the possibility of cloning is becoming more and more more and more clear. And if it's not cloning, we could even do a soft version of cloning and we would derive in which we would derive sperm and eggs from your normal cells, combine them, and basically recreate a soft version of a clone. Um So, it wouldn't be the Dolly version of the clone, which is more complicated in which you have to take a another nucleus, uh sorry, another cell out, suck up the nucleus and reinject it with your nucleus, thereby creating a clone. We could do it a bunch of different ways. You could recreate basically sperm and eggs in principle from someone's cells and then combine them again. So, let's assume for a second that we would be able to do the cloning piece of it. And then here's the experiment, which is that what what struck me was that the cost of digital recording of all your experiences um is diminishing so dramatically that you could basically wear a GoPro um and walk around. Um and you could edit your GoPro. You could edit your GoPro as you aged and you could say, "These memories were really significant for me. You know, that time I went to Rio and sat on the beach, that moment I experienced that glacier, etc." So, my question was, "What if we began to clone ourselves and then give our clones the capacity" and this is not even fancy technology. I'm not talking about brain interfaces. I'm just saying give them a GoPro. Give them a quick GoPro lesson on your life. Um in which they would absorb and perhaps even experience the what you thought were the fundamentally important pieces of you. So you would have yourself in a second generation now absorbing pieces of you. What's interesting about the experiment is that it's infinitely repeatable. Your clone makes a clone, gives a GoPro to the clone, etc. etc. etc. And of course information is lost. It's not going to be your life. But I just keep wondering about this idea. It haunts me a lot. I mean, what if I would do that? Would it alleviate some concerns that I have about my end? I would end, but you know, very important pieces of me would be left over. A genetic copy would be left over. A true genetic copy would be left over. And, you know, things I treasured, my my most important memories would be here. So anyway, it's dystopic, of course, but you know, yesterday's dystopias are tomorrow's old news. So um there's there's a quality about this that makes you think. I mean, this is a thought experiment, but makes you think about And then the question, of course, will becomes well, what happens to human population then? How do we crisscross? So I'm going to stop there. That's kind of a broad introduction, but those were my three visions of of longevity tipping into the edges of immortality. That's great. Thank you very much. And now we go for the macro view. Yeah, speaking of um dystopia, um So that was like a perfect right, a perfect perfect um lead-in and I um am supposed to I guess represent the humanities here. I'm up here with two scientists and the humanities always are you know, get the short end of the stick, the bum end of the stick. Um and so I'm going to I'm going to talk about, you know, since he talked about immortality, and I I'm going to I'm going to really flip that around and I think that there are there is a really interesting conversation. It's not a conversation, maybe it's a it's something much worse than that. How's that? We can a brawl. Um And and that is I'm going to talk about um what human humans have meant to the rest, you know, that that we don't really know how many species um exactly there are on the planet. The rough estimates are about 10 million. Um we have named maybe 1.5 million of them, so there's a lot of life out there that uh we sort of know from statistical tools are out there, but we really don't know what it is um still at this point in 2018. Um but we know that we're you know, destroying it uh pretty rapidly and the um The reasons for this, you know, I I have a lot to do. They're the the the flip side uh of our tremendous success at staving off disease, at reproducing, at feeding ourselves, uh all the things that have brought us to the point where we're there now 7.6 uh billion people on the planet hitting very rapidly. Um you know, we'll hit eight in the next couple uh couple of years actually. Um and if you want to know exactly, you can go there's like a world population clock and you can watch that thing spin around by the you know, not just by the one or two or three, but by the 10,000s, you know, every every few minutes. Um as as our population grows. So um What are the So I I I wrote you know, I I wrote a this book about this idea that we are causing uh a mass extinction. So so what is a mass extinction? A mass extinction is a is a very simple concept. Um it's just considered a a period of time, a short period of time, relatively short on a geological scale uh when a lot of the diversity of the planet, for whatever reason, crashes and um this idea that there's a sixth extinction obviously implies there've have five previous ones. There have been, lo and behold, the first occurred 440 million years ago during a period known as the Ordovician period when when life was still largely confined to the water. So, about 3/4 of all marine species died out and very few on land cuz there were very few on land. And the most familiar one of these mass extinctions is the fifth, um which did in the dinosaurs 66 million years ago. And there's a pretty broad scientific consensus now uh that that one was caused by an asteroid. And for a long time people tried to find common themes in these extinctions, you know, is there one reason why they happen? They happen at irregular periods. Um and no one has found yet, you know, the key, what causes a mass extinction. Um but the general sort of theme of them is that the world changes in some way faster than evolution can keep up with, right? So, so it all does boil down to genetics. Um so if I'm a you know, a worm or a plant, I can only keep up with environmental change by either I have enough plasticity, you know, I have enough adaptability. If I if I can't go here, I go there. If I can't use this food source, I go that food source. So, all organisms have a certain amount of plasticity. Um but the other way I adapt by my make a big adaptation is is is through, you know, mutations, through genetic through evolution, right? I evolve. I become a new creature. And that's, you know, propelled life throughout the last 3 and 1/2, you know, billion years or so. So, if things change really fast and I don't have the plasticity and I can't evolve fast enough, uh the end is near. That's that's the end of the line uh for my species. And what are we humans doing? Uh we've sort of transcended evolution in a really really important sense. And this gets to a lot of the things that Sid was talking about. We don't wait around to evolve, right? If we if we have a new pathogen, when you go to get, you know, a flu shot, right? That flu evolved into a new virus, but you got the vaccine and you skipped that evolutionary step, right? So, the flu didn't just kill off everyone who wasn't immune to it. We jumped over that. And that's and that's why we've we've done so well, why we've extended our own lives, why we're we're so successful. But the flip side of that are these massive changes that we are making to the planet on a on a geological scale. I'm sure everyone in this room has heard this concept that we're in a new geological epoch, the Anthropocene. An epoch is actually to a geologist a very small amount of time. There have been many people who believe we're in a new geological period. So, the last we're, you know, we're in the um What are we in? The Neogene or something like that? But we we we may be in a whole new period of time, a very big geological divide because we have so we're changing the planet on such a scale and such at such a rate and at such a scale. So, I'm just going to throw out a couple of the ways we're doing that. Unfortunately, I could spend all night talking about how we're doing that, but I I will not. I will turn this over to a conversation. We're changing the climate really fast. We're putting up CO2 really, really fast into the atmosphere, perhaps as fast as, you know, has ever happened in Earth's history. um And when you think about it, it makes sense. It's really hard to put CO2 into the air, right? So, all the fossil fuels that we are burning are just carbon that a plant absorbed during its lifetime. The plant died and for complicated geological reasons didn't decompose, but became a fossil fuel. That process took hundreds of millions of years and we are now digging up those stores of fossil fuels. We're burning them, let's say, in a matter of a couple of centuries. So, that's really, really rapid and if people weren't here, how could that be happening? Uh we're acidifying the oceans. That same CO2 that we're throwing up into the air that's changing the climate is changing the chemistry of the oceans. Um we are very rapidly altering the surface of the earth when we go in, you know, to the Amazon or or you know, when people came to the US and mowed down the prairies and planted corn. That's a monoculture. That's a place where very, very few um creatures can survive. Everyone's heard about, you know, monarchs are crashing monarch butterfly populations. That's because, you know, we go in to what was used to be their habitat. We just mow it down, put down herbicides, plant corn and there's just nothing for them to eat. It's as simple as that. Um other ways, we are moving things around the world. This one doesn't get as much attention as it probably should. Um but, you know, over the vast span of evolutionary time, uh you know, the continents have divided. Um all the continents used to be squished together um about 250 million years ago into a continent called we call Pangea. Then the continents split apart. The world as we know it came into being. Evolutionary lineages have been evolving separately for tens of millions of years and then we bring them together, right? You got a you know, you got a Africa after someone from Africa comes here. Um you know, all you got to Asia, vice versa. We're moving, we're moving goods around, we're moving people around, we're moving viruses around, we're moving fungi around and just to give one really local example of what happens uh is people have probably heard of a white nose syndrome killing bats all across the US. That was a fungal disease, a fungus brought over from Europe, probably totally unwittingly by someone that's just killed um millions and millions of bats. So, often times um when people try to date when did the anthropocene begin, uh they use one date, you know, that is used as a beginning of the use of fossil fuels, and another is post-war when human population really, really took off. Um so, all of these questions of what what we're going to do, you know, to enhance our own lives, um unfortunately, are coming at the expense of all these other species with whom we share the planet. And that is I unfortunately have come to believe a pretty inevitable conflict cuz there's only there's only a certain amount of space and there's only a certain amount of resources uh on planet Earth. Um and then, just to bring things full circle, and then I'll hand it back over to Marcelo, you know, there's going to be all these questions, "Well, we killed off this, we killed off that. Can we bring it back? You know, can we use its genome? We now are so sophisticated, uh we can just take uh you know, people have mapped the genome of the Neanderthal. Can we Can we recreate a Neanderthal, right? Just reprogram a human cell to be a Neanderthal or an elephant cell to be a mammoth?" Uh those questions, uh if we're all around in a technologically advanced society like today's, uh 100 years from now, which I'm not 100% sure of, uh are going to be very, very urgent. Um and and we'll we'll be debating them very, very heatedly. So, with that, I'm going to That's great. Thank you very much. So, so Elizabeth, so so maybe this GoPro clone thing is not so bad. Just get one. Just get one one yourself. Yeah, you one one of yourself. No kids. Okay, shrinking population. Yeah. That's that's Yeah. Well, look, we could we could combine forces. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. So, so I think that's great because you kind of nailed it. There's a There's a clear tension between these two narratives here, right? If on on the one hand, there is science as the conqueror of all maladies, including death, view viewed perhaps as a disease that can be cured in some way, right? And let's do that. And and I have a somewhat very visceral version to to scientism, the idea that science actually has answers to all questions cuz it does not, for sure. Uh and and it's highly debatable, I think, if death is something that we can really deal with for many reasons, even invoking physics and the second law of thermodynamics. I mean, in sense of every time you solve a problem, every time you kill one of the killers, other killers show up, right? I mean, this has been you you are one of the best historians of medicine around, and you know this is true. And the question is, can we ever can this ever end, you know, is this just part of the way life manifests itself, right? But there is this idea that science has the here. And then, on the other hand, as you said, you know, there is the other narrative, which is destruction. You know, we as a species, in order to be so many, and in order to live well, you know, the first thing we need is energy, is environment, and that obviously has a tremendous cost, right? And to me, and this is a question I have for both of you, you know, it's because I have no idea how to answer that. When you talk to people about these things, and I'm sure you both have, I mean, Elizabeth, when you talk about the sixth extinction, and you put data in front of people, and and and you discuss this with educated people, and they understand it, but they don't change. Why not? To me, that's mind-boggling. Well, I think when you Unfortunately, the more, you know, you you You know, I I One thing I want to say, too, is that is that this is not maybe not really an answer, but um you know, people have been at this project for for a really long time, this overcoming of evolution. And I I I think there's, you know, it would be called debated but most I think scientists once again I'm going to defer to scientists would say, you know, humans did in the mega fauna. The mega fauna extinction was really early on so humans arrived, you know, in Australia 50 or even 60,000 years ago. There was a huge wave of extinction of large animals. They arrived in in in North America, you know, probably 15, 20,000 years ago. There was a big wave of extinctions. We no longer have, you know, mammoths or mastodons running around New York though we have plenty of skeletons of them. Um So, you know, it's not something that um you know, it's it's a it's a project I I think unfortunately we we've been at a long time and it's just that our tools have gotten a lot better and now when we we when you think about the pace of change right now, right? Your iPhone, your you know, everything has been collected from somewhere on the planet and has had an impact somewhere on the planet. And so, you know, the changes that are required when you have 7.6 billion people on the planet, even if you just said everyone is simply going to you know, needs to eat. That's basic requirement is sort of basic human rights. And these things come into, you know, really serious conflict pretty pretty quickly. Now, if you said, let's do our best, our absolute best. We would like everyone on the earth, you know, to have a decent life and we would like we would still like to preserve as much of the rest of the planet as possible. Um sort of the best proposal I've seen for that uh is is comes from E.O. Wilson and he has a a book called Half Earth that we should sort of put aside half of the of the land surface of the earth uh aside for other creatures. And I think that's a really important uh idea. Um but it turns out, you know, a multinational project like that, it's really really hard to even get it talked about. Of course. Yeah. Yeah, I I think it's something to do with the amount of pressure that people respond to at the individual level, you know, and and unless there is enough pressure, the threshold you you haven't gotten to that threshold yet and you will not do anything. You won't take shorter showers, you won't you know, eat less meat, whatever it is, even if you know that there is a cost to all of that. And and it's an interesting reflection to understand what will it take for people to do something at the not at the governmental level, but at the individual level because um we have power as customers and I think there is a whole emerging idea of corporate ethics now where some corporations are beginning to understand that, "Hey, if you don't like a company, you stop buying their products and they have to change." And so, you know, you have uh some companies that you wouldn't expect getting organic products out there and stuff like that. But it's just a reflection that I think we should we should have um And you know, in this conversation, you can always interrupt and ask questions to one another, too. I don't want to monopolize. I have a a ton of things I would like to ask you both. Um okay, I'll ask uh I'll ask you and I'll say something about the dis- discussion about the ethics of gene manipulation. You know, where are we with that conversation? So, um well, let's talk about the technology first and then let's talk a little bit about the ethics of of genetic manipulation. Again, the the background is this is this reading and writing paradigm. So, remember, we are now becoming progressively, particularly with computational um powers, becoming progressively able to read, um make sense of this encyclopedia, 66 volumes of the encyclopedia. And then comes the question of writing. And for a long time, as many of you know, the writing piece of it, changing the human genome perspective, which would be essentially saying go to page 66 and change erase the word uh you know ACGT ACGT and change it into CCGT and that might mean changing a gene like a mutation in the breast cancer causing BRCA1 gene and making it the non breast cancer causing so called normal variant or the wild type variant. Um So, that was it was that that project was very badly stuck for for very good reason. So, the and the the reasons are very deep and and biologically very deep. So, the biologically they're deep because as you can imagine um anytime you take information away from any genome um is is is a cellular crisis. Cells are are extraordinarily sensitive to their genomes being tampered for a good reason because they when that happens the consequences are usually quite severe. Cancer is one of the major consequences that a mutation that eventually causes cancer. So, cells we now know we're now knowing more and more so we've discovered some of this in our lab and other labs have many many labs have been have been working on this. Cells are extraordinarily sensitive to these kinds of changes and in general they were very hard to deliver. The the the wormhole and again this goes back to taking control of evolution, rapid control of evolution. The wormhole came from a very unusual place and it was not expected. The wormhole came from bacteria my the microbial world and and it came because of evolution. It came because in the microbial world the resources are often so restrictive and there's a constant cat and mouse game between microbes to compete and with each other. So, in the microbial world, what what happened um many many many many years ago is that um some bacteria began to be invaded by viruses. Um we've reconstructed all of this, by the way. We don't know if this was this is true. It's mostly reconstructed. Bacteria became began to be invaded by viruses. Viruses are um parasites. You can think about them they use the bacterial cell to make more copies of themselves. They're not living in this in the traditional sense. They they parasitize the vi- the bacteria's body, this genetic apparatus, etc. to make more copies of itself. That's what a virus is. So, bacte- So, we knew all this, but what we began to understand is that bacteria have a counter evolution mechanism. And they evolved a mechanism basically to detect the DNA of the virus and make a cut in it. Uh chop it up. Um and the field sat there for a long time. Uh this idea that scientists began to recognize that some bacteria um would could have a recognition sequence. They could recognize a virus sequence. And deliver in a a a directed chop, not to any other part of their own genome. That was protected. It was specific for a sequence. And I'm going to rephrase exactly what I said. In other words, the bacteria could recognize ACTCCGTTTT and chop that section. ACTGCGTTTT. Obviously, if you think a little bit ahead, you could say to yourself, "Well, if the vir- if the bacteria can do that, what if I reengineered the bacteria, put it into a human cell, and now said, 'Instead of going and chopping the virus, why don't you go chop the human genome?'" ACT as far as the bacterial apparatus is concerned, it can't tell whether it's a virus or a human genome. It has no fundamental mechanism to tell. And in fact, that's what has happened. In the last 5 years, we have co-opted this bacterial immune system, which is an antiviral system, um to chop up or to be directly go to page 66 in the encyclopedia Britannica of humans of and and go and make a directed change uh in in the human genome genetic material. Now, human cells haven't given up. They are still protesting. They're saying, "No, no, no, wait a second. I'm not ready." Um and sometimes they shut themselves down. So, we're now but but but the technology is extraordinarily simple. Um because you know, I could tell you that it would take a postdoc in my laboratory to make a directed genetic change in a human stem cell. It would take on the order of weeks to months. It now takes 2 days. Uh and virtually all of them work. And this is CRISPR. This is CRISPR, yes. But I I I I I have a I have a question, so but once you're once I had a an infant or adult, right? I I can't change all of their cells, right? So, I have to go at the moment of conception in there? So, there three So, that's and that that this is this is very important question. So, there three kinds of changes um and and we should know about all three of them. So, one of them it is making changes in all other organisms. So, this is making using CRISPR to make modified crops, modified animals, etc. etc. There you would change, presumably, the sperm and eggs. Actually, you won't to change the sperm and eggs. You would change the stem cells that make sperm and eggs. Um and the the big debate there with Now, we're coming back to your essential question. The big ethical debate there is the debate about diversity, biosafety. That's the central debate and this, of course, goes very much into what things that you think a lot about, Elizabeth. The second one, the second arena, broader arena, is making changes in human cells, but not in sperm and eggs, as long as they're non-sperm and eggs. So, like blood-forming stem cells, like stem cells that make pancreas, the stem cells that make skin, etc. I'm using the word stem cells because you make the change and you let the cells propagate the change in the body. So, there the big safety is concerns about possible consequences in the person that this that receives the receives the cells, the biggest one of them being cancer. Cancer, cancer, cancer, cancer, cancer, basically. That the second number two, and number one and number two are already being done. We will find the first CRISPR-based therapies in the next We are working on them ourselves actively. We will find them in the next 5 years. Changing human stem cells using CRISPR-like technologies is here. Um it is now yesterday's news as far as science is concerned. The human experiment needs to be done. We don't think that it will be they will cause cancer in the sense that people are worried about. Maybe there'll be some Uh so so this is a very active area, lots of debate around this. The third one, which is the most obviously the most challenging one, the one that's most debated, is um making changes in sperm and eggs, uh or rather stem cells that make sperm and eggs. And if you take that, the third uh arena, um this is different from all the other two because this change is permanently heritable through the human genome. That This is a prospective change. Technologically, there's no fundamental reason it cannot be done. Um and the most surprising piece, and then we I'll stop, the most surprising piece that's emerged in the last 3 years, at least to me, is that we had thought that uh uh you know, big groups were put together, National Academy and National Institute was put together, a conference. We had thought that they would say absolutely not for human genetic change. In fact, what they said is for diseases that have extraordinary suffering in humans, um that we should be allowed to explore this arena for human beings. Um, that was the first recommendation. This will change. This is an evolving conversation. But, that was a big line in the sand that we have just about we are going to be able to cross. We're going to say that for diseases that cause extraordinary human suffering, uh, potentially a gene like APOE, we should be able to, um, we should be able to make a prospective genetic change in human sperm and eggs. Um, this is a wide debate. This is not going to close tomorrow. Um, but, uh, that's where the that's where we're sitting right now. It's interesting that this is, I think, the 200th anniversary of the publication of Frankenstein. Uh-huh. Which was a cautionary tale precisely about, you know, how far science can go without messing things up big time, right? Because, you know, everybody watches the movie, but if you read the novel, and I can't see you right now, but I wonder how many would raise their hand saying, "Did you read the novel, you know?" And the novel is about the monster not being like Mr. A B Normal in the brain, but actually being a genius, having the the the brain of a genius, and begging the the doctor, Victor Frankenstein, for a companion, a female companion. And then, when the doctor realizes that his experiment first worked and second could create a a race of of of monsters which are much more powerful, stronger, and brighter than humans, he panics. And hence comes the drama. So, you know, it's a it The reason why I bring this up is first because it's you have to in a night like this, but also because imagine that we get there, right? That we can do this. And, you know, you can put as much legislation as you want, you know, in scientific practice, but it's a bit of a Pandora's Box, you know? Once a scientific idea is out in the world, you just can't put it back in. And there will be groups that will be doing it for the wrong reasons. Right? And some groups will be doing it because they can pay to do it. And so, you know, because the therapies may be very expensive, and so you start having a sort of uh unevenness in society of those that can take advantage of that and have their kids be super smart, super beautiful, super etc. You know, and those that can't. And you go into the Brave New World scenario. Yeah, there's but just to just to temper some of that. I mean, you know, there It's temperamental. It's there are many I mean, just to temper it very clearly. You know, as I said, there are there is a substantial camp of people who correctly believe that tempering with human and animal genomes is going to be fundamentally restricted by the fact that typical traits that we want to influence are are run through tens of thousands of loci in the human genome. And changing so and you can't you basically you cannot use CRISPR in that sense. You can't tell CRISPR You get into a numerical problem. You can't tell CRISPR to change tens of thousands of you know, CRISPR evolved, as I said, uh to make very directed changes in very directed loci in the human genome. Now, there is a smaller other camp that says that's not true. It says that sure, there could be tens of thousands of variations in the human genome that influence a single trait, but somewhere along there either that you could create a synthetic gene Yeah. completely outside a biological known by biology or there is a natural gene variant which will override all of this we we talk about overriding genes. And we've seen examples of I'll give you one great example of that. Height is controlled by tens of thousands of loci, maybe hundreds of thousands of loci across the human genome, and yet one gene, like the Marfan syndrome gene can override all of many of these and cause extreme extreme changes in human height. Uh I can give you several other examples examples of this. These this second camp um believes that that there'll be more examples of that. And in fact, the most perhaps the most challenging example is that in animal studies, we now know that maze-solving cognitive abilities of animals very poor measure ultimately, but but some things capture some cognitive ability of an animal. Again, controlled by tens of thousands of genes. Um and yet, actually only a couple by influencing two or three of them, you can get a maze-solving animal genius. Um so, if you now translate that into the human world, you all of a sudden get So, so so let me just to temper a little bit. There are camps out there. I would say the latter camp is a minority. The former camp that believes complex human variation is going to be tough to tackle using these mechanisms is a majority. But but maybe Elizabeth, I'll ask you a question about that. What do you think about um bringing back um biodiversity using these uh new metrics or new Are you enthusiastic about that or are you yeah. Well, all it's like all roads lead to George Church, um who has spoken Harvard geneticist who has spoken about bringing back a mammoth, you know, that that actually um uh Asian elephants and mammoths are quite closely related. Um more closely, I believe, than African and Asian elephants. And um and that we could just, you know, trick, you know, we could re- rejigger an Asian elephant again and get a mammoth. Um You know, I think that there are a bunch of things to be said for that. Besides, you know, let's let's just assume for a moment that we could overcome the hurdles, which are great, because as soon as an animal is extinct and dead, it recreating its genome becomes, you know, extremely difficult. But let's say we have an animal uh we are driving it to the edge of extinction. We take a live animal. We just, you know, sequence its DNA, pretty easy to do right now. Uh bank it. Uh and then we decide let's let's bring it you know, let's bring this animal back. There's a lot of questions you have to ask. One is um you know, why did it go extinct in the first place, you know? So, you're not going to you know, you're not going to be able to a lot of animals if you've been being done in by a disease, if it's being done in by an you know, a predator, an invasive predator for example, you put them back out there, you're just going to have the same problem all over again. So, you got to deal with that. Um but I think a more profound question, and this actually gets back to your clone with a GoPro um is what is what is identity, right? So, you know, there's a case right now, and this is not a this is not sci-fi at all. It's a very simple case of of um conservation biology where they had a species of of the Hawaiian crow, um very got down to really really low numbers. It's a distinctive species from our crow here in the continental US. Um considered sacred by native Hawaiians, down to like 20 birds. They did all sorts of things. Set up a breeding facility, you double clutch birds, you take the the eggs, the birds will lay another egg, uh you raise the bird by you know, heat or raise the bird, blah blah blah. You can do all these things. They brought it back to a point of having maybe 150 birds. Just recently put some of them back out in this forest, which they very carefully, you know, tried to get rid of predators, blah blah blah. And it's killed their the first ones were killed by hawks because they didn't know how to defend themselves from hawks. They hadn't been trained. So, you know, an animal is not just a collection of genes. It's a it's a it's a We know more we learn, and there's a lot of culture. Crow needed a GoPro. Exactly. The crow Well, there you have it. Parent crow needed a GoPro to transmit to its Exactly. But I'm thinking about my clone. Doesn't want to watch my memories. It's not interested in my memories and I actually I actually have clones. I have identical twins. I have clones and I always wanted them to write about I am a clone, but they never wanted to do it. Um but they're actually very different people. They've had very similar experiences and they have, you know, identical genetics, not epigenetics perhaps, but identical underlying genetics and they're still very different people. So, I'm not sure I see the point of all that. Yeah, well That was not a question. Well, I know because to to a very high extent we are defined by our memories. You know, and and the clone may look like you, but it's just a thing, you know, it's not you anymore. And of course, if you go talk to real transhumanists, they're going to say, "No problem. In the future, we're going to be able to store the essence of your consciousness in a digital program and as long as you back it up, you're going to keep having it. So, you can always reimplant it in the brain of your clone." Now, this is what I was saying, this is this is my soft version of it. This is exactly. So, the this is GoPro Plus. Exactly. Anyways, we we have to move on because we have to have some questions here from the audience. Here it goes. So, so how was that I think that's for you, Sid. How was in vitro fertilization perceived at its advent? Do you anticipate that using CRISPR to modify embryos will eventually become as acceptable to society as IVF is now? Um so, that's an important question. So, um you know, when in vitro fertilization was first conceived, it was conceived as a mechanism to get over uh a terrible uh burden, which was infertility and the capacity, uh you know, people's desire to have children. That was That was the original driver um for that. And so, um what's interesting about it, um as as as you very well know is that it moved from and it has remained very much in that arena. Um but it also enables it becomes also enabling technology even though it wasn't this is a this is I'm trying to make a general principle out of this which is that although it was invented for the purposes of solving an illness it became enabling technology has become enabling technology for prospective genetic change that may not have to do with illness. Um and so the and by that I mean that because the because the egg is outside the the human body you can do things that you couldn't do in the human body including things that I just talked about before you could do selections for for different and and that interestingly has nothing to do with CRISPR right so that has to only has to do with reading the genome so if you can read the individual genomes of in vitro fertilized embryos you can select one versus the other and in fact many of the proponents of many of the people who worked or think about genetic change say that as far as constraining the field of human genetic or genomic changes that's enough that's sufficient that you can unless you want to make changes that are introduced into the human genome things that are entirely foreign to the human genome you don't need to do very much you can by by embryonic selection you can achieve virtually anything that the CRISPR mandate of extraordinary suffering has to do you should you can remove any forms of extraordinary suffering given again given constraints just by that technology alone. Okay Elizabeth so so how optimistic or pessimistic are you with respect to the future of humanity in a planet that is changing so fast. Well, I mean, I think that humans, you know, precisely, one one of the complexities here is that we are so so adaptable and so clever and such great tool manufacturers that we are, you know, thinking of, you know, mucking around with the genetics of of everything on Earth, or just to name, you know, one of an infinite number of examples. Um So, you know, optimistic, pessimistic, I think it really gets into, you know, are we going to do ourselves in? You know, quite possibly, you know, we've had the capacity to do that ever since, you know, Robert Oppenheimer said, you know, I am death, the destroyer, whatever, you know, so that's now we're going on, uh you know, over over more than 70 years, right, one of the first Trinity test. Um So, you know, and that's not a very long time in the history of the planet to have the capacity to destroy the planet. So, the fact that we haven't done it yet doesn't make me that wildly optimistic. Um But But but it's the most Yes. Yes. There's a kind of There's a moral syndrome that's building around not tampering with human genomes. Um It's not clear to me that there should be a moral syndrome around not tampering with genomes. No, I'm I'm not I'm not really not arguing What What's the morale What What Why should we not I mean, you know, I I can Why shouldn't we tamper with the genome? of of every Again, I mean, talk I mean, again, this Remember this argument came with and I talk I'm I'm talking about genomes in general. Remember this argument came before a panel the the the the CRISPR argument came before a panel and it was you know, the most vociferous people who argued at the panel were patient advocates, people whose children are affected with terrifying diseases, women with Uh so so I just want to be just again just to just to sound a note that yes it sounds hard you know we'll destroy the environment etc. etc. etc. but there is there is also on the other hand I mean you know we I think I think it we we it's it's it's fair to say that scientists aren't doing this because we are fundamentally Frankensteinian, you know? No I I I did not want to accuse you personally but and I didn't want to accuse scientists in general and I think you know look we we are all eating GMOs you know everyday whether we whether we want to or not and it's feeding a lot of the world and I I'm not a I I'm simply saying that we do have so many capacities to change the world on such a fundamental level and that's from the macro level of you know blowing ourselves to smithereens um and changing the atmosphere and changing the chemistry of the oceans uh to the micro level that all I sort of feel like all bets are off. I don't know where this is going. you be would it would it would it be more I I mean I could tell you I would be satisfied but would you be happier uh because the because the debate uh for GMOs I can give you the GMO debate. It's not a GMO versus you know go and shop in Whole Foods debate, right? Right. Yep. The the the debate for GMOs across the world is either GMO versus CMO chemically modified organisms which we've been using for the last spraying insecticides putting which dumps twice as much toxins in the oceans etc. That's the reality. Well I I I have I'm going to push back on that cuz a lot of GMOs are modified so we can put more chemicals on them. So that's a whole other thing. enough. So so here's here's my question to you. I mean is it do you think it's a it's a complete pipe dream that we would so you going back to E.O. Wilson is a complete pipe dream that we would have we have hungry mouths to feed we whether we could feed half of India without the high yielding varieties of rice is a question or wheat is a question mark. I mean should we What's the other option? What's the middle road? Is the middle road that we make seed banks and or is there no middle road? Are we Are we doomed down this road? Should we do Should we be crispering things so that we restrain ourselves? I mean, that that's also a possibility, right? We could use CRISPR as a police. Um we could be restraining ourselves in a variety of ways. I actually went to visit one of the seed banks. There There are many now. Um Is there a middle road? Are we Are we you know, once we're driving down this road, it ends with monoculture and and or with with people, you know, not being able to shop at at Whole Paycheck for their Well, I I think all these things pre all that question I I think you know, once again, you're you're like one one human, you know, one humanities majors opinion, which is is as to be honest not worth that much, but I will offer it since I'm sitting up here. Um You know, you're you're All these things are presupposing a kind of orderliness to the world. Is there a middle ground? Could we, you know, use genetic modification to come up with some really, you know, great crops, intensely farm certain areas of the world, leave other areas of the world unfarmed, and, you know, get through to a moment when population starts to fall and blah blah blah. You know, in theory, yes. Now, look at all the chaos of the world today. We were having a conversation at dinner about what's going to happen in Brazil. We all know what's happening in the USA. We can go down the list and say, "Okay, is that going to happen?" So, I I bring to this um you know, not a very high level of um you know, just I think an ordinary American's level of skepticism about you know, we have to decide to do things. We cannot decide as a world that we should reduce carbon emissions, okay? Nothing could be simpler. That is the simplest, you know, step. We have to reduce carbon emissions. That's like step one. We have technologies, or simple ones, they're called, you know, windmills and solar cells, to start to make a dent in this problem, and we are not doing it. So, the idea that we're going to come up with some great construct, and, you know, yes, it's theoretically possible. Do I think it's going to happen? I'm extremely skeptical. Yeah, I think that makes a lot of sense. Um Okay, somebody says something like um a question, changing subjects a little bit. A question for Sid, what about a fourth scenario? We're already immortal, perhaps life is truly eternal, but in a different form. Not sure I understand the question very well. Perhaps you mean that life just reinvents itself as time goes by, like the theory of evolution? I don't know what I have no clue. Okay. Um there's another one which is Maybe it was a spiritual question. Yes. Maybe. Yes. Uh possibly. so, too. Yes. Well, but you know, so Here is a comment about this whole transhumanist um uh idea, which is if you really take it to the extreme, you know, the real extreme transhumanism is to get rid of the flesh altogether. It's to become information, information that can basically just keep going from machine to machine, or eventually not even in any machine altogether. So, isn't this just uh reinventing the soul? Right? In in modern technological terms, right? Because you just get rid of the flesh. The flesh is a problem. Look at all this mess we have to do, right? Cut genes here and all that stuff to try to get to And uh and if you get rid of it, all you have is information. If that's really true, then here we are. We just transport ourselves immaterially across time. So, there is a huge religious component at the core of this transhumanist movement. Lots of scientists don't obviously think like that, but I think it's there for a lot of people that actually believe in it and want to feel it. Now, something more for you guys. Um well, I I I also wrote books, but as authors of books, you are you are immortal. Your books, your words now live forever. How do you feel about it? I won't answer that. That's for you guys. Mhm. Go ahead. I mean, I wish I had not put the word with in uh page 66 of I'm just making it up. Um well, I don't know, Elizabeth, what what what do you what do you feel? let's put it another way. Why do you feel compelled to write books? Wow. Um I'm not sure. Do you feel compelled to write books? It's It's It's kind of a torment to write books. And um you know, when you know, you write a book I I would you know, for myself, I write a book, there's a certain satisfaction when you're done after the torment, and and you are hoping to put something out into the world in a package, you know, um that you hope that people uh that will you know, make them think think differently. I guess that's what what I hope for, and I'm I'm sure also to certain Thomas hopes for, and you know, as for immortality, you know, to me, you know, I I I look around, I live in a college town, I look around the infinite number of books that have been sitting there and not taken out for generations. Uh so, I'm not sure that that's really a good a good way to achieve immortality, has it? That's good. In my case, I I have a very simple formula or a thought about why why to write anything. Um Uh I think uh everything um should uh raise a question or or or ask a question. Um my two books are well, three books, but two two two the bigger books are are very much directed by individual questions. The first book, The Emperor of All Maladies, came about um because a patient asked me a question. She said um I was giving her chemotherapy and she said, "Where are we going with all of this?" And you can take that question at face value or you can ask the question, "Where are we going?" I mean, this is a an illness that is you know, redefined. Cancer has redefined our relationship to disease so much so that uh we no longer use um society to uh as a lens to view cancer. We use cancer as a lens to view society. Um that much influence on our perception of ourselves, our perception of our future, and perception of our mortality. Um and yet we had no history, no road map for that. Um uh in The Gene, I raise a a question about who are we? Um and what are the limits of and how what we change? Um so so and and I think in general, that's been my approach to this. A a book I think is successful. I mean, Liz Abbott's book, which I devoured by the way, um Six Extinction asks a again asks a question. It's a It's a book that raises a question and tries to offer an answer to a question. Those to me are fun. And even fiction does that. I mean, my my wife's a sculptor. Um whenever I come up to a sculpture, I say to her, "Well, what I mean, she asks me once in a while I'll go to the studio and she'll say, "Well, tell me about what do you think about this work?" And I'll say, "The first thing I'll always say is what question is this piece trying to answer? Um What question is this painting trying to answer? Every painting, every thing in my lens, may not be your lens, but in my lens is about what question is this trying to solve? What is it trying to solve? What is it trying to raise? Um and it it's it's a one way of viewing the world. It's a way of viewing the world in which everything is driven by a series of questions. Yeah. So, in the end of the day, I I we're meaning-seeking creatures. And we do the things we do because we we have the urge to to engage with these, right? Right. And and that's what makes you not completely whole, but at least more whole. Right? Okay, so there's one last question that I wanted and then we'll we'll close. Um on soft immortality in some sense we're already living it. And I this is the numbers here. I don't know. 50 billion cells from your body die every year. Is that correct? 50 billion? It's 52, but okay. Um our bodies days ago are different from today's. Um and that's an interesting question, right? What how how Where is the is the this is the Delphic boat question, right? The the famous the famous conundrum which has been raised many times by philosophers since a long time. If you have a boat and you replace every plank in the boat, is the boat still the boat? Uh this actually is a question that has very much to do with things that you are thinking about, too. The question you raised about identity. If you recreate the planet and repopulate it with everything that we ever saw, um would it be the same planet? Would it be the same plan? Right. Uh and there are this is a very fundamental philosophical question. Um I'm not sure I have a uh a single kind of answer to that, but but the point is that the the fundamental difference um is the difference in autonomy. So and again, this goes into some some things that we've been thinking about as as biologists for a while. Why is the body a body? Um it's a Delphic boat question. If your cells are being replaced all the time um why is the human body a single body? Uh it's it's a Delphic boat. Um where the the question begins to become interesting is your body remains a body because it has autonomy. It is servicing yourself. It is it is in service of something. When you necessarily create a clone, and this again, there are many parallels to the planet here. When you make a clone, that clone assumes autonomy of itself. If there was a war between you and your clone, the clone would side for itself. And and it would say, go take your GoPro memories and I'll tell you where to put them. And this may indeed be the case. If we want to do this version of immortality or this version, even if we take transhumanism to the nth extent as information movement, what is what is what is there not to say that at the third generation, this machine will say, I'm not interested in your memories. Go take your memories. I want my new ones. And we would end up being right back to ironically where we are now. When our children say, I'll tell you what to do with with with your recommendation to read War and Peace, Daddy. So so so there is of course these are I mean obviously these are deeper questions, but they go back not the metaphors extend across human beings into into into planets and ecosystems as well. Okay, well, just one last thing that I wanted to say that you can be sure that given modern astronomy, there's only one planet Earth in the whole universe. There may be other planets that could be somewhat similar, but no planet will have the same history as our planet. So this is the only Earth that exists. And furthermore, there are no other humans in the whole universe. There may be humanoids out there, who knows. We have no clue, but there is only one species like our own because we are the product of the history a very specific contingent history of our planet. So we are very special in the end of the day us and the planet. So let's do something to protect it. Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: iNXZtY7dab8 (https://youtu.be/iNXZtY7dab8) ===

[Music] foreign Messer I'm the producer and host of poured over and Siddhartha Mukherjee writes extraordinary books now he also happens to be an oncologist and a professor and you have two biotech companies now which we'll get to at some point but you also have a Pulitzer Prize let's start with the Pulitzer Prize for emperor of all maladies the new book is the song of the cell the subtitle is an exploration of medicine and the new human and I'm delighted to see you but I gotta ask about this new human part um the new human is is kind of a provocative idea in the book I was obviously been toying with the idea of where medicine is going in the future and became really interested in in the fact that you know when you read historical documents when you read about the first blood transfusion or when you read about the first time someone had a bone marrow transplant they themselves and of course their their doctors and families thought that what had come out of it was a new human being when the first IVF baby was born Louise Brown she was broadly considered by the word a new human being a new kind of human being right of course there are hundreds of thousands of babies born with IVF today and we don't you know we sort of think think of them as part of ourselves you know normal process etc etc etc but I wanted to highlight in this book which is all about the excitement of being able to manipulate cells now what we're really doing is tapping into a new conception of a human being in where we can manipulate ourselves to cells and this is not going to be a Sci-Fi version this is except when I say this is not Keanu Reeves in a black MooMoo this is ourselves um it is the birth of Louise Brown it is the birth of astonishing therapies uh which we are harnessing you know harnessing the immune cell doing immune transplants in which you are living with someone else's body you may be living with an altered version of your own body in the case if it's your if your own cells but the capacity to do gene therapy plus Cell Therapy that combination has allowed us to sort of really begin to think of ourselves as humans or animals or organisms where we can manipulate fundamental units blood the immune system bone marrow potentially bones uh potentially organs that potentially you know Parts the nervous system using a combination of um Robotics and gene therapy but ultimate chemically which impinge on how cells behave and that's the new human part and I find those new humans incredibly exciting I find that you know we again will think of the moment of Louise Brown's birth um everyone on Earth was was shattered by her by her existence and so I find these kinds of ideas very provocative and that's the idea of being one of the provocations in the book is that you know we're making these these things and but what we're really doing is making a new conception of what it means to be given and gene therapy is also been around for a while but they seem to have really progressed significantly in maybe the last decade do I have that right last few years it sort of seems like you know it's become much more common to hear someone say oh well I don't have to do radiation I don't have to do chemo I'm actually doing something else and that felt like sort of the last sort of hump for those of us who don't work in medicine it seemed like a very very big deal one of the things also that I point out in the book is gene therapy is of course extraordinarily important but before we conceive of gene therapy I mean really gene therapy is cell therapy a gene is a lifeless molecule a cell enlivens the molecule um and that's something somehow that I think a generation of observers or readers and writers and perhaps even scientists have missed in order for gene therapy to work the gene has to get to the right cell at the right time um in the right place and it's the cell that's the functionary of gene therapy without the cells now part of the reason I think is actually there's some something very metaphoric and iconic about all of this and one of my reviewers pointed this out early on you know DNA is an iconic molecule it looks like as someone said it looks too perfect not to be right when they saw the structure of DNA okay the double helix everything about the structure of that molecule looks too perfect not to be right um and of course it was eventually proven proven rights but it's iconic we see it you know you pass by and a advertisement for soap and there's DNA you pass by an advertisement for a skin product and you know there's DNA and you know there's a picture of DNA by it right um you go to the doctor's office and there's a picture of DNA um and you could ask yourself well that's great but this molecule is lifeless um it's a molecule in a test tube just like you know sodium bicarbonate what brings this molecule to life and it's it's the cell and it does so in in an extraordinary manner in other words if if you read the genetic code which you and I can you could read it but you couldn't understand it it's a cell who understands it and only the cell that understands it um you could read the genetic code which you wouldn't be able to tell me for instance why certain organs look the way they do why they behave the way they do they do why aging happens the way it happens um why repair happens which organs are reservoirs of stem cells which can be genetically manipulated um you know how the immune system really works you could read that whole code I mean the the code is there but we are blind to the code only our tiniest units are not blind to that code and so in some ways the cell is the icon um but it is so diverse in its function and form that you can't put it you know in some place you can't put it on on the skinceutical advertisement that's also a fascinating idea is that we've take we we of course gravitate towards things that are so fantastically simple but like DNA but from that fantastically simple code we're building these incredibly beautiful organisms objects that adversely occur and there's no icon for them except for of course the cell okay I want to build off of something that the New Yorker actually said in their review of emperor of maladies which you know we're going back a minute and a half here but this is an enduring fault line in the nature of medicine itself is it a future oriented science or is it a present rooted caring practice and it seems to me that in your books you're doing both of those things you're saying let's move the needle forward let's keep the science going forward and the therapies and the technology but also never lose sight of the people and that's not always the easiest balance yeah and I think you know that making making I didn't find a writer in that genre people write medical histories people write personal uh case histories I didn't want to do either people write Memoirs uh I wanted to do all of them in the same book and I wanted to do that without blurring the boundaries between any and all of those so the book could become at Parts a memoir at Parts a deep history at Parts a very narrow history people are always interested in finding out you know why are you so interested in what I was eating when I made the discovery I'm always asking what did the room look like where was it or sometimes you know in the case of the gene the gene begins to my visit with men to Mendel's Monastery the emperor formalities begins with to some extent my stay at the Dana Farber as a fellow where I was uh training in in cancer so um why am I interested because those are parts of you know I consider those parts of living history and my extension I consider them part of the history of of the old I just melt them together and you've talked about how this is going to become a quartet emperor of malady's the Gene and now song and the cell and I'm wondering it seems to me having read all three that song of the cell has a deep connection to both of the earlier books not just for the reasons that you were talking about before but that blend of the personal and the scientific and your research and really just wanting to be honest about where you are and where you want to go yeah I think that first of all the honesty is very important I think readers I think one of the things is that readers want to know uh where we are without sort of inflating the inflating the economy of knowledge inside uh which is always a danger we're so excited about what we're doing but we have a best scientist I think as and as doctors we have a slight tendency to inflate the economy of our own knowledge I want the real picture and yes they're related they're also you know they're related in structure they're related in form they are related and in fact in the end uh when the quartet is completed I think Emperor will be lost in that quartet uh the dean will be first the cell will be second the third book which I haven't written really sort of very vaguely started thinking about will be the third and Emperor would be the fourth I think they have their similar instructor they're similar form what's interesting about them also is that they ascend in complexity um so the gene is the unit of life but as I said lifeless uh the cell becomes the fundamental unit of living um it enlivens the gene um cancer is the pathology of that cell um and so it comes third or or last in that Trio or cortex depending on on how we think about it when did you start writing song in the cell I had a little Hiatus I was writing a lot for the New Yorker and crimes magazine so I had a little Hiatus in terms of my writing in so let's say from 2017 to 18 and early days of 19 I had a Hiatus um in terms of writing a book I was writing a lot but it wasn't writing a book and then at some time I think early 2019 late 2018 I began to realize that in fact this was material for a book and that's probably when I started I don't have an exact date yeah you write sort of in five-year chunks it looks like yeah I write in about four or five year chunks yeah okay you have an act of practice here in New York I do as an oncologist you also teach where is this coming in how are you making the time I mean back in the day you used to sort of lock yourself in the office and grab five minutes here 10 minutes there five minutes here is that still how you're doing it I mean yeah I'm locking myself in my office with longer for longer times I mean the companies are interesting because they're very I would say very Cutting Edge uh one of them is a public company called which is trying to cure leukemia using gene therapy and Gene editing it's really one of the first time that we've Jean edited this particular Gene in history and so there's a lot of excitement but a lot of trepidation around you know how it'll go and things have been going very well for for I've been involved in a company that that is regulating diet to manipulate cancer again a paper we published in nature three four years ago and then in India I've set up one of the first car T cell company we've dosed about 10 patients and that's also been very exhilarating to watch so uh but those companies sort of run on their own once they have founded them I just sort of keep the lead on the research team I don't do anything I don't any of the administrative work I I just step away from that and then of course you know the the medicine goes on as it goes on and so I find stretches of time I find uh I'm not a very disciplined person I just find stretches of time and then the trouble is getting yourself into the Zone but once I'm in the zone I can pull out you know 20 30 40 pages um a day um sometimes even more I could write an entire section um and that's how I've always written that's how I always write um I'll go back and maybe check out half of it later but but um but when I pick up speed just in terms of putting words on the page I put words on the page and you've said in earlier interviews too that you don't really differentiate between your work as a doctor and your work as a writer and I'd really like to take a minute and explore that idea for a second I mean I I think at a very base level I understand what you're saying no I think I mean there's several ways that I've come to that idea one of them is I use like like many people I use writing to think and I use diagrams and writing to get it together to think um it is my mechanism of of How to Think Through problems um think through medicine think so that's the that's the narrow sense with a broader sense I also use it to think about not just one case or this particular case I use it to think about the landscape of of medicine doctors often don't ask questions like where are we now and where are we going um they're sort of you know we're so nose to the ground um which is a good thing you don't want your doctor to be the local philosopher um but but we're so nose to the ground that we often sort of forget the idea that there's a journey here and it's a remarkable Journey one of the most remarkable Journeys in intellectual history and so um you know I I just think of the landscape where is the landscape where are we going that that's why I get this question of you know human and new human what is you know what are the limits and what are the implications for all of this so obviously there's some separation between my writing life and my my medical life but I'm on the page I'm on the page as a doctor that makes a big difference again so where are we now well first of all we're learning very broadly speaking how an organism is built um how an organism uh repairs itself from injury and how an organism uh performs Rejuvenation over time and Longevity um I'll say that's a very very broad landscape view of where we are um cells are the functionaries in all of this cells are reading the genetic code and then converting the genetic code into function once we figured out figure out those three how we're built uh how we repair ourselves and how we rejuvenate ourselves and their flip sides so what makes that building go wrong what makes um the repair go wrong and you know when you when you cannot rejuvenate or rejuvenate too much um you get cancer or or death from degenerative diseases so so we're trying to see look at both the uh building and the the destruction the pathology that accompanies when those processes go wrong um I think once we understand them relatively deeply they don't have to the fullest depth the question that we're asking and we're beginning to ask is well okay we understand this can we change it um can we change the process and can we change it deliberately safely what are the limits of that safety um and and how do we control um those changes um so for instance we're beginning to work with T cells in a way that you know didn't exist in my in at least in my prior lifetime we're beginning to work with the bone marrow for instance at War we are changing the bone marrow um in a way that was impossible to imagine so it's the combination of this knowledge of these sort of very uh three broad categories combined with cell manipulation and genetic manipulation cell manipulation meaning isolation of cells identification of cell type and and genetic manipulation of that cell type and then beginning to create you know build up build up organs build up organ systems build up you know reboot the immune system cure uh really deadly diseases like cancer moving into diseases like type 1 diabetes we're trying to transplant um you know pancreatic beta cells that they'll insulin so that you don't need to inject yourself every day every day um this is part of where we are yep and the book is where we're going exactly so so um as we find out more and more about these three processes we'll find out more and more about where we're going and sometimes in in some cases we're sort of almost halfway there in other cases where a quarter of the way there and yet other cases you know we are far from there the March is going on we're in the middle of it you know when you talk about Gene editing and gene splicing and people have very big feelings on coming from different angles on on it and it does it still sounds a little science fictiony even though you're a doctor and you've been practicing for a number of years and then you've also got this sort of little Specter of eugenics in the background and I mean you talk about both of these things in the book and and it really is like how do we put the science first I mean you talk about science being the search for truth and how exciting it is to be on the frontier of creating a new medicine I mean these are all important things but we don't always have the greatest track record as humans when it comes to applying these things that's something that scientists need to realize I mean that was in some ways very Central to the Gene and is somewhat Central to this book there's no regulatory Authority that's going to tell us what to do and how to do it when to do it um you know if you're living in China or in Russia or in somewhere else different rules apply um but I think the the idea of eugenics is very much uh part of it I mean the hard line that that people have drawn so far is you know what I call the line of suffering um is it suffering it should meet an unmet need in other words it should meet the unmet need of suffering and then have have safety um and a track record of safety then there are you know as you know they're complicated that Things become in the real weeds Things become complicated there's a very interesting section in this book where you know the American Society for Gynecology meets and says infertility isn't suffering we've had infantry for you know the beginning of human history um so it's not suffering whereas obviously um I don't think that would be the consensus today therefore they said IVF shouldn't be treatment um if you're not treating what are you treating what is the medical condition you're treating it rings very oddly today because we are so on the other side of that uh it seems like an absurd statement but at that at its time it was not considered absurd lots of people really believed it um and so that's an example of how sort of even though we can be relatively uh strict and honest about um you know what suffering means and how we can we can handle it um I think that that the the the term itself is slippery and moves along and often can't uh can't we just spin down yeah you also tell a personal story about a bout of depression you had in 17. and you're talking to an old friend and colleague Paul greengard who had a really interesting way of looking at depression and I just want to raise it here because again there are some people who are just like well it's brain chemistry he called depression a slow brain problem and then the two of you sort of dissect it over lunch can we go there for a second can we talk about Paul and his [Music] um unfortunately died uh in 2019 I think uh but Paul was it was an immense figure in his field a towering scientist uh when he won the Nobel Prize in 2000 for physiology and medicine and that Nobel Prize is really important in our understanding of diseases like depression um for years and years so we have to go back a little bit um so the nervous system obviously is made of neurons nerve cells and um there were classic experiments performed in the 1950s in which they solved how nerve cells talk to each other that mechanism of talking was um an electrical impulse moves through a nerve cell and we can talk separately about how that exactly that happens you can imagine an electrical impulse that moves to a nerve cell well it reaches the end of a nerve cell it causes the release of chemicals called called neurotransmitters so those chemicals are like serotonin uh dopamine a chemical called Gaba many others the whole families have done those chemicals then go and go into this little tiny little cleft little space between the two neurons one wire just finished they go to that space in between the Y2 wires and then they restart the electrical impulse in the second wire um they may be inhibitory they may be excitatory but they do something to the second wire and change its electrical transmission um and this process occurs in about a millisecond and this is the so-called electrical grain um and it was very soon called the fast brain because it the whole process occurred so quickly so this was the conception of the brain as a series of wires with this chemical neurotransmitter thrown in the middle but nonetheless a series of wires and the idea was that if you solve the black box of wires we'd solve all the problems and they our understanding of the brain so Consciousness sentience sensation um you know all these other memory all of these other features of the brain would be solved by understanding the wired brain the box of wires and as I said there's a chemical thrown in the middle from that emerged a theory of depression was which was that chemical thrown in the middle serotonin there wasn't enough of it and therefore if you somehow could increase that chemical you would relieve or alleviate depression I I call this the the loudspeaker Theory so it's because you know it's like you know you've got two electrical wires um but the loudspeaker between them or the volume of transmission between them isn't high enough it's not sparking enough uh signal in the in the second neuron the second electrical wire and if you could just make it a little bit louder the second wire would become here and could now hear it um and it would resume normally and so in the 1970s and 80s many drugs Prozac and Paxil and Other Drugs were invented these are serotonin reuptake inhibitors ssris the bottom line is what they do is they increase the level of serotonin in your brain and the idea was that was one once you've restored the in if you've increased the amount then the electrical grain will now restart or re-spark in its normal process and as it resparks your depression will heal that happens in some cases but the responses were far from predictable and far from Universal um whole comes in here at around the 80s and 90s and he says wait a second there's a different kind of transmission going on in the brain and it's very important this different kind of transmission the brain is not just a bunch of electrical wires the brain is also a site for biochemical reactions within the cell so that impulse from one cell appears down and binds to The receptors in the in the second neuron in the second electrical wire it's not like just sparking off another electrical signal what it's doing is it's changing fundamental biochemical metabolic physiologic features of the second wire and so don't think of the brain as a box of wires it is also a site of biochemical reactions it's a chemical his idea was that it's these second it's this slow transmission which occurs on the orders of seconds if not days changing the electrical wire that is recipient end that really are responsible for many properties of the brain and most importantly are dysfunctional in diseases such as depression and schizophrenia and all to the to the end of his life believe that Depression was not just a serotonin you know not enough serotonin problem that it was actually changed in the slow brain changes in the biochemical Pathways that ultimately cause the smooth Disorder so that's that's sort of the big distinction but that also leads you to a Carl Sandberg poem I mean this is something you do throughout all of the books that you have as many literary references as you do medical references it's a really great Sandberg piece that you pull but zadie Smith shows up in this book Iris Murdock shows up in the new book and so your influencers are so obviously coming from every piece of your life but can we talk about the writers for a second the writers who helped shape you because you've said it before that I learned to write by reading and then when I say write I mean write really beautiful smart books not just you know well the first thing I'll say is that uh whenever I have a conversation with someone I I I mean they know that I'm not I'm a writer and I I might be having a scientific conversation and I'll say to them just remember nothing is really off the books in other words would you say something to me if if it happens to catch some thread that is deep um that will probably end up in a book somewhere you know you may be anonymized the phrase may be changed around but it'll end up somewhere it's going to become part of the broader thinking um the other question that people ask me is is it I find a little annoying but uh but it's important to answer they you know do write a book and then go backwards and find poems and fit them in and that's obviously not the case no no but what I do is when I'm writing so if I'm writing this this piece on depression and um I'm sitting there and remembering and I often just know the scratch of the phone I have to look up the actual words on the internet I memorize a thousand of them um I'll know the scratch of a poem and I'll say oh you know there's there's there was something so beautiful in that image of of this cat who sits quietly on launched feet and won't go on and the reason I think of this is that um I used to have a cat now I have a dog but often in the morning I'll get up with the feeling of of extreme chest heaviness um and it's because one of those two animals has is sitting on my chest um and so I had this image and I couldn't shake the image of like some kind of organic animal sitting on the my mood not letting it rise like pressing it down and that's how the Sandberg Point came in um zadie is had has been an old friend of my wife's um and has written about my wife um so I've you know I read zadie's first book long before I even knew her but I love zadie as an essayist and there was something about reading way back when I was reading about that I said essay that this is an essay that writes about Dickens and about the ability so it's actually very powerful essay it's about whether or not we can trans you know whether whether or not we can transform ourselves into other characters very radical essay for it particularly for this time there's a when there's a very when there's a strong question about who can write about what you know very controversial tough topics um and there's been a lot of conversation about this zadie takes up this idea of Charles Dickens arriving about a little now um and she says and I found it very interesting she says look you know the there's an infinitude of curiosity in that moment it's not like Charles Dickens Fields as if he's sort of schizophrenic it's the he has an infinitude of curiosity in that moment and um and when I when I read that I said you know that's very interesting because it's a little bit like science because in my lab there's no uh hard and fast rule that we cannot work on something um and the analogy isn't perfect you know Labs don't have the same sense of identity they don't have the same history and history is not loaded etc etc but what I found interesting is this idea of a person Charles Dickens being surrounded by all the characters he's created and in the lab and sometimes I think oh you know I'm sitting there surrounded by all the experiments that I've created some in blood some in leukemia some in metabolism some in um you know we study one of the things that I you know is in the book is that we study bone and we've discovered many many things about going that have nothing to do with blood or cancer or me being an oncologist it's just that we went down that rabbit hole and found really incredible things about about bone and Bone biology so um so therefore you know that image from zadie was very very haunting and came into the book um what other influences I mean they're quite stands some of them are standard you know classical Victorian case studies that I learned how to think about or think through via people like Oliver Sacks uh you know how to strip string a narrative together chronologics how to be in the place that I learned from Richard Rhodes um the making of the atomic bomb um you know actually the one day's books obviously about sort of humanizing um case histories and making them making them present Jenny even sometimes satiric and absurd sense of humor I don't know I can keep quoting you know non-scientific and literary references which which come into the book and I think it's important too because I mean what you're trying to do is bring people to a subject that not everyone is always rushing to I mean I remember the first time I read Emperor maladies and I thought wait a minute who is this guy and what's he doing and I knew you were a doctor and I knew I wanted to read the book because I'd heard so many good things from wildly different people in my life saying oh have you read this have you read this and I sat down and I probably read it pretty quickly I do remember because you're a little bit of a page Turner for a science writer and I just remember thinking oh I don't think I've ever seen anything like this before and I've been a Bookseller for a really long time and it was just it was one of those moments where it's like and then the gene came and I was like okay okay I'll follow you down this Rabbit Hole too and here we are with song in the cell and I don't think you can have what you do if you aren't pulling influences from disparate spaces I don't I don't think it would be a very boring book right it's also an experimental book in terms of structure you know usually people write books in chronologically you know this happened and that happened and then she did this and then this that's a story and it's a big friend it's a great friend in terms of writing a book um in the song I said I was starting at chronological and certainly the first few chapters are and then I take this I think a weird and radical departure and I say well you know what every chapter is going to be a cell I was struggling and struggling and struggling to put it all sort of into one chronological basket historical basket and I said one day I woke up and I was like you know what really this book wants to be this book wants to reflect that the development or the history of Cell Biology is not is a non-chronological history by itself lots of things are happening at the same time so you can't say you know you'll be in 10 places at the same time following 10 different leads but the body is a separate unit of organization the body has organs and systems and cells and those cells perform separate functions so I said well what if each chapter is a cell let's just try it on and that's why I wrote the first uh a chapter on IVF called the dividing cell and all of a sudden I was that that feels very natural because you then go on from the dividing cell to another functional property and in the end you get a sense of all of sort of how all of these functional properties build up to create humans and and if their function goes wrong you get disease one of the things you talk about too though you needed to add a little new material that you hadn't quite planned on because you said there's no way to write about the cell if you're not going to write about covid I had already started the book there's quite a lot that had gone into it um and then the pandemic began to Wildfire its way through the world and I was basically homebound for a while um I would see some patients but you know out of in a very limited capacity and this was when it was the the worst throws of the pandemic and then I began to realize that even the pandemic is really kind of extrapolation of Cell Biology you can't think of the pandemic outside psychology and so we began to realize that that is really the way that cell biology you know the and it's also as I said as I say in the book also a very humbling moment because it was all of a sudden we realized that aspects of cell bodies that we don't even know I don't know how many people know this but but one reason not the only reason the one reason that um young men were previously healthy have had such a severe reaction to covet or other psychoscope to the virus is because they already had a pre-existing unknown un recognized autoimmune disease which had really inactivated one of the ways that the body responds to viruses and they had gone long their lives perfectly normal nothing abnormal about their lives but this virus all of a sudden exposed the idea that that was the problem that autoimmune disease was the problem and we wouldn't have even known that it was an immune problem until we dissected the cell biology and the immune biology of our human responses to Sarasota yeah when it comes to studying science and being involved in The Sciences I think everyone there is clear that you know like you said you don't always know but the whole point is to find out it's harder to follow science sometimes when you're not in the thick of it and it's harder to understand that it is a little bit of a moving Target you have to make educated guesses to get to the next step and sometimes it really works and sometimes it doesn't but what's the biggest lesson you took away from song in the cell how did writing this book change you I think the biggest lesson was to understand again I think that's why the code chapter was is very crucial it was to understand again the where what the landscape looks like you know build repair rejuvenate um but how much is now unknown unknown you know improbialities in some ways was a sobering book um the gene was a book where you you felt a sense of I would say a mixture of excitement but also of anticipation about the future um I think this book you feel you feel the excitement but you also feel as if you know you don't know what you don't know um so in in some some sense I think this book is a humbling book um it's a book about sort of realizing that that we need to understand as as I say in the last chapter just a cell in isolation but the cell in its context at the sell these what I call the Ecology of the cell and it's only when you see and understand that ecology is when you really begin to figure out how you know how things work and why things work the way they do you know all books have moves and I think the mood this book is exactly that um there's a kind of there's a sense of excitement about what's being done but there's also a sense of humility about sort of you know how much we don't know you know the one thing I can't really stress enough I know you're talking about humility in Song of the cell but it's also it's an incredibly hopeful book I mean you're standing on the precipice of the future and you're managing it in a way that not everyone gets to and not everyone gets to see so can we just talk about that for a second because I think it's really important for people to understand that like the future is here yeah the future is here in the future is ours and it's just you know what was to me the most interesting thing about writing this book was the sense of excitement yeah yeah and and being there and doing this you know looking down there's so much of this book which is about looking uh you keep looking down microscopes looking down tunnels looking at lenses looking at every and that looking is also of course looking into the future um it takes on an abstract form a metaphorical form so I just you know I found writing this book intensely exciting um and and I kept saying why hasn't anyone written this book before um obviously you know if people write different books but this is a this is a moment you know I met Emily Whitehead the one of the first survivors of T-cell therapy in in Pennsylvania and I was like again it was it was it was sort of my sort of like my Louise Brown moment uh in which I said you know you're alive because someone some group of scientists working over decades really figured out what a T-cell was figured out how to take a T-cell out of the body weaponize it with a gene therapy uh weapon basically grow those T cells in a Petri dish in a laboratory in a sterile manner Infuse them back into your body and make sure that the T cells would eat the cancer not eat eat the rest of you that's all you now each step seems like a throwaway line but it's is like was dug out of hard cold Earths in terms of science but also is the is so exciting uh we're talking about real real Monumental things uh Monumental ways to change the body Monumental ways to as I said make new humans and so I guess I just wanted to convey that excitement uh that I hope you know sort of palpates to the whole book yeah you need story to make the science sing yeah that's really all it comes down to so like the song of itself exactly Siddhartha Mukherjee thank you so much song of the cell is out now along with of course Gene and Emperor of all maladies thanks again [Music] hello readers it's time for another TBR top off where we recommend books to pick up when you stop in for your copy of the song of the cell I'm Mark and I'm coming to you for my Barnes Noble store in Cincinnati Ohio Madison I'm coming to you from my store in Indianapolis uh we've got a couple of great books to cover today Madison if you don't mind I'll jump right in yeah so I chose a fantastic fantastic book called mountains Beyond mountains by Tracy Kidder this is a remarkable and inspiring story about Dr Paul Farmer this man this extraordinary glorious wonderful man um about 40 years ago uh he established a health clinic in one of the poorest parts of Haiti he specialized in particular diseases like tuberculosis and AIDS his work extended through Haiti reached through Peru and even as far as Russia and all of this good work is still felt today and it stems from the mind and heart and philosophies of this beautiful beautiful man he believed that hard work and a kind heart were the first necessary components for healing secondly was access and resources and he strove every moment of his life to achieve all of those pieces his commitment and his courage are boundless and his empathy should be forever recognized and emulated and celebrated sadly Dr Farmer died earlier this year but his legacy lives on in this book and in the thousands of lives that he helped to heal if you need a great pick-me-up please check out mountains Beyond mountains by Tracy Kidder Madison what do you have for us I think what I want to point out first is that what our books have in common is kind of like the heart that's at the center of all this good work that all these like doctors surgeons are doing um which is why I chose the face maker by Lindsay Fitz Harris it was recommended to me by our Bookseller Heidi here at our River Crossing store and it is about the surgeon Harold Gillies who was the at the foundation of the plastic surgery movement when we think of plastic surgery today you think more like a vanity people getting all sorts of like trying to make the wrinkles go away off your face maybe a nose job because you had a bad fall when you were a child all these different things but I think what's wonderful about this book is that you actually get into the history and how it started kind of wasn't that way at all it all was centered around the first world war and these soldiers who came back for more and needed like facial reconstruction surgery so what Gillies did was kind of give this Spirit hope and Humanity back to these soldiers so what he did when he got his victims who were badly burned missing pieces of their faces he reconstructed it for them so Society no longer saw them as monsters but the heroes they deserve to be and I think that is such an important message to spread and something you might not think about when you think of plastic surgery today which is why I think the pacemaker by Lindsey fitzharis is such an interesting and inspiring read when you get down to it fantastic pick as always well that is all we have for today thank you so much for tuning in to portover please make sure to give us a rating And subscribe so you never miss an episode you can follow us at Barnes Noble pretty simple I'm Mark you can follow my home store at bien Westchester and I'm Madison you can follow my home store at vegan River Crossing thanks everybody happy reading happy reading bye-bye Port over is a Barnes Noble production the show is available on Apple Spotify and Stitcher please rate and review us wherever you listen to podcasts [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: iWWTMdEGan4 (https://youtu.be/iWWTMdEGan4) ===

[Music] hey everyone welcome to the Peter Atia drive I'm your host Peter Atia the drive is a result of my hunger for optimizing performance health longevity critical thinking along with a few other obsessions along the way I've spent the last several years working with some of the most successful top performing individuals in the world and this podcast is my attempt to synthesize what I've learned along the way to help you live a higher quality more fulfilling life if you enjoy this podcast you can find more information on today's episode and other topics at Peter via MD comm hey everybody welcome to this week's episode of the drive my guest this week is Sid Mukherjee who is a remarkable writer in fact a Pulitzer Prize winning writer in a remarkable physician and scientist in fact probably there's nobody I know that combines those three things as efficaciously as Sid does his biography reads like I'm making it up he studied biology at Stanford he then became a Rhodes Scholar went to Oxford earned his PhD in immunology returned to the United States to earn his MD at Harvard etc etc etc fast forward to today he is an associate professor of medicine in the division of hematology and oncology at Columbia University which is where we met to do this interview he has published also and continues to publish consistently in both The New Yorker and the New York Times which and of itself is quite a distinction as I would learn typically one is on either side of those but not both and of course he's published in New England Journal of Medicine nature in addition to a whole host of other medical journals I met Sid by five years ago at a dinner that was set up by Luc Antley someone I'll be interviewing very shortly who will be a guest obviously soon and while I remember that dinner very well I was surprised to learn that it left such an impression on Sid and he described it as something to the effect of one of the most interesting and perhaps important scientific collaborations in his life that stemmed from it as we kind of jotted out a napkin experiment that went on to become a paper that was published by a group led by Lou and and that paper was published this past summer and we talked about that in detail that paper involved the use of ketogenic diets in combination with a class of drugs called pi3 kinase inhibitors we're gonna go into great detail on that so I obviously don't want to repeat any of that stuff here but I think for those of you that are interested in cancer you're obviously gonna find this episode very interesting but the other thing we had said is it doesn't matter if you have no interest in cancer I think you'll find this discussion interesting because say it has a way of making everything interesting and that to me is part of SIDS gift when I got his book the gene in the summer of 2016 when it came out it's one of probably only six books in my life that I was not able to stop reading from the moment I started so it's one of those things where everything else I was doing had to be put aside for a few days until I could finish that book that's just the way said writes and it's also the way he speaks he is a unique human being and I think that will come across in this interview the other thing that was a total pleasant surprise to me was in doing the research for this podcast was coming across a book that I was ashamed to admit I didn't even know he'd written called the laws of medicine or that's big it's called the Three Laws of medicine and we talk about these three laws and rather than even stating them now I just think it's worth this podcast is worth the price of admission just on the basis of understanding those three laws so with that I hope you will welcome Sid to the show and I do want to just remind folks to please sign up for the email list I've been putting a lot of effort into those emails every Sunday morning they go out and I hope that they're at least worth some value I think they are and I like to be able to kind of share things with folks that I'm reading or seeing along the way and they don't always have to do with longevity keep in mind one of the things that I think takes up more actual time than anything else with respect to this podcast is putting together the show notes so Bob and Travis work really hard on those and the feedback we've been getting is incredible people keep saying my god how do you make these things and the short answer is I don't I don't do any of it but Bob and Travis do especially Travis and I think that if you spend a few minutes looking at that stuff especially if you find some of the content challenging and when we get into technical terms which we do on some of the pod you're pretty much gonna find everything in the shownotes lastly if you're enjoying this it would be an honor if you would head on over to Apple podcast reviews and leave us a review especially if it's a positive one but we'll take a negative one too as long as you can be constructive in your feedback so without further delay here is my guest today Sid Mukerjee hey sit thanks for making time my pleasure thanks for being here yeah I don't get up to this part of the city very often so if I hike well it's a massive Medical School and it's hard to imagine it anywhere else except for uptown in this way you know we go right all the way to the river it's amazing and the last time I was up here was to see another one of your colleagues on the other side of the street Rudy Leibel who's a good friend and I used to be up here a lot more often so it was nice to come back most of our podcasts go really really long this one I don't think we have that luxury of time so I kind of want to get right into things but before we do I certainly think for the listener who doesn't know you well your your background which I'll allude to a lot in the introductions we don't spend too much time on it but you grew up in India came to the u.s. did you do college here or I went to college at Stanford yeah oh that's right you went undergrad at Stanford okay then Medical School at Harvard actually then in the middle I was away for three years I did a little road scholarship yeah you're a Rhodes Scholar yeah I was it was called and that's where I got my PhD and my PhD is in immunology mm-hmm which is a subject that I left behind I went to medical school at Harvard Medical School then did my fellowship my internship my residency at Mass General Hospital fellowship at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute and then started my own lab and clinical practice at Columbia University and have come back to immunology in a strange wide widening circle of the way yeah the first time we met was a dinner that Luke and Lee had planned for us as about three or four years ago and I remember at the time the topic that Lou is passionate about that I'm passionate about was sort of metabolism of cancer and at the time I wasn't something that seemed as interesting to you as it is today and I know today I want to talk so much more about that because the work you guys have done in the last few years is in many ways what I think is the most interesting stuff to talk about it was also a tough dinner because you don't eat most things it's hard to have dinner with someone when you went half the menus off the menu so anyway we somehow managed and scraped by and it was a wonderful evening actually led to what was that five years ago yeah led to one of the most interesting and perhaps important scientific collaborations in my life with Lou Lou but it was at that dinner which we kind of hammered it was in a Japanese restaurant on the Upper East Side in a tiny little place you remember I that's exactly I know exactly exactly it was well because we wrote on it you know it was a little bit like one of these napkin experiments where you write on a napkin an idea and that idea takes five years to come alive this thing that was sketched on a napkin that evening and is now leading to a actually kind of a massive clinical trial across multiple sites very energetic teams coming in to all of this out of that little napkin on Japanese restaurant yeah that was a really fun night prior to that I had read the Emperor of all maladies I don't think the gene was out yet the gene was not out yet I want to spend just a couple minutes on the Emperor of all maladies because if there's anybody listening to this who hasn't read it you won the Pulitzer Prize for that book I believe I did yes yeah so it's it's a must read having myself studied in oncology there were so much that I learned you know I trained at Hopkins which is you know so we're in the Halstead School of where the mastectomy was created where many of these things were created but to really understand the history of Barnard Fisher's role in the mess that community it's just an unbelievable story my only criticism was at the time quite a depressing story yeah you know I mean I'm not saying that to be critical I mean is the criticism of youth in the field no no it was to me actually interestingly people often bring this up idea up for me it was actually it's far from a depressing story it's just the opposite in fact if we don't contend with the question of how I mean the emperor of all maladies just for people who don't know is a history of cancer starting from its first description in Egypt right down to my own patients thousands of years of a journey against a disease that seems to morph in change over time every time we look at it this has a new form it reflects our own diversity to some extent our own violinist our own imagination as humans so to me not a depressing book because it is a way to look directly Klee at the face of the enemy and I don't find that depressing I find that clarifying and there are many many high points in this journey there's the invention of the great surgeries that save tens of thousands hundreds of thousands of lives around the world the dramatic advances against breast cancer and most importantly against some variants of leukemia whether mortality was a hundred percent in 1950 and is five or ten percent now 95 percent change in mortality is a huge difference in must rank is one of the great medical inventions of our time so for me far from a depressing book but a bit to me a clarifying book that tries to clarify why we're here today where we're going what happens next why we're not doing certain things why we are doing certain things so that's my impression of what happened at the end of that book when did the idea to write as it's really referred to the biography of cancer when did that idea come to you was it in your fellowship and your training at something yeah I was training and it was a very simple moment actually I remember a woman who I was treating for cancer came to me and I was giving her yet another trial of targeted therapy a new kind of therapy and she finally sat down on one afternoon and she said where are we going with all of this why are we here how do we get here and she was of course asking it in a very personal level but you could take that question and make it a much much larger question where are we going in this battle against cancer why are we here today what happens next why aren't we elsewhere how much of this is the wildness of this family of diseases how much of this is the capacity to use our the greatest skills of our imagination against this illness you know in the 1930s 1940s 1950s when you asked a child what the outer limit of their scientific imagination was they would say I want to be a rocket scientist and I want to send a rocket to the moon by the 1950s 60s 70s if you ask that same child what the outer limits of their scientific imagination would bring to the world they would say I want to cure cancer it began to define the limits of our scientific prowess are the limits of our imagination a world without cancer so there is a sense in which this is such an elemental illness so much of our culture is now defined through the lens of cancer and what was shocking as a fellow and I started encountering cancer in the clinical sense was shocking was that there was no such history that it was all ad hoc and we knew little bits and pieces of it was like looking at the enemy through a patchwork quilt with little holes in it and the attempt here was to say well what is the full story what does the story look like when did this start why did we end up here what happens tomorrow what happens way into the future 100 years what will cancer look like and a lot of thought experiments go into the book so that's sort of the genesis of the book and that's how it came about the research is also remarkable for a book like that anyone who's read it will appreciate and and again I think what's nice is this is one of those books where you can be an oncologist and read it and find it staggering and you can be someone who has lost a loved one to cancer but wouldn't know the difference between a sarcoma and a leiomyosarcoma doesn't matter the book resonates which obviously speaks to your ability to tell a story and then that's sort of Tim he what mind-boggling about that book is the way and it's the same in the gene by the ways that you weave in and out of a personal story and then something that's very dense scientifically and on a personal level this is challenging because I'm in the process as you know of writing a book and doing a pretty lousy job of it I think but it's this challenge of you want to be able to do the science justice but you need to build a tell a story so how does the the scientist Sid Mukherjee get along with the writer Sid Mukherjee well I don't think there are two separate people I think they're integrated into one person and that's very important there are many people in my world they wrote as a process of thinking Stephen Jay Gould comes to mind not to draw a ludicrous comparison Charles Darwin wrote to think of Oliver Sacks wrote to think I would suspect that Atul Gawande writes to think I mean I know it's also so the two people are fundamentally not different people in my brain in order to do the scientific work that I do I need to think it through often through the essays that I work on and they inspire you know kind of yin yang or roundabout way circular way ways didn't find new ways of thinking about the world the cancer world so there isn't a conflict I don't feel a conflict the process is probably of interest I mean the process is that when I started writing Emperor I sort of made a personal vow or a strategy in writing that this was my first book I'd never written a book before I wrote down some principles or tenets that I would follow and I've kept them in every book since the first one was that there will be no scientific abstraction but no place or point shall you go through five pages or three pages without there being a human being in the middle of this I'm I'm a translational researcher I'm a human scientist and that meant that I've made a personal promise that you wouldn't go through five pages without understanding what the payoff of these pages that you've really worked your way through often as a reader what the payoff is so if you look carefully through that book every five to seven pages the story comes alive in a human story in a scientific story and in a scientist story they all intersect they and sometimes through my stories there are times that are tough when I'm writing what the description the first cancer-causing genes oncogenes and their mutations it's tough to say well what's the human being this is a laboratory experiment in which you sprinkle tens of thousands of bits of genetic material onto cells and ask the question which cells become turned from normal to cancerous and that's the way you trap one of these cancer-causing oncogenes what's the human story behind well they're two stories one story is quite lovely it's the story of Bob Weinberg the scientist who you know walking through Boston in a snowstorm and suddenly realizing not in a one-to-one manner but this idea of sprinkling tens of thousands of genes onto pieces of genetic material onto cells like a snowstorm of genes there's a kind of congruence to that story it's not like Bob Weinberg woke up one morning and saw a snowstorm and said that's the experiment I should do but there's a kind of emotional congruence to the back story of a scientist but then the second story that illustrates this point is to walk through a patient telescoping down or other Oh scoping down words from their outer cancer a tumor a lump a mass that is about to kill them a real patient of mine a man with lung cancer and slowly in that same story of this man's illness began to microscope down to the fact that he actually has in his cells this mutant gene that Bob Weinberg once caught in the snowstorm of sprinkling genes on cells and all of a sudden this man's cancer he's sitting in a room in Boston surrounded by his family dying of metastatic lung cancer but at the heart at the root of that lung cancer is that very same gene that very same oncogene that was discovered described 1020 years before in a paper in a kind of dry abstract scientific paper and all of a sudden that gene the genetic material that can drive the growth of a normal cell in being make it malignant making metastatic so metastatic so malignant that our best medicine our best minds can't stop the growth of this aberrant cell all being driven in part by that very same gene that was trapped twenty years ago in in a laboratory experiment on rat cells so all of a sudden this thing comes alive to you in a way that it becomes consequential if you didn't know the identity of the gene you would not understand why on earth this 70 year old man in perfectly good health he's all of a sudden decimated by one or two or four or eight mutant genes in his cells that suddenly take over and drive the growth of these cells anyway that's one example and comes up over and over again so that was the first tenet that was the first what was the second one there are many so I'm not going to go through all the tenets but the second one was that this book all these books should be fundamentally readable by everyone you talked about this already it should be like a kaleidoscope that if you turn the book left words in you you see it as an oncologist it's still interesting the pattern changes if you turn the book right words and say you're an anthropologist it still is interesting if you turn the kaleidoscope upside down and shake it in and there's a new pattern that's formed it's because you're reading the book now as a clinical scientist or you're reading the book because your daughter has leukemia and you're the father of a patient with with leukemia or you're reading it because you yourself have been diagnosed with breast cancer or your mother has and all of a sudden the Kaleidoscope changes but the point is that the object remains the same it's the same book but you can read the book in various different ways you can come into a different ways often when I'm in this sounds like a strange statement often when I come back from the wards I reread my own writing to figure out sort of what was I thinking then in 2008 when I wrote those sentences and how does that change now has it really been ten years soon ten years so I should tell you that there will be a ten year update to the emperor there'll be three other three additional chapters I assume one of them will be immunotherapy as an update that's right so they're very broadly three sections that are updated and I've thought about it for a long time so there'll be an updated section on prevention there'll be an updated section on early detection and an updated section on treatment so that's the very broad three big broad chapters but in every chapter there will be deeper dives into what's happened now since the last ten years and within the treatment section and potentially within the prevention section there'll be a huge role of the immune system which was not fully appreciated in 2010 I thought that was the biggest distinction between the book when I read it and then the PBS special a Ken Burns special which of course again will link to all of these things in the show notes here but one you got to read the book but - I can't recommend enough the Ken Burns special they did an unbelievable job I think sharing your voice and that was the biggest I remember watching it thinking oh wow there's a big difference here because there's a three installments or five I can't repeat yet the third installment felt like it was half immunotherapy it was half a minute at people because part of the reason was that again this brings me to the next tenets in the book or writing the book the next tenet was that there's so much cancer research in laboratories going on everywhere and the tenets or the principle was that unless that research has manifest itself in a human drug in a human medicine in a Rican ception of how think about preventing treating or detecting cancer in a fundamental reconceptualize I D --is it won't get into the book so tumor immunology of course had been around for a very long time Coley's toxins famously and another such efforts very very early on but in 2010 we were at the edge of that moment in which we began to use tumor immunology in human beings as powerful medicines to change the course of the disease it was just the first trials that come out and in fact the book was completed in 2009 and the first trials had not even come out then this is a little funny trivia story that I'd almost forgotten about this until somebody mentioned it to me a year ago I think the first real paper that I wrote as a fellow was on ctla-4 it was looking back at this series at NCI of patients who had been given ctla-4 and responded and this paper basically identified the strong association between autoimmunity and their response to it right of course this will be interesting later in our discussion because I want to of course talk about James Allison so we'll come back to that but you're right that was sort of when it went from you had interleukin 2 that worked in maybe 10% 15% of patients but you couldn't predict why that was the bigger question you didn't know why were some responding and why were they only responding with certain cancers to where we are today where it's really been a transformation in the last 15 years absolutely and so when we started the film version of emperor with Ken Burns which I obviously was very close I work very closely with Ken I should say that the gene is also being made into film by Ken Burns oh my god it's like Christmas all over again it's almost completely shot we're sort of moving towards that editing phases and so forth but when can people expect that movie it's already been scheduled I think it's winter or fall 2019 so it's on the skates on so what a year from now yeah how about a year from now yeah we're working through footage and historical footage and archival footage and so forth but to wind backwards the crucial piece that had been added since the book was of course immunological therapy so much of what the last episode was around this new burgeoning field I mean in the first meeting that we had around the transformation of the book into the documentary film the first thing that was raised is what's changed and the answer was very obvious what's let's go therapy it might have been emphasized as much in the book and I may have just missed it or it's possible you also observed this as a change but I believe it will factor into the 10th edition which I can't wait to get my hands on is the role of obesity in cancer as if I recall in the documentary you said look this is now becoming basically the second leading preventable cause of cancer after smoking which was again I was aware of that at that point in time because of the work that I'd been doing and sort of my little echo chamber but I thought this is a PBS bet this is not something that I think most people would appreciate this is becoming a first for many people to hear that's right and the one thing that we should make clear is that every word in that PBS document was vetted by some of the most important and thoughtful scientists and cancer biologists and physicians and physician scientists and cancer advocates across the world there's a backstory in other words the script was vetted over and over again so that we wouldn't say things that were misinforming the public or or because this is this is documentaries for all time Ken Burns's workers evergreen hopefully my work is evergreen so it was very very carefully vetted and it was quite clear by the time the documentary came out that the signals that we were picking up around obesity and cancer were becoming extraordinarily clear for some cancers obviously not for other cancers and the provocative statement that sits behind all of this is that really since the last 20 odd years I mean even 30 odd years we have been struggling struggling to find preventable human chemical carcinogens of substantial impact every word in that sentence is important we have certainly found chemical new chemical carcinogens in humans but often in that effect small pockets of people who are exposed to those carcinogens we have found lots and lots of chemical carcinogens which have moderate to a very small impact if you look at populations overall the bar might be smoking so smoking is a is a good bar this is a smoking or tobacco smoke is a chemical carcinogen which is removable or preventable and has substantial human impact across populations changing smoking behavior can change fundamentally the epidemiology of cancers across nations if that bar is smoking we have struggled for the last 20 odd years to find things of that magnitude and effect the direct impact of that is when people come to me and they say well what do you do to prevent cancer in yourself and your family I have to sort of casually or not so casually admit that not Ray Mabus Lee don't smoke but it's not like I'm eating goji berries or avoiding some fundamental thing that everyone else is not in the know about because there aren't any I mean you know I'm obviously not exposing myself to these rare unusual occupational cancer carcinogenic agents but I'm not doing something fundamentally changed that's different from you or anyone else to prevent cancer the exception to this rule of the 20 odd years of the hunt for chemical carcinogens is obesity now you and I can have a debate is obesity a chemical carcinogen no not in the traditional sense is it even preventable maybe but we have to think twice or three times about it there's a role of genetics and environment in all of this and even do we think it's obesity per se or hyperinsulinemia or any other endocrine exactly or first of all is in an endocrine problem is an inflammatory problem or is it a metabolic problem at least 300 BC is such a a such a crude phenotype that's right there at least your point has at least three if not six underlying phenotypes that each of which mechanistically would make a lot of sense that's why celebrating cancer is a naming a logical phenomenon that is the cytokines the inflammatory all this going back to your general point that obesity was becoming identified more and more clearly as one of the potential causes of cancer or I should say strongly correlated with the development of cancer so strongly that we think that there's a causal link based on all everything that we know about epidemiology some cancers that we began to take this seriously and we're still taking it seriously but as you're pointing out there are several horns underneath that blanket of obesity that we understand very crudely and we've to figure out which of these is driving the cancer risk I would like to spend the next six hours discussing with you the tenants of writing for selfish reasons but instead I'll punt that to we'll do we'll have dinner in a couple of weeks and we'll finish that discussion I want to talk about another book you wrote that doesn't get as much attention which is the laws of Medicine you wrote that after Emperor before the gene correct that's right so the laws of medicine has a very different mandate as it were and that's because the book came out in associated with Ted they had commissioned ten books by ten thinkers around the world and they asked me to write a book up on that and ice it's necessarily a small book it's really a you know the mandate was to write basically a 75-page book expanding on a single very very incisive idea so that's the laws of Medicine yes if I if I got them correctly the three laws are a strong intuition is much more powerful than a weak test uh-huh how did you think of that and what is the most important application of that law to the way you think about medicine or specifically oncology today this to me is one of the great neglected ideas in medicine perhaps one of the great neglecting ideas in the world this idea initially comes from Thomas Bayes this is a Bayesian idea Thomas Bayes was a cleric but by evening he was a mathematician and an economist and he let his work leads to one of the most seminal and funny thought experiments that I've ever encountered which is the following and I I sometimes quiz my my daughters with it which is the following this is not Thomas Bayes his own example but it arises out of Thomas bases work and he one might imagine going to a street fair and encountering a man who's tossing coins and he tosses coins and your job is to predict whether the next flip coin flip is gonna be heads or tails and so he tosses the coin 20 times and all 20 times its tail's so then he turns to the crowd and he says what's the next coin flip going to be heads or tails now the mathematician in the crowd who's the professor of mathematics says 50% says 50% and you know everyone says absolutely right but the child in the crowd says no no you don't understand this is a stupid problem it's the coins rigged the coin has only it has two heads or two tails as case may be and the child is right and what's important about that insight is that the mathematician imagines the world this in this case this is not a stab at mathematicians in general but the professor of mathematics thinks of the world as having no history as having no a priori x' it's a world that's created in over every time the coin is flipped in its heads and tails equal every time but the child knows and I all humans know that in fact the world doesn't behave like that everything has priors and you need to understand those priors before you can understand the posteriors there's wisdom in that idea and it took someone like Thomas Bayes to figure that out that most of our lives we aren't living our lives like the crazy mathematician professor we are living our lives like the child we're thinking to ourselves what was the prior antecedent imagine this is true for any corner of your life the first question you ask yourself when you're trying to solve a problem try to understand the cosmos trying to understand something you ask yourself what was the prior life did the Sun set in the West last night and how about the night before and maybe I don't need to create a formula to figure out whether the Sun is gonna set on the west or the east tomorrow it's because it's set on the west every time they're obviously loopholes and gaps to this kind of thinking they're surprises that you can miss so bases fundamental idea was that you can only interpret a test in the light of what that test is predicted in the past it's an extraordinarily important idea in the way we think about about the universe that the past performance of a test tells you something not everything but tells you something about the future performance of a test and you can apply to many many things in the world you can apply to any kind of thinking economic economic thinking climate change oriented thinking that the past is a guide to the future not only in a kind of loose way but you're really using a rheostat weighted strongly by the past and this of course applies to medicine and it's a forgotten rule in medicine although it does seem like one of the things that I've always felt physicians innately do well without realizing it which is the opposite of where I want to be not to take the potshots but I think where we do very poorly isn't understanding asymmetric risk so Nassim Taleb has written a lot about asymmetric risk and I think he's absolutely right to be critical of not just physicians but basically most people so so my argument is we are innate wired to be Bayesian we are absolutely not innately wired to appreciate risk and both of these are important that's right so one of them we have to hone so much more because I think it just doesn't come naturally I played a funny experiment which you'll appreciate I'll send you the list and you'll have a field day with it it's 20 questions and each one is a quantitative question with an answer but they're not obvious you would never it's not like how many you know presidents were there or something where you might know the answer you asked the group we're gonna give you these 20 questions I want you to answer each question not with a number but with a 95% confidence and I think you know the game no I don't know that ok so interesting game so at the end of 20 questions if you've done it correctly you should have 19 out of 20 of those ranges correct I've never met a person who can come close you almost without exception get like seven of the twenty right you can't even contemplate what that variability is so the second law was that normals teach us rules outliers teach us laws so this of course these were very carefully the mess I thought I've spent a lot of time thinking about them of course this is the anti Bayesian law this is the exactly what you're talking about this is the idea that simultaneously in a medical brain has to live the idea that the Bayesian idea that when you hear hooves think horses not zebras famous medical tenets hoof beats outside your window are likely to be horses they're very unlikely to be zebras the second law is once in a while they are zebras and you need tools you need special ideas special tools to figure out what these outliers look like who they are how to find them and how to quickly find them so that you can identify them and triage them differently so in some ways these two laws are yin-yang they polarize against each other and what's interesting about them is that they both in medicine can both can be simultaneously true in the same way as our assumption of asymmetric risk is simultaneously true with the idea that our understanding of the base of a world in a bayesian way is helpful and important so the second law is about how to identify outliers how outliers tell us about the nature of normalcy how they tell us about how complex in Asians can produce occasional far outsiders and how those outsiders really challenged us to define what these interactions look like in real life I mean this simple example is it's very very hard to figure out the genetics of any disease without finding the rare people who have the disease as a consequence of a mutation the classic example of course is that we would not have an idea how to regulate our body or to prevent heart attacks if we hadn't paid extraordinarily close attention to a small family small groups of families that had a mutation in the gene that controls cholesterol metabolism most people don't have this mutation because those families are quickly extinguished we think because they died of heart attacks they have all sorts of problems they die of heart attacks but by paying extreme attention to this one family that has a mutation they're rare scientists all of a sudden uncovered a whole cosmos in which we understand now cholesterol metabolism and because of that cholesterol metabolism other scientists eventually developed the first statins so all of this you know the fact that hundreds of thousands of people in the world are taking this medicine to prevent heart attacks tracks back to a rare family where because of a genetic mutation they had a very very high risk of cardiac disease and of course now we know there's a whole family of those people there's at least 2,000 of those mutations that produce that phenotype and these natural experiments are actually a remarkable thing and of course to bring it back to the gene to now have a tool a probe to be able to explore that is amazing the third law for every perfect or exceptional medical experiment there is there's a human bias that goes along with it again these are unique to medicine and what's interesting about them is that they are unique to me at least what's interesting is that that they're unique to the day to day practice of medicine but they apply for every I think they apply to every corner of life you don't have to be a doctor to realize that for every every time we think of something if you're really skeptical thinkers we have to think about the bias that comes intrinsically with that thought in other words every single declarative claim about the universe that we're making must have necessarily a declarative bias that comes with it they're matched if you want to be a scientist you want to be a skeptic your real job aside from being creative and designing experiments is to find for every single declarative claim that you're making the bias that's drive sitting like a little devil buried inside that declarative thing because I promise you everyone has one each one of these claims has one and Richard Fineman who listeners of this podcast know is one of my heroes one of my kids is named after him he named Fineman or Richard his middle name is find I see yeah and my wife at first was like why would we do that but then once she had read surely you're joking mr. Fineman a couple of times because she'd read it once before she realized why but Fineman said eloquently right the job on science is not to fool yourself and you're the easiest person to fool that's right so to your point the only thing I would disagree with what you've said said is I don't think these are unique to medicine I think these are laws of science alright and it may be laws of life on some yeah so the mandate here really was to use this book as a kind of springboard to challenge the way we think about virtually all aspects of of how we live you're gonna read an article in The New York Times tomorrow that will make some claims about some politicians somewhere in Oklahoma or you're gonna read about an economic paper that is now being presented to the feds and your job is to be adequately skeptical about it and understand what are the priors how do we explain this particular fact based on the priors or the prior to the priors matter to use a very topical example there's someone's past behavior in college or in school high school tell us about how he or she is gonna be a judicial candidate or does their behavior under scrutiny in any way predict their behavior when no one's looking that's right that's another question the second question that you might ask here is again it's an outlier question right scrutiny versus not scrutiny are they do they become outliers to themselves if they're scrutinized if they're versus when they're not scrutinized and the third question is when I read this story what are my biases am i reading it because I'm a man am i reading it because I have a particular experience of my in my own lifetime myself my sister my my daughter my friend my colleague is that coloring the way that I read this particular story so absolutely and you know this thinking goes on over and over again this these are circular processes do those biases of priors do the priors have biases and so forth so you can use these I mean I I certainly use these tools in clinical yeah it's a beautiful as you said it's a very short book but again well we'll certainly make sure people have this link to it because I I think it's a great way of teaching people how to think and that's again I just don't think we're innately wired for every facet of thinking now going back to your background in immunology very recently we had a very exciting for those of us in this space very exciting Nobel Prize awarded I mean it was as we were discussing before we started recording it wasn't so much around immunotherapy but a very specific element of it which are the development of checkpoint inhibitors two of them in particular were basically acknowledged here that ctla-4 which I mentioned earlier NPD one tell me why these are so exciting they're exciting for many reasons they are exciting for again some history and some background as the story as it were is exciting because if you ask the question in the 1990s what's the relationship between cancer and the immune system you get a kind of diffuse answer you'd get an answer which could be very unclear because there were all sorts of complicated lines of evidence one line of evidence was that in patients with the complete collapse of the immune system such as patients with HIV or complete collapse of at least of one wing of the immune system they would get these cancers you've nobody else could get but what's interesting about them and this is where the thought experiment this is with the brain cells start sort of ticking and wandering they would typically get viral cancers viruses that would now get unleashed we now know many of them viruses like human papilloma virus they would get cervical cancers they would get anal cancers so a lot of viral cancers but patients with HIV did not generally get lung cancer I never thought of that said so we have enough data to know that they either at no greater prevalence or even at a lower prevalence when you start to talk about you know for example lung cancer or GB or kradic cancer I never thought about you know it's a very important so the data are mixed because of course in the 1980s they weren't living long enough so all that we know is that the first groups of cancers that cropped up in these men and women were not lung cancers that were not pancreatic cancer so at the first pass with that cut short data set you might begin to imagine then if that's the case the immune system completely collapses you only get a certain kind of cancer then what is the possible role of the immune system in in cancer control and Yuma if you were in a list you might have given up in the 1990s and said well you know take the whole immune system away and nothing really happens even with this cut-short data set so maybe there isn't such a complex interaction well it turns out that people like Jim Allison and his Japanese colleague did not put the immune system away they put that data aside said this goes back to the laws of Medicine they said sure it tells you a little bit but I didn't tell you the full story the full story turns out with there's one layer deeper and the full story turns out that in people who don't have a collapse of the immune system whose immune system is otherwise intact cancer cells not not all cancers but some cancers make specific factors in fact they evolved in the world make is the wrong word here they evolve so that they put up specific factors put up specific signals that inactivate the immune system or that make the immune system no longer able to kill or recognize the cancer cell and the identification of these specific pathways these specific factors was what led to the Nobel Prize because in further work Jim Allison and and again his colleagues as a big wide field showed that if you inactivate these specific factors if you drive nails through them using a variety of methods then all of a sudden the cancers become Reeve is about to the immune system and the immune system can attack and kill the cancer cells now why is it exciting exactly exciting for many reasons first of all it's important to realize that not all cancers respond we don't know why some do and some don't melanoma is highly responsive it's an immunological engaged tumor is it because the melanoma has many antigens that it will suddenly be more recognizable is it because the skin is such a lymphoid organ is it the right environment we don't know all of these questions the other thing to realize is that people have responses and some people continue to respond some other people sadly will relapse and they'll go you know the cancers will start growing back in the context of their re-educated immune system and that leads to the second question which is what happens then is there a second pathway and this is an important idea I think that goes back to your first question which is about whether this is depressing or not the important thing is once you drive a single stake through cancers heart it's like placing the first crampon on a climb you see if there's no crampon that's placed on the climb you can't climb a mountain it seems like a wall it's a blank wall and you don't know where to go left or whether to go right or what to do once you plant that first cramp on try that it sticks and it sticks you all of a sudden the whole face of the mountain becomes too different now it's a different mountain now because now you can ask the question because the first crampon was planted in that particular place and it's stuck and it's deaf I have a new vantage point exact perspective has changed that's right and so this is the important piece to realize about cancer research and perhaps about all research is that the first crampon or the first stake through cancers heart is an incredibly important stake because then you can ask what i call linear questions before that first one is placed the questions are nonlinear you don't know where to place it the whole map is open once you drive a stake through the first question the world becomes more linear you can may now ask the question what's the mechanism of resistance to that and when you do find that what's the mechanism resists to that and so all of a sudden the perspective is different because you've climbed through that first and that's usually where the Nobel prizes are given your Nobel prizes are given often for planting the first stake through the heart of a disease through the heart of a problem and that's why this Nobel Prize is important it's not of course as you're saying this does not incur the field of tumor immunology in general there is it's a wide field our own lab does a whole bunch of work into minimun immunology but we're put on the shoulders of those prior giants as it were and so that's the recognition that's been given you said something that I think is so important and worth reiterating there's also something about immunology and immunotherapy that's quite interesting as far as planting that stake which is the durability of response it is often the case that when you have an immune illogic remission it is a durable remission and it's not always the case but it is much more likely the case than when you say for example see a chemo therapeutic remission or even a surgical remission on a personal level I have a very close friend who was diagnosed with colon cancer 10 years ago at a very young age you know he might have been 40 and that was unusual in and of itself I remember talking I went to the hospital when he had his colectomy spoke with the surgeon after it sounded like a horrible case huge tumor the mesentery was full of nodes which I assumed would be positive every 26 node sampled all came back negative huh my friend was adopted we later realized he had Lynch syndrome eight years later he goes on to develop pancreatic adenocarcinoma unresectable so it's encased the mesenteric vessels he cannot have a Whipple procedure and as you know and unfortunately many people listening to this will know that is a death sentence yeah that's a non-negotiable you will not be alive in nine months and he was put on an anti pd-1 therapy because he happened to have as you would know these patients with Lynch are gonna be much more likely to be susceptible to checkpoint inhibitors two years later he's disease-free okay just unbelievable stories yeah and I think your point is an elegant one that I'd never really thought of before which is focused less on the fact that we haven't solved the problem and more on the fact that we have made a finite and real step towards establishing a new place a new location for which to view this disease that's right so I described this as taking a nonlinear problem into a linear problem now of course the answers are often not linear per se but it gives you a route and we will come back to the metabolism study that we did with Luc Antley that is a great example of taking a nonlinear problem and converting it to a linear problem now I'll tell you about that in a second but anytime this was the place with Vivek - let's tell people what Gleevec is yeah it is a good example of a drug where we learned to target a mutant cancer gene and actually the gene product so in that case the answer it's a blood cancer called chronic myelogenous leukemia was also a death sentence and also GI stromal tumors NGS trauma to museum chronic myelogenous leukemia was a death sentence people had to go through transplants I've watched probably a dozen in the pre Gleevec era dozen patients died of chronic myelogenous leukemia or the complications of transplant I trained briefly as a transplant er and then all of a sudden through the work of many people including Brian Druker that drug was discovered so before that scientists figured out based on very careful genetic analysis that the tumor was being driven by really the work of one gene and the gene was called BCR Abel it's and it's an oncogene it's a not found in normal cells but found in these cancer cells and the product of that gene became like a like an engine like a manic engine that was driving these blood cells to go crazy and make more blood cells and proliferate and proliferate and proliferate and it was this engine gone wild inside a cell and every time the cell asked the question should i / than looking at its normal state or nutrients metabolic state etc the only answer I would ever get was from this engine saying yes go ahead and make another cell divide etcetera etc etc so this was identified that the exact the gene product was I didn't find a protein product of the gene was identified and then through an elaborate series of experiments in circumstances chemists found a way to actually Jam the engine one molecule human beings may we stitch this molecule together it's a remarkable achievement and once the engine is jammed which suddenly turns out that the disease goes into remission this was one of the first examples there others of so-called targeted therapy where you take you synthesize a chemical to Jam cancers engines in a cancer specific way it doesn't affect normal cells but what's interesting about that is that some people develop resistance because the engine cancer cells evolve and they find a way of resisting but that resistance it becomes a linear problem you figure out what the mechanism the resistance is and you drive a second stake through cancer heart and when it becomes resistant to that he drive a third stake and so forth so all of a sudden the problem would seem like a big blank Rock became a linear problem so that that goes back to another example of how that first mistake or the first crampon really helps with the problem and now for immunotherapy immunological therapy the roadmap is much clearer why do some tumors responded by some don't respond visit a question of the environment that the tumor is sitting in is that blood vessels is that tumor cells is it immune cells these are answerable questions these are so called linear questions but the first big step here was to define the problem this is really a nice step off to exactly where I know we want to go which is we've got surgical oncologists medical oncologists radiation oncologists in many ways a subset now of medical oncology is immuno based on ecology the work that you Lou and many others are now doing is potentially a another branch of oncology called metabolic oncology so you're beyond gracious in your suggesting I have even something to do with helping that evening turn into a what sounds like a very productive collaboration between you and Lou and I'll be talking with Lou as well when the next month I'm sure but let's talk a little bit about what came out of that collaboration and certainly bring it back to Ben Hopkins paper that was in nature I believe was the nature yeah exactly yeah so let's talk a little bit about the question what were you trying to understand the question is there's a very wide question and there's a very narrow question the wide question is how does the body's metabolic state affect cancer it's a very big question because cancer is like all cells are eating nutrients as well too in order to grow and the question therefore is the cancer eating a different set of nutrients than normal cells this work goes back to famous work by Otto Warburg done in the early nineteen where Otto Warburg was one of the first people to make the hypothesis that there's something fundamentally different about I mean we won't go into great details but it's fundamentally different in which the cancer cells metabolize compared to normal cells they use fundamentally different pathways to metabolize and if you could find a way to target these metabolic alterations in cancer cells you would find an anti-cancer drug so but that question has been hanging around our field for a long time and as our understanding of normal metabolism has changed we've begun to identify not just one dozens of nutrient pathways that cancers use that may or may not be different from normal cells may be slightly different from normal cells may be a lot different from normal cells so that's one big question the second question which is a slightly narrower question is that when you give a drug whatever drug it might be your favorite chemotherapy your favorite drug any drug does it change the metabolism of the cancer cell and does it change the metabolism of the body and could this be a mechanism by which cancer cells become sensitive or resistance to chemotherapy so these are two related questions again to reiterate one question is how is the cancer cells metabolism different from the normal cell in normal circumstances and the second question is how is the cancer cells metabolism differ from a normal cell in the context of giving a drug in other words can a nutritional state be exploited and or a drug sensitivity be exploited through nature exactly those are the two questions so we focused in this particular site we actually are interested in both I'm interested in both but we focus on the second question and the second question in this particular case was that there was a very promising group of medicines that was being used in clinic in fact I had used them as a trial list they had come really out of Luke Han Lee's path defining work he had defined the pathway or the signals that these medicines attack and there was an enormous amount of optimism because this was considered a fundamental pathway this is the beauty by the way of being in a place like New York or Boston it's you can talk about someone doing this pioneering Lu was in Boston when much of this work is done he's now here in New York and you don't have to collaborate with a guy across the world let's collaborate with the guys on the Upper East Side instead of Chelsea that's right so lose work over the last decades had been to define this pathway and ultimately led to the formation of the creation of these new medicines they're called pi3 kinase inhibitors and they go by fancy names like develop and things like that but anyway when they came to clinic surprisingly there were some responses but there was a lot of resistance in patients that tumors were resistant to the drugs and didn't respond and that was a puzzle that Lou had come up with in his own work and then separately seven miles of town I was scratching my head about same puzzle because I'd been using these same drugs in cancer patients and finding that patients became resistant or were resistant to start and so what was chalked out that on a napkin that evening was we had thought of lots of ways that these patients had could become resistant we had thought oh maybe the tumor had a mutation well and there's one other point I guess to add just that we remember but maybe it's worth reiterating is a lot of the patients that were on these begin to develop phenotype like they look like they were diabetic so that's the point that I was coming to in a second we didn't know what if that meant that that was the source of the resistance that was a true true and unrelated yeah the question was was a true true and unrelated mean you can think of many other mechanisms of resistance you can say the tumors became a quarter mutation you could say the host had some problem you could write down on a piece of paper thousand ways and those were the traditional ways that one would explain resistance the traditional ways of thinking about tumor resistance is mutation the host eats up the drug the non-traditional way and this is what the innovation in the study was that what if there's diabetes that we were observing the high levels of sugar and the high levels of insulin insulin being the most important piece of this what if the drug was causing diabetes separately from the tumor given to normal people that the drug would cause diabetes in some people worse than others and that diabetic phenotype a diabetic state the hyperinsulinemic state was being used or exploited by the tumor to essentially become resistant to the drug it's a little bit like in the analogy that I drew I remember on the napkin it's funny I still remember the table we saw the drawing so Lou and I were batting this idea back and forth while you you were eating nothing and the idea was that to me reminded me of the famous story of the woodcutter who's sitting on a tree limb and chops off his own limb and falls down and I drew this picture I remember of the woodcutter on a tree limb because what happens is that the body mounts an insulin emic response to the drug that insulin emic response goes to the cancer and starts feeding the cancer and then the cancer becomes resistant so you essentially undo all the good that you've done with the drug by cutting off your own limb because of this entry circuit and the long and short of it is that that's basically in animal models that happens to be true so we showed it using formal systems and formal methods that this insulin amia is a consequence of the drug has nothing to do with the tumour has nothing to do with anything else if you give the drug the drug goes into the liver and the pancreas and causes a sort of a pre-diabetic State that's often worsened that if you're already in a pre-diabetic State this hyperinsulinemia is used then by the tumor to become resistant even while the drug is present it becomes a pathway by which the tumor becomes resistant and most interestingly that you can paralyze this resistance by putting animals on a ketogenic diet so basically there's never any sugar source to drive the insulin you blunt the insulin response so acutely that you can no longer get the insulin high again this is not to be confused with with the idea that this is a sugar feeding tumor idea this is not a sugar feeding tumor paradigm because to be clear on a ketogenic diet your glucose levels might go down from normal but it's not an enormous reduction even in a complete fast you'll still maintain at least three millimolar of glucose it's the insulin that becomes virtually unmeasurable that's right so it's and this is an insulin feeding the tumor question and so I think that three points that need to be made about the study to be very clear first of all it's an animal study we're now launching a human study that will launch in November with patients with lymphomas endometrial cancer and breast cancer particularly a triple negative breast cancer I'm very keen on studying because this is a cancer that has so few options that's right there very very few options so that's the human study the second point that it's worthwhile making is that it's sort of like folks don't try this at home this is a very particular study with a very particular drug on cancers combined with a diet the study only worked when the drug in the diet were combined it does not mean that the ketogenic diet is gonna prevent cancer we don't know this it's an open question we're actually studying that separately yeah and I want to talk just a little bit about that paper because that's boy I sure want everyone to make sure they hear that loud and clear cuz few things upset me more than when I spend a little too much time on Twitter and I come across people who seem to want to claim that if you're on a ketogenic diet you can't get cancer or if you have cancer just go on a ketogenic diet that's not to in fact to be very clear but study in fact demonstrated that that was not the case not only that the study also demonstrates that some cancer models including leukemia is accelerated on the keto diet in fact we have a big follow-up study to try to figure out why some cancers are accelerated by keto alone but when you combine it with the drug they actually go back down into he permission the third point to make is that it seems to be mutation agnostic and that by that I mean this is a very important idea which is that twelve tumor models responded twelve I was not aware that it was that high yeah twelve and actually all 12 that we tested responded every one of them responded and it didn't matter what oncogenes you had or what tumor suppressor genes were mutated they all responded to different levels leukemias respond they become then they'd relapse at least in the models endometrial cancers we can't get them to grow pancreatic cancers respond extremely strongly so it's another example where you're not targeting it seems the mutation this is not like Gleevec in which you're driving a stake into the engine of the cancer or that engine there this is a much more global yeah it's solved yeah it's a much more global assault in fact in some ways it's parallel akin to this immunotherapy in the sense that it the immune system doesn't care if you have wrath or doesn't seem to care at the first approximation whether you have a mutation in one gene or another gene grass or not grass it will kill the tumor cells based on its characteristics of what it sees in the tumor similarly here the metabolism seems to be tumor wide but not single kinds of cancer specific we don't know this to be the case the thirteenth model that we try will may be this was the one that not won't work but this has generated a lot of excitement for this reason you know I have a friend who has definitely her2 new positive maybe er positive PR negative but has stage four breast cancer is in a pH 3 K inhibitor trial out of Dana Farber has been on the trial for probably five years she's the only survivor here's the interesting thing she's been on a ketogenic low carbohydrate diet the entire time while she was taking inhibitor yes okay she's still on the interval and so what's interesting is I've told Lou about her case yeah because she's fastidious in this and she's able to get her hemoglobin a1c now under six which for many of those patients is very difficult talked to you you me and Sid had lunch once about two years ago this is the very first time you ever showed me the day yeah that's right we were on a computer we were at that Indian place or the Chinese place on Second Avenue that's right yeah and when you showed me those data I just immediately thought of her so it's actually been on my list who introduced Luke because she doesn't live in New York but no enough tonight I want to bring her out and I want you guys to meet her because yeah the combination of his pi3k inhibitor and this dietary choice she's made going back to your second rule right she's the outlier that is right that is giving you something to probe yeah we hopefully will have many such patients I don't know you know this is why we're running the study Syd as you can probably imagine I could spend another 12 hours speaking with you but I want to be respectful of your time I know we're a little late in the day we got a later start than we wanted and you've got a long trip home and I want you to get to see your family the last question I want to ask you really is one that I need you to be a little bit immodest with which is how do you do what you do I don't meet a lot of people that I look at and realize that on every level of their life they are better than me you know usually I meet people and it's like yeah they're better at me at those three things but I can do this one thing better and and I'm sure I could think of something I do better than you but it's many things I don't know about sense of balance I can probably shoot a bow and arrow better than you but when I think about how you balance the devotion you have to your patience to your family to your research to your writing it humbles me I don't know have you put any thought into that the fact that you created these tenants around writing is very interesting to me it says that you you aren't just a natural gifted guy that fell out of this guy who figured out how to write you know you had to work at your craft yeah so how do you work at this craft of just excellence in general the simple rules that I have is I'm a very question and project driven person if I set projects I'll usually fulfill them again it's the same set of crampon in the mountain rule which is that in order to write a book you have to write the first line of the book and inevitably that's not going to be the first line that survives in order to do research you have to do one experiment and inevitably that experience gonna not work out you're gonna do 10 15 iterations of etc to me the fundamental rule that works for me is just to throw something at the world first line the first experiment the first idea and then keep at it I keep at it over and over again I come back to it I come back to it over and over again and I keep asking questions and then at some point of time and that's another moment of sensitivity is to figure out when the work speaks back to you the experiment starts talking back to you have to be really open your ears have to be really open and that's really the skill of a scientist I think the scientist I think has or even a writer they have really two skills and that they mix together the first one is the creative step putting out the first line thinking of the idea you know I'm gonna write a biography of cancer I'm going to write the history of genetics etc but the second one is to be open enough to realize when the work starts speaking back to you and let that happen let the experiments start talking back to you be skeptical if I have a conversation with it those I think are the two skills that I sort of bring to my puzzle the rest of it is just like everyone else trying to balance eating a meal versus you know writing in two more lines stopping starting sleeping the usual well said I don't expect this will be the last time we sit down and do this I'm gonna be a lot more stuff to talk about I can't thank you enough I consider you Lou I mean that some of the other folks we talk about I mean real mentors of mine and it's it's a it's a vital äj-- it's a real privilege to call you a friend and to be able to sit down with you and just even the tiniest insight into is that your work yeah thank you you can find all of this information and more at Peter Tiye MD com forward slash podcast there you'll find the show notes readings and links related to this episode you can also find my blog and the nerd Safari at Peter T IME com what's a nerd Safari you ask just click on the link at the top of the site to learn more maybe the simplest thing to do is to sign up for my subjective lean on lame once a week email where I'll update you on what I've been up to the most interesting papers I've read and all things related to longevity science performance sleep etc on social you can find me on Twitter Instagram and Facebook all with the ID Peter attea and but usually Twitter is the best way to reach me to share your Shenzhen Commons now for the obligatory disclaimer this podcast is for general informational purposes only and does not constitute the practice of medicine nursing or other professional health care services including the giving of medical advice and note no doctor-patient relationship is formed the use of this information and the materials link to the podcast is at the user's own risk the content of this podcast is not intended to be a substitute for professional medical advice diagnosis or Treat users should not disregard or delay in obtaining medical advice for any medical condition they have and should seek the assistance of their healthcare professionals for any such conditions lastly and perhaps most importantly I take conflicts of interest very seriously for all of my disclosures the companies I invest in and/or advise please visit Peter attea MD com forward slash about [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: kE-rv-eQVjk (https://youtu.be/kE-rv-eQVjk) ===

[Applause] thank you so much I thought I would speak not about the genesis of my book but really about the genesis of this particular talk I was giving a talk on on my work my scientific work on cancer about two weeks three weeks ago and I just stepped off the podium when a woman who had a history of breast cancer and the Braca one mutation the genetic history of breast cancer that had run through her family she confronted me and she said can I eliminate this mutation from my family forever what would I what would you do what would happen if I could change the future lineage of of my family so that my children would never have to face the kinds of crises I faced in my life she was she had breast cancer herself so that's the question I want to take up a little bit it's the end of the question really occurs at the end of the book of the gene in the last section of the gene and and I'd like to begin by by reminding us that if let's say your genome was printed on a in a book format with the letters ACTG and it was printed like a book it would be seventy full volumes of the Encyclopedia Britannica so every edge of this room and flowing into the next room would be lined with with one person's genome printed ACTG si si si T like this and you'd come into and you didn't you could inhabit your own genome and the question that is that this woman was asking was an interesting question which is what can we read now from that encyclopedia how much of that encyclopedia is readable and the second question is what if we learn to write instructions into the encyclopedia what if I could say go to volume 317 over in that corner and erase one word maybe that word specifies the gene for Braca one and substitute the corrected word in its place so this capacity to read and write information is of course gets to the question of who we are and that's the question that the last half of the gene raises that these are not abstract questions for me because as I described in the first part of the book my own family has a striking history of genetic illness in the form of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder as I speak I have one cousin who is institutionalized permanently in Calcutta for for his schizophrenia and so this is not an abstraction for me when we learn to read and write information about our genomes what will happen to our capacity to understand illnesses such as schizophrenia mental illness breast cancer and other illnesses so I want to take a little bit of a journey through that through that story this reading and writing story and end up asking some hopefully provocative questions about how to enter this how we're going to enter this conversation as we move forward many of you know that the as far as reading is concerned the draft sequence of the human genome was published in 2001 and by the draft sequence that really means that we now have a template along which we can essentially read virtually every part of every individual genome it the costs have come down strikingly to read the active parts of a single human genome was you know what used to take on the order of several million to nearly a billion dollars now to read the active parts of a human genome it takes about a thousand dollars per person and that cost will come down even more maybe at by a factor of ten so we've acquired the capacity to read the genome and just to remind ourselves one thing that's told one of the things that's told us is that the difference between you and you really amounts to maybe less than one of those volumes of the Encyclopedia the difference between you and your sibling who has the relevant difference between you and your sibling who may have a lethal disease such as cystic fibrosis maybe three or four letters in that in that encyclopedia the relevant difference between you and a patient with Huntington's disease who will surely die of Huntington's disease is maybe one page and here's what's important in a time when when the when the word race has overtaken our culture and and dominated politics the difference between you and anyone else from the of another so-called human race maybe four or five pages or six pages of that entire Encyclopedia Britannica it's just a reminder of to have some humility about about how much what the genome is telling us about human beings so this was this was what happened by the 2000s in terms of reading genomes and and by the by the 1990s we were also beginning to put genetic information into human genomes this is Jesse Gelson jur he was one of the first children on whom gene therapy was attempted and attempt to put a foreign gene into his body but sadly he died of that of that he was one of the first deaths from gene therapy so it was a reminder by the by the late 1990s that although we had learned so much about the human genome there was yet much to learn so by in about a decade since that time two new questions to new frontiers have come about and this really changes the stakes of what we can and cannot do and that is that we are now entering a new world one of them is that we're reading the genome before the embryo or egg is implanted that changes the stakes because all of a sudden rather than waiting to read it as an adult you can make a decision whether to implant or not implant in embryo based on what what what are genetic sequences so to go back to this woman with the breast cancer mutation she could in principle the scientific technology exists in her case she could choose to not implant an egg or an embryo which carried that mutation that's not if we are already there that that technology already exists and again going back to Jesse Gallinger as a because a different example you know in his case the the genetic information was in it was placed inside cells of his body but that couldn't be transmitted to his child or his child's child but now we can be were beginning to invent technologies in the last five years where we can introduce genetic changes before the making of sperm and eggs and it's a quick sort experiment to make us understand why that's relevant that's relevant because now you can essentially place information into the human genome permanently to be inherited generation after generation so this has been called pre-implantation genetic diagnosis this kind of reading and this kind of writing has been called Sumati online not somatic not not the soma of the body but germline gene therapy in which case you would in you change the genetic information in the germline and this is just to remind us that you know I just I just found this found this little snippet of a book but this is just to remind us again that we now have the capacity combining these two technologies to start writing information deliberately and consciously into the human genome so so what have we learned from this reading and writing process as we move forward what we've learnt several things where here is a kind of important these are these are some natural limitations to how quickly and deeply we can intervene the first thing we've learned is that most human traits are controlled by multiple genes most common diseases don't have a single gene grackle one is maybe an exception cystic fibrosis is an exception Huntington's disease is a famous exception many have sorry many have genetic links with the exact genes are unknown that's true for schizophrenia we know schizophrenia is a genetic disease but really most of the genes for schizophrenia are unknown there's still a role for environment and chance here and finally that when we do move forward with these the idea of a genetic report card it will only give us propensity xand not certainties about our future risk so these five principles are natural constraints as to how quickly and effectively we might wish to intervene on human genomes everything that we do won't have that they'll be there will be there will be some natural constraints to what we can count Eve but that said while all of these natural constraints are being recognized in terms of what can what we can do we are actually moving forward with making deliberate changes in the human genome this is Jennifer Doudna one of the scientists is a whole group of them who's been responsible actually figuring out technologies that allow us to essentially this is this is obviously a graphic but essentially make make a deliberate changes in the human genomes as I said I used the example of a bracket1 mutation you could you could essentially redirect that to a change in the in the human genome the last piece of technology that comes into play here is that we that would all be fine we could read and write human genomes but the capacity to transmitted information into sperm and eggs was missing and really in the last two years biologists have come upon that piece of technology as well so we can now make changes we've learned to make changes in cells that produce sperm and eggs and once you make the changes if you could use this kind of making of a change for instance into a mutation that causes breast cancer you would be able in principle to create a sperm that now lacks that that genetic mutation and if that sperm was to be made into an embryo you would now eliminate that bracket1 inherited forever and that's been finally compounded by the most exciting and the most threatening idea of all which is that we can now make entirely synthetic human genomes or synthetic genomes potentially from by making a chemical form of the doctor gene so the question that's on everyone's minds is will there be designer babies well the answer is not soon we've started creating these technologies but the old questions about eugenics still apply which is that once we start entering this world we will soon begin to enter a world in which our aspirations and desires as human beings will be or will not be reflected in what kind of children we have I'm going to end by by pointing out the the idea that this is we're at the edge of this precipice and therefore the questions of what to do about it have started reverberating widely around the world and this is one example of a report this was brought out by the National Academy of Sciences to ask the question should we intervene on human genomes in a way that allows this intervention to carry forward in generation after generation and I'd like to end by reading this this this point which is because germline genome edits would be heritable and now you know why their effects could be multi-generational as a result both the potential benefits and potential harms could be multiplied in addition the notion of intentional germline genetic alteration has occasioned significant debate about the wisdom and appropriateness of this form of intervention because these include concerns about diminishing the dignity of humans respect for their variety failing to appreciate the importance of the natural world and a lack of humility about our wisdom and powers of control and altering that word or people within it and so the shocking thing about about this report which really made people think take a step back and think was that they concluded that in fact for the first time they did think it was permissible to make germline genome edits in human sperm and eggs under these conditions that there'd be no other reasonable alternatives that the genes result in a serious disease of conditions so-called extraordinary suffering and that they have a strong predisposition to that disease or condition so the genie of the gene is now it at least by divided by this recommendation of this report technically out of the box we can now allow to consider making genetic interventions in humans and the question that I will leave us with is a question that I think all of us need to participate in which is what is the future of an organism that is learned to decipher the code of its own instructions that's the question implicit in the gene and I hope that we can use the book in many other books to really think about what happens next thank you very much [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: nQDQOfBpB3w (https://youtu.be/nQDQOfBpB3w) ===

It is truly our pleasure this evening to bring you Dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee, a cancer specialist and researcher who is on the forefront of discovering new treatments using innovative biological methods. A Pulitzer Prize winning author, Dr. Mukherjee has been equally energetic in writing the story, if you will, of cancer, a disease that sickens and kills millions of people around the globe each year. Tonight, he will be talking about his newest book entitled The Gene: An Intimate History, which debuted at number one on the New York Times bestseller list. We have asked Roy Jensen to introduce tonight's speaker. And in my conversation with him earlier, he just wanted me to say here's Roy and let him come out, but I think he he warranted a bit more of an introduction than than that. Um Dr. Jensen was born That's a true story, by the way. Was born in Kansas City, Kansas and he earned his bachelor's degree in biology and chemistry from Pittsburgh State University. He graduated from Vanderbilt University School of Medicine where he completed his residency in anatomic pathology and a fellowship in surgical pathology. He subsequently was appointed assistant professor in the departments of pathology and cell biology, later earning promotion to associate professor. In 2004, Dr. Jensen returned home to Kansas where he was named the William R. Jewell, MD Distinguished Kansas Masonic Professor, director of the University of Kansas Kansas Cancer Center, director of the Kansas Masonic Research Institute, and professor of pathology and laboratory medicine, anatomy, and cell biology, cancer biology, and molecular biosciences. He currently has over 150 scientific publications to his name. And he has lectured widely on the clinical aspects of breast breast cancer pathology. Since becoming director of the University of Kansas Cancer Center, Dr. Jensen has recruited and led a truly world-class team, which resulted in the center achieving the status as a National Cancer Institute designated cancer center. And I can't think of a better person to deliver this this introduction to our speaker. So, please help me to welcome Roy Jensen. Well, thank you very much, Clarence. It is my pleasure to uh uh introduce our speaker tonight. And um when Victor asked me to do this, I was absolutely delighted uh for a couple of reasons, one of which is uh I was really happy uh to be able to uh come to an event uh for the Hall Center for the Humanities. Uh it is a a critical uh part of our cultural community uh here in Lawrence and really across all of Kansas City. But also um uh the other reason is that uh I have heard uh Sid Mukherjee speak on several occasions. And uh you are truly um in for a treat uh tonight. In addition to being a world-class uh cancer clinician and researcher and uh Pulitzer Prize uh winning author he is an incredible uh storyteller. And he has chosen to devote um that aspect of his life to really talking about uh the intersection of science and society and how that um collision uh impacts uh all of us. And um at the um at the reception uh before uh this lecture, he was telling us that um this latest book that he's going to be discussing tonight is going to be part of a three-part series. And uh I I won't uh um steal any more of his thunder than that, but I was delighted to hear that uh he's going to be continuing uh in this vein of really helping to illuminate uh some of the most important issues that we face uh today as a society. So, without further ado, I would I'm delighted to introduce to you Dr. Siddhartha Mukherjee from Columbia University. Thank you for that very warm introduction. Um and thank you everyone for coming. Uh many of you might have expected a an abstract talk about medicine and science and the future, which um I will certainly try to deliver. But let me begin by asking you to just have a quick look at your neighbors. Just acknowledge who is around you because I'm going to ask you very s- in all seriousness, I'm going to ask you two or three questions. And I want you to think about them. You're welcome to answer them. Raise your hands if you want to. If you want to abstain, that's fine. How many of you want to know the height of your unborn child? The future height of your unborn child. You don't know your child is about to be born and maybe in 20 years from now, a genetic tester, counselor, private company says that with a great degree of accuracy 60, 70, 80% I can predict for you the height of your unborn child. How many of you would sign up for such a test? Raise your hands. Look around. Okay? Question two. Um you have two children. Um and far from being able to predict with that 60, 70, 80% accuracy we now drop the odds to 5 or 10% but the consequences are quite serious. So, how many of you would choose to know if your child carries a 5% say risk of a severe psychiatric illness in the distant future? And maybe we know that there are no treatments right now, but 10 years from now there might be new treatments for this. Raise your hands. Look around. Okay, these are uncomfortable questions. I'm sorry. But they're important questions. Question three. 20 years from now our society has changed fundamentally. We routinely have in vitro fertilization um and in that process um we sequence the genes of these pre-implanted embryos, embryos before they're implanted. Are you comfortable with a world in which we sequence these embryos and would you be okay with the idea that we eliminate an embryo say where we detect a 5 or 10% chance of a future risk of cancer and that's the only thing you screen for. You don't know whether this embryo happens to be the one that will be productive, the president of the United States, a creative genius, etc. Are you comfortable with a society where we screen such embryos and decide only to implant embryos where we know that the risk of cancer is diminished from 5% to 1%. Who's comfortable with this society? You are. Yeah? Several people are. Raise your hand. Be proud of it. On the on the idea. Yeah? Couple of hands here. Okay. So, I'm going to talk today about um far from talking about what you might consider some abstract ideas. I'm going to talk about ideas that are very relevant to us today because these kinds of questions are questions that we will, I think, face increasingly as um physicians, as human beings, as scientists, but also, of course, um in society at large. Um I will talk about cancer because I think the payoffs of of genetic the genetic understanding of cancer is deep and consequential. But I will also want to talk about what might happen as we broaden our understanding widely outside very small realms of cancer and talk about um how what it means to each one of us individually. Very widely speaking, I want to talk about genetic prediction and manipulation. I want to talk about deep learning. And I want to talk about this idea of precision medicine for cancer. What does it mean What does it mean now that we begin to understand or have begun to understand cancer in a much more fundamental and rather precise way in individuals? And one of the things I want to show you, of course, is that these things these three ideas um the um the idea that you can read much, much more deep information about the human genome that was previously possible. The idea that you can use computational algorithms to understand pieces of that information that were previously invisible to us. And the level of comfort that we have or discomfort that we have, once we unleash our computational overlords on our own genomes, what that might do to our societies, what that might do to ourselves. Whether these will create deeper inequalities, whether they will solve diseases that we've only been hard have been hard to solve. And I also want to talk about the rich payoffs, the idea that you can use these this understanding to create new medicines in cancer and diseases, neurological diseases, heart disease, things that we've struggled to cure and treat in the last few decades. So, before we do all of that, I'm going to delve into a little bit of history, tell you a little bit of a story because this is the story of this book of of my book, but also it's the story the larger story of the of of the human genome. The story begins in a strange place. It doesn't begin in a laboratory. It doesn't begin in an university. It doesn't begin in a standard place that you might imagine the most consequential and I would argue the most dangerous idea in the history of in the recent history of science came from. It begins in a monastery. It begins in a monastery. I I spent time here. I spent a week and a half here 6 years ago in a small town called Brno. And that's where in this walled garden a small area in this room over here, this corner room overlooking the walled garden a man named Gregor Mendel began to perform some experiments. He was a monk. He had been rejected multiple times from university education. He was a failed biologist, which is should give us all a lot of reassurance that you can essentially write the most important paper in the history of biological sciences having failed your examinations in biology. But here he was. He was a basically he was a monk and he was a substitute teacher. And he began he began to experiment. We think, although we're not sure, in this little plot of land with which is weirdly enough planted with gardenias. Um But anyway, but he of course Mendel began to plant peas. Why you would take Mendel's garden and put gardenias in it, I don't know, but anyway. Um but Mendel began to plant peas and he made in 1864, 1865 an incredibly important realization. And that realization was that heredity the fact that you and I resemble our parents somewhat um that is carried not by some kind of miasmic substance, some kind of peculiar weirdness but in fact is carried in a discrete form like information moving from your parents to the offspring, from your parents to you in a kind of discrete informational form like words in a sentence. You can't tear those words apart, they will lose meaning. You can't scatter the letters apart, they will lose meaning. Like the word word it is inherited in fullness from your parents to your offspring, to the children. And Mendel described all of this just by looking at in great detail by looking at peas. And it had many consequences. He realized that in every generation information in this discrete form not in the kind of blended form is moving from one generation to the next. Now, just to contrast this with a very simple idea which existed before Mendel, people thought that your nose or your eyes are some kind of intermediate between your father's and your mother's nose and eyes. And this was human intuition for generations that we were the products of some kind of blending that the genetic information was taken from your father and you from your mother and blended in some kind of biological blender and your nose came out of that. It's a very intuitive idea. It makes a lot of sense. Except of course it has one big problem. It takes you 2 seconds to figure out what that problem is. And it's called gender. Right? So, it couldn't possibly be true that in every generation there's some kind of blending going on because otherwise our anatomies would become genderless. So, there has to be a reason that you and I are inheriting information from our parents that is somehow that is somehow kept generation upon generation intact. And it's astonishing that would take Mendel in 1864 several thousand years after many of the fundamental tenets of biology had been discovered to essentially rediscover this idea that of course that information, hereditary information, the thing that makes us that gives us our anatomy, our physiology, our traits, our our and by extension our identities is not being blended in some kind of biological blender, but is carried out in discrete in this form that reproduces itself generation upon generation. That's the only way you can explain how gender, male, female remain anatomically, physiologically remain uh intact as it were generation upon generation. There's no other simple explanation for that. What's interesting to me about that story about the story of the discovery of genes as a fundamental unit is that soon after Mendel had discovered this biologists who worked on genes in the early 1900s were speeding forward a little bit. In the early 1900s began to realize that this was a powerful and dangerous idea long before they knew what it was. What carried this information? How was this information transmitted? What was its relevance to diseases like cancer or metabolic diseases or diabetes? What was its relevance to of this information that moved from parent to offspring long before we knew all of this. The movement to use that information to discriminate between human beings, to make to to identify those who were weak versus those who were strong already was being practiced. Here a couple of examples of that. It's interesting that the first the most powerful examples of what we call eugenics, the idea of using genes to understand and thereby the hope to create a better society by using genetics was actually born very soon after Mendel. It was born in the UK. It was born in England and led really by a man who coined the word eugenics itself, Francis Galton. Galton was a cousin of Darwin's. And while Darwin was thinking about evolution Galton was thinking about social evolution. How can we make better societies? And of course one way to make a better better society he thought was by selecting selectively breeding the best together. By selectively breeding the people who were the best adapted, the best looking the the the the the brightest, the smartest. These were Galton Darwin's own ideas. Um so, this was he this was so called positive eugenics, the idea that you would use this feature, the selective breeding of human beings to create better humans, better societies, better races, better countries. Um The idea then morphs and comes to the United States. Now, recall that we haven't even spoken about Germany yet. Um in the 1910s and 1920s where these kinds of advertisements are popular. You would open up magazine and see something like this. And in the United States it morphs into a kind of practical realm. In the United States it becomes moves from selective breeding to selective sterilization. Why don't we sterilize women or men, but of course women predominantly, who are likely to carry defective traits into the next generation and thereby remove their influence from future societies. This is Carrie Buck. My book is dedicated to Carrie Buck. I would encourage everyone to read that history. The history is very pertinent to this state as well. Carrie Buck was one of the first women to be sterilized under this law of trying to make sure that the best that that people who were unfit to breed were sterilized. The case climbed to the Supreme Court and there was a judgment passed down which is very chilling. It says three generations of imbeciles is enough and Carrie Buck was forcibly sterilized to prevent the prevent the birth of what was then considered genetically defective mentally ill children. It turns out in retrospect that in fact Carrie Buck had really no illness. She was just one of us. But it's a it's it's a reminder of how quickly from 1864 to 1920, barely a flash of time, that the idea of heredity, of genetics, of inherency was being moved from an abstraction, something that someone was planting a monk was planting in peas, to an idea that was used as a as as of social and biological control. Here, of course, is that example of that. Um it is only after all of this and remember we still don't know what the carrier of this information is, who's carrying this information, where this information comes from. Is it a chemical? Is it a substance? What is it? We don't know any of this. We're in the 1920s, 1930s that that same idea morphs from eugenics as uh a mechanism of breeding the most uh the best and the brightest as Galton would have it in the in England to eugenics as a uh sterilization effort against uh women who carried uh what was thought to be genes of imbecility and other weaknesses. Um and ultimately it morphs to its most macabre form, which is the form that we remember it today, which is uh Nazi Germany. Here are uh here's a Nazi physician measuring twins. Here is um actually one of the most interesting images that I found while working on the book. Um um SS cadets, you can see a swastika um in this man's hand um watching on the blackboard. And if you look in the blackboard, um the man who is the um a captain of the Nazi uh party um has Mendel's laws and Mendel's uh uh diagrams up on the blackboard. Um here is from the United States a better babies contest. Some of you might remember these better babies contests. Um here are babies being judged for being the most eugenically fit. Um they are being judged for future the idea that you would create a future race where this would now become um racially cleansed and therefore superior um as a mechanism of social control. Barely, as I said, 40 years after the discovery of the idea of the gene itself. One of the consequences of the war was that it brought a sense of shame to this project. A very important sense of shame to this project. Um an embarrassment because of the Nazi excess of it. But what what one of the things I want to talk about is that it never fully decapitated the desire. The desire to improve ourselves, the desire to improve our societies, desire to improve our own children through control of heredity is an ancient desire. And that's why I asked you those first few questions to ask ourselves about what we really desire. What do we desire? What kinds of things are we going to allow our societies uh to move into um as we move forward into understanding more and more about ourselves. Keep that thought in mind. So, I'm going to go back into the history. I'm going to bring you up to to um quickly. I'm going to bring you up to where we are today and then go back into these questions that I had just asked you before. So, um the explicit eugenic desires of the 1920s and 1930s were contained partly because of the excesses of what happened in Germany in the 1930s and 1940s, the extermination of human beings based on eugenics. This the the final that the the progression from better breeding to sterilization to extermination was a was of course a step way into the abyss of eugenics. And by the 1940s, we had decided as societies to keep aside those questions, move them away, and instead concentrate on what was it that was transmitting this information across generations. And that, of course, turned out to be a molecule that was very unknown to most biologists called DNA. If you said the word DNA in the 1920s and 1930s, if said you were working on DNA, people would say, "What a weird thing to work on." Um it is a strange molecule, not interesting, probably some structural component of uh the human body. Who would have thought that this would be the carrier of information? But in fact, this is a picture of Rosalind Franklin, whose birthday we celebrated a few months ago, um looking down a microscope and taking photographs of the substance that she and others by that time had known and had established was in fact the molecule that Mendel had identified. Mendel didn't know any about the molecules, but the but the substance that lay behind uh Mendel's uh idea that heredity was transmitted across generations. And the final structure of that molecule was solved in the 1950s by Jim Watson and Francis Crick. And here is that first model of that molecule, um a double helix. Um all of us contain every cell in our bodies contains this double helix. If this double helix was in a single cell was expanded out it would be it's and and put all together in a long chain, it would be several meters long. And each cell of our body contains this information, this twisted double helix, and condenses it many fold, almost a million fold, into that cell. And that information tells the cell how to behave, what to be how to act, and it gets transmitted from us to our children through sperm and eggs. And that is of course the secret behind the transmission of information from one generation to the next. Now, if I took your um genome uh it would contain this double helix, obviously in this double helix form, this chemical form. It would contain 3 billion letters of uh of DNA written ACTG. And if you think about that, if it was standardly printed on an encyclopedia, it would be about 70 full sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica. One human being's genome. So, all the walls you can imagine in this um in this room would be lined with your genome. And if I wanted to move to your genome, I would have to make another auditorium this size and line all the walls again with the encyclopedia of your genome and so forth. So, each of one each one of us carries within our bodies one such 70-set Encyclopedia Britannica. Now, we knew this, we began to understand this, and we also began to understand that you could pick out one volume, one page, and it would be inscrutable to us in the 1960s, 1950s. It would read ACTG CCTG and so forth. We would have no meaning behind all of this. But how does this encyclopedia specify us? How does it specify us in our uh our the the structure of our body, our forms, our cells? And does it also specify things that are beyond simple, not just the shape of your nose, not just the color of your eyes, but of course the propensity to develop diseases? Does it specify fate? Does it specify the capacity to develop um mental illness? Does it specify our choices? Does it specify identity? How much of identity? How does it interact with the environment this code that each of us carries and make us? These are the kinds of questions that we began to think about in the 1960s and 1970s. We didn't know the answers to. And as we understand the answers to these questions, on one hand, we acquire the capacity to cure and um and deliver promises for incredibly important diseases. I'll talk about that. But also it opens up deep questions about who we are and what we need to know and how much we are willing to know about um the future. But back then to the question of, "Okay, so you have this encyclopedia. Each one of us has an encyclopedia. How does it make us? How does that encyclopedia, which is a kind of information, ACTG CCT CCT, so on for 3 billion letters. How does that make human beings?" Well, the simple answer is that it makes human beings uh it makes animals, organisms by creating messages, and those messages ultimately uh become functional. Those messages become actualized. Um the difference between Sydney Brenner and Jim Watson the difference between younger Jim Watson and an older Jim Watson, etc. are because the same the genome the they're two different genomes in two different cases. They have interacted with the environment with two different environments. They've specified functions, and these two functions have ultimately translated themselves into two very different people. And there were molecular correspondence to this. You don't need to know all the details, but the point is that the gene was carried in DNA as I just said. This message is RNA, and the form and function is a mixture really of RNA and protein, but really is this this piece of it. The scientific details are unimportant. The most important piece is that somehow or this somehow or the other, for most uh purposes, this Encyclopedia Britannica, 70 volumes of it, gets that message, the information carried in it, much like a computer gets translated into real words, real information, and get then gets actualized in our bodies. And um work done by several other people, this is work done by Marshall Nirenberg, we learned to read the how this information we began to learn to read how this information actually gets actualized. And by the 1950s and 1960s, again, this idea that DNA makes a message, makes a protein um was was made obvious. There was one last thing we need to know, and that's important, and that is that this is a dynamic process. Here's the best example of the dynamism of this process. This creature which looks nothing like this creature, both of these have the same DNA. Their information is exactly identical. So, somehow or the other in this state the genome of this um caterpillar reads out caterpillar and within the within the matter of several days, um several hours, that same genome is read out to make a butterfly. And if you understand this, you begin to understand how you can have thousands of different cell types in your body, but every cell carries the its own genome. Your liver cell, your brain cells, your nerve cells, your blood cells all carry the same genome. They interact, this genome sort of expresses itself, this encyclopedia makes different versions of itself. It actualizes itself differently in different cells and different organs, and that is called gene regulation. So, by the 1950s and 1960s, we had realized all of this, that there was a master encyclopedia that we carried in our cells. This master encyclopedia uh allowed the creation of very different forms by reading out subparts of it. But in fact, despite that, the that the master message, the encyclopedia remained the same. But the question was there were two questions, could we read the actual letters? And number two, could we change the actual letters? And that's what I'm going to spend the rest of my talk thinking about. What if we learn to read all of this its information, and what if we then began to write some of this information? Um the reading of the information began in the 1970s when uh Fred Sanger deduced some mechanism, you don't again need to know about the details, but to really decipher what the actual code was. So, all of a sudden we began to read A C T G C C. We we began to understand what the actual manifestation of the code was. So, you could say, "What is the code in on page 370 of your encyclopedia?" It was unknown to us, we knew there was a code, it was unknown to us, but we began to read that code. So, I call that reading genetic information. Um and the second part of that was that we began to find mechanisms in science to change genetic information, to combine it from one to the other. I'll give you the simplest example. What if I took um your encyclopedia, took page 370, and swapped it with someone else's? Move those two pieces around. It would be like writing a new volume of a new encyclopedia, correct? So, by the 1970s, we had just begun to do this. We had just begun to find ways to sequence or read the human genome and we had just begun to create ways to swap the human genome. And this already had many many consequences. I'll give you the simplest consequences. Take a medicine like insulin. A medicine like insulin, you it's very hard to extract. But what if you could make you could take human insulin, tear that page out of the human encyclopedia and put it into a bacteria and make the bacteria make human insulin. Or make the a yeast or some other cell make human insulin. All of a sudden, you've just essentially swapped one gene from one organism to another. You can move genes across the um the biological kingdom, and you begin to invent a whole universe of new medicines because because you've taken torn out one piece of the encyclopedia, moved it to another animal, moved it to another plant, and begin to manufacture it. In fact, this is work done by Herb Boyer, Bob Swanson, who was a was a venture entrepreneur capitalist venture capitalist. And here they are actually showing how you can on a blackboard they're showing how you how they started making thinking about making drugs like insulin. Obviously, this reading and writing must create fears about who we are as human beings. This is a comic strip that I found from the 1970s um in which uh the the fear is um what would happen if we if we started swapping this information without control. The idea of the evil brotherhood of mutants. Um what would happen if you started moving uh information from one organism to the another organism, making i- i- not by natural means, nature makes mutants all the time, but making mutants um by artificial means, by tearing out words, moving words from one um one encyclopedia to another. Um and what would happen when you began to understand human diversity um in terms of these kinds of uh methods? What would happen when you started asking the question, "What's the difference between this human being who is obviously much shorter than the rest of us, and this human being who's a physician who carries um uh genes that make him or her much taller than these patients that he or she is treating?" What would happen between those differences? What if we could read those kinds of ideas? That's why I asked you a question, "How many of you would like to know about the height of your future child?" And this reading and writing of information, this is my mentor, Paul Berg, who was one of the first uh people in medicine to start swapping genetic information between organisms. He invented techniques to say, "Take a gene from a human being and move it into a virus, or take a gene from a virus and move it into a bacteria." And the fears that that created, this is Fred Sanger who So, I call this writing, I call this reading. The fears this created, of course, went back right back to the great fears of the 1920s, um which is the fears of eugenics. What if we stuck this information, used it incorrectly? Would we start worrying about creating the so-called perfect race? So, this is where we sat at the edge of uh reading and writing in the 2000s. And then we pushed, we moved over that edge. We went over the edge because we really started reading and writing human genes in a way we hadn't before. This is the draft sequence of the human genome published in 2001. Uh the cover of a a magazine, the Science magazine. It was the was the sequence of the of the human genome, the draft sequence of the human genome. The first fully read sequence. Obviously, there's some pieces that are still missing, but um but the first fully read sequence, near fully read sequence of the human genome. I I I find it very interesting that all the people in this um picture none of them have disease, or at least obviously disease. Um they're all examples of human beings. Um this guy looks like George Clooney, by the way. Um uh but uh but all of them um are um all of them, of course, signal the idea of normalcy. Um and this was the the draft sequence of the human genome. This was the re- beginning of our reading revolution. So, what did we learn from all this reading? We learned a lot. Number one, we learned that most human traits are controlled by multiple genes. Um very important thing to realize. Your nose, your eyes, your the color of your hair, your height, um aspects of who you are are controlled by not one gene, typically, but by multiple genes. There are exceptions to this, obviously. And therefore, as a consequence, most common diseases are polygenic. By polygenic, we means multiple genes. So, heart disease, cancer, most common diseases that we encounter, aside from the rare diseases, um are controlled by multiple genes. We should know all of these facts, actually. These are going to be principles that allow us to tackle the questions that I asked you to start with. Many diseases have a genetic links, but right now, we're still in the reading phase. We still don't know the exact genes for most diseases, and we certainly don't know most most genes that govern um fundamental aspects of human normal human traits, height, um hair color, uh eye color, and so forth. This is a very important um um equation. Um I think it's sort of like the equation that governs fundamental laws of physics. The equation that governs fundamental laws of biology is that genes plus environments plus chance gives rise to traits. Most human traits, I mean, really need to understand this. Most human traits are not governed entirely by genes, are not governed entirely by chance, but like by a combination of this. In contrast, some things are highly genetic. So, in some traits, genes will dominate. In some traits, environments will dominate, and occasionally chance will dominate and determine what our ultimate traits are. But, we can ask this question feature by feature, disease by disease, trait by trait. So, in other words, if someone asks me the question, "Is it nature or nurture? Is it gene or environment or chance?" I immediately ask them back the question, "Well, what are we talking about?" Just to give you again classic examples, most of gender anatomy and physiology has a genetic component, whether you are born in Antarctica or whether you're born in um Tanzania, fundamental features of male and female biology for the most part will be governed by genetic components, the anatomy and physiology. There are other aspects of gender identity features, human identity that will be governed by some combination of genes plus environment plus chance. There are aspects of diseases that will be governed by environments and chance, and this will go on over and over again. So, whenever people ask me the question, "Well, is it nature or nurture?" I always say I always ask back, "Well, what feature are we talking about?" because it's going to differ from feature to feature. And we can identify It's not a null question, but it's a question that's very dependent on what we're asking about. And as a consequence of all of this, if we do were to imagine a genetic report card, this gets back to the first question that I asked in in the beginning, "What if I gave you a report card that said, you know, you had a 5% propensity to develop a lethal disease or a terrifying psychiatric illness?" That genetic report card will usually be given in the form of propensities. It won't be A plus, B minus, C plus. It will be you'll have a 20% chance, a 10% chance, a 5% chance to develop breast cancer in the future, a 12% chance to become um to manifest X or Y feature in in in in in your future. What's interesting about all of this is that um all of this is true. Most human traits are controlled by multiple genes. Most common diseases are polygenic. Most have genetic links, but the exact genes are still unknown. The genes plus environments plus chance gives rise to features, and that we generally will give rise to only propensities. But, what's interesting about this is that our computational power, our understanding of where genes is going for some features is reaching the place where we can actually start predicting. And here is exactly the question I asked you before. This is uh something that came out 2 weeks ago, and it took me by surprise. This is a genetic predictor of human height based on genes alone. So, here is the actual height of a human being, and this is the predicted height of a human being. And obviously, if it was exactly correct, it would be a straight line up like this. These are about 2,000 human beings. What's shocking to me is this curve doesn't look like a mess. It looks pretty good. Um and the for statisticians here, it's not great. This R value is .64. You could make have some arguments with it. Obviously, there are people that are off the straight line, but it's not bad either. And that's what's shocking to me, at least. In other words, in this experiment, they knew nothing about a human being except for the sequence of their genome. And based on that sequence alone, they predicted one feature that we find pretty complex, human height. And they could feature predict that just by reading that encyclopedia. They read it the the encyclopedia was was predictive of uh human height. Why does this matter? It matters because it has consequence for virtually every human disease. It matters because we are trying to understand maintenance and risk. It also matters because um we really need to figure out how to deal with things like insurance. What if we were to predict our own risk uh in the future? How would we insure anyone? How on Earth could we insure anyone if we knew began to understand what the risks were in the future? Um So, that part is about reading. What happens when you begin to read? But, in the midst of all of this, we're also beginning to write. And by write, I mean, remember I said you can change the actual content of the encyclopedia. Um I've called this loosely writing the human genome, and these are early days yet, but these are some scientists. This is Jennifer Doudna. Many of you How many of you have heard of the word CRISPR? So, virtually everyone. This word was obviously not even heard about 10 years ago. Jennifer is one of the inventors of CRISPR. She's a colleague. We actually My own lab works on CRISPR a little bit. Um I'm doing a talk with Jennifer uh in January. Um but, in brief, again, now we have the analogies intact. Um here is a mutation that causes breast cancer, and here's a schematic in which you could go into the encyclopedia, and potentially in some cell, maybe an embryonic cell, maybe the cell of an embryo, you could correct that mutation. You could erase that. Go to page 375 in that encyclopedia. Go to page 375, paragraph four, and where it says C C T G C, make it C C A G C, or something like that. And on one hand, you and I can appreciate how powerful that would be to eliminate terrifying diseases or terrifying risks of terrifying diseases, breast cancer, pancreatic cancer, um neurodegenerative diseases, Huntington's disease. But, what if we just extended that concern outside and began to think about changing fundamental features of human identity? What about someone who wanted to have a very tall child? Should we allow that? Or should we say no? And so, in other words, a combination of embryology and gene editing techniques um have really pushed us to a point of time where we really have to take these questions quite seriously. How should we allow ourselves to intervene on the thing that we consider most human of all, or one of the things we consider most human of all, which is the genome? Um here's a slide that I find fascinating. This is from mouse cells, but very important because here are the mouse cells. These are the cells you can genetically modify, and of course, they're being coaxed and developed to form these cells. And this can be done with human cells. And these cells, anyone know what these cells are? These are sperm. So, this is a cell. You can modify this one. You can edit its genome. You can change, like I showed you here, you can erase, you can read, you can write, and you can now use those cells to make the very cells that form the basis of our um of the of the next generation of human beings. And therefore, you could do things like the questions I had asked you before. What if you read, what if you created, what if one created um not one embryo, but several dozens, and sequenced all of them, potentially change some of them, and you had the capacity to selectively implant only the ones that you wanted to change or you had changed already, so-called preimplantation genetic diagnosis. These questions have not fallen on flat ears. Um they have been taken up at the highest levels of concern um in the United States. A very large committee met um several months ago to ask the question, "Well, what should be allowed? What should not be allowed? Where should we stop um this kind of intervention?" And uh this was a report produced, but it'll be produced again and yet again um as we move forward. So, this is a this is a this is the report. I want you to read this, not the whole thing. I'm going to highlight some sections. But, what are the concerns? Why are we worried about all of this? Well, one concern is that we will diminish the dignity of humans. Um that we will diminish the respect for their variety. I like the word their. It's our variety. And finally, that there's a lack of humility. We will be unhumble in the prospect of being able to change our own genetic information. Have we started actually doing this stuff on human embryos? The answer is yes, we have. Um we have started. There have been three to four attempts at altering genes in human embryos. The safety and on-target effects remain unknown, but here's the important part. Nothing in principle stops the field from moving forward, and there will be inevitable clashes to come. And so, the committee decided there was going to be there were going to be three criteria to um develop um to allow uh human genetic This is serious stuff, guys. So, three criteria. This This is kinds of technology that makes, I don't know, Uber and Facebook seem like child's play because we are intervening on things that we hold stewardship of. And you got everyone here needs to know the vocabulary because we will have to make decisions about what's permissible and not. So, three criteria for uh manipulations of human genomes was decided. Um one is that the disease in question have extraordinary suffering. Second, that we are confident that when you make the change in the gene, you actually are producing um the disease. In other words, this is not some kind of 5% relationship. There's some very direct relationship between the gene of consequence and the disease. And third, that there is no other justifiable alternative and the state is not coercing you to do all of this. These seem like very reasonable criteria. The problem is it takes 2 seconds to understand that they're very subjective as well. Who defines extraordinary suffering? Um, what is the limit? What are the concept Where do we draw the line uh in the confidence of the genetic uh that the gene disease interaction is tight? Is it 50%? Is it 57%? 52%? 5%? And what does it mean? What's justifiable alternative and no coercion mean in when it becomes privatized when you can make the decision? The state says it's not my problem, it's your problem. But you now can make the decision to implant certain embryos. You then in 20 years time can sequence your um the the the genomes of unimplanted embryos. Who is to make that decision? Um, I'm going to I'm going to spend a little bit of time on the last phase of all of this, which again has deep consequences for all of us. Um, I'm not going to spend a lot of time on this and that is just to emphasize that if these techniques of reading were already powerful, then you can imagine that using very deep learning algorithms, computational algorithms, computers that learn, and using them to understand genetic information would be would kick this information to yet another stratosphere. Um, I have a couple of examples of this. One example I gave already, uh but I'll give you a couple more. Here is an example of um a young man that I know who has a genetic predisposition for a melanoma develop melanomas. Um, we didn't know that. There was no no one knew this. But in fact, he developed one melanoma here, a second melanoma here, a third cancer here. Um, and it turns out that there are now uh programs that will scan photographs um of you or scan the lesions that you develop and and and divide them into benign versus malignant lesions. There are programs that are being developed that will scan your genome to allow us to really incisively understand the risk of cancer. You can understand what the benefits of such therapies could be. You could be pre-screened. Um, one proposition is to use Facebook passively. So that while you sleep, if you agree, while you sleep, um your own pictures are being scanned for such at the development of such lesions. How many of you would be comfortable in a world where you could by consent give consent to the idea that while you sleep, um uh a computational algorithm filters pictures of you on social media to find out diseases that you may have in the future? Are we comfortable with that idea? How many of you would be comfortable with the idea that your cell phone begins to pick up in combination with your genetic predisposition um future risk for neurodegenerative diseases like Parkinson's disease that when you pause, when your words change, when you begin to understand what it's that a filter begins to pick up in combination with your genetic risk, whether you in fact are at an increased risk of a neurological disease. How many of you are comfortable with this invention, which uses in combination with your genome, in other words, your gene genetic you you get gene sequenced, and then in a bathtub, as you take your bath, uh an ultrasound device scans you for the earliest development of pancreatic cancer? Important um consequences for all that we think about. And finally, this curve that I showed you of height isn't an abstract curve. This was not possible before because we didn't have computational power. This in fact is this in this this uh this uh study uses deep learning and it's only through deep learning that they could get this kind of prediction of human height. So, I'm going to stop at the last point here, which is that we are on the verge of making some important developments in precision medicine. The capacity to diagnose cancer earlier, the capacity to sequence your genes earlier, so that you can predict risks for future diseases, the capacity to understand information that really we didn't have before. Those are the great upsides to all of these technologies. And some of you in this audience actually are already benefici- beneficiaries of these. Early detection, early detection with uh computational technologies, early detection through genetic technologies, BRCA1 genes, breast cancer genes that we can sequence and therefore predict your future risk of cancer. On the other hand, there's a concern that as we delve deeper and deeper into these technologies, deeper and deeper into our own genomes, that we will begin to assault things that we consider fundamentally human. That we begin to assault things that we consider private information, information that we change about ourselves. Um, I'm going to end with my very personal anecdote. My family history, I have a a history of um mental illness in my family, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. And the question I have two daughters, and the question arose at some point of time that we now begin to have, it's very early days, we're beginning to have the first genetic hints of what might increase risk of these two diseases. And the risks are on the orders of, you know, 2% increase, 5% increase, 10% increase in risk. And the question that my wife and I sat down with the other night was, should we sequence our two daughters? Um, and if both of them are very well, thank you. Um, but what if one of them, both of them being completely well, fine, no other illnesses, what if only one of them was to have that 5% increases? Would it fundamentally change the way we imagined that child? On the other hand, would it make us more cautious, more thoughtful about the future of that child? Would it make us think twice, screen better, think better, think deeply about that child? It's a question that will resonate that does resonate already within society. It'll keep resonating with with deeper and deeper penetrance. So, I've tried here to to do several things. I've tried to show you historically where we've come to. But I've also tried to show you that where we've we we've landed up is extraordinarily complex territory. On one hand, we have the capacity to deploy technologies to make medicine precise for individuals, um including genetic diagnoses for cancers, genetic diagnoses for many diseases. On the other hand, the moral questions, the ethical questions that have been raised by these technologies are deep and profound, and we don't have simple answers to them. Um, it is an inevitable consequence that we will have to answer these uh questions in the next 10 odd years. And if if all of us don't get into the conversation, we don't learn the vocabulary, if you don't know the science and the history, we'll be left out of the conversation. So, um I'm going to end here and um open up the floor to I'm sure there'll be a million questions. Ha. But I'm going to end here and open up the floor to questions. Thank you. I've been reading some in the National Geographic and some other publications about young children who uh having been born a girl or a boy very deeply recognize that they are the opposite sex. Uh-huh. Is there a genetic connection? And if so, how much or what do we know about that genetic connection? complicated question. Thank you for asking it. Um, the quick answer is um most people, I would say most people, and I think I'm being fair here, most people in medicine and biology think that there will be a strong genetic connection. Um, most people in medicine would suspect that it is not one gene, but multiple genes, so many a combination as it were of genes. Um, and uh uh uh most people would would suspect that it's it's in the future, very near in the future, we will be able to decipher what these are. I'll give you the classic example. Some of you might think this is obvious, but let me tell you what's interesting about it. The classic the the the important story is going back to the anatomy and physiology of gender. So, male versus female. It turns out there's, and perhaps not surprisingly, there's only one gene that controls it. It's a gene called SRY. If you turn it off, you go in one direction anatomically and physiologically. If you turn it on, you go in another direction. In fact, you can take animals uh in which you just change the SRY gene and they become the embryos switch like a toggle switch from male to female. So, that's the top of the hierarchy. The top of the hierarchy is one gene that controls a master gene that controls the anatomy and physiology of sex. Now, obviously, gender identification is more than anatomy and physiology. Um it involves the a kind of computational algorithm, as it were. I don't want to make this sound too abstract, but uh where you take all of this and ultimately bring into your brain the identification of whether you are one gender or both or sorry, neither or um or or the spectrum that lies in between. Um that is not we we suspect that is not one gene, but multiple genes. But, we also suspect that there are genetic components to this, strong genetic components to this. Um so, I suspect you're asking a very important and and obviously pertinent question to our times. This has been politically discussed all across the board. My personal feeling, my instinct is that it's likely to be highly genetic. One, number two is that it's very likely that we will decipher the code in the next 5 or 10 years um using, you know, I just showed you one example of a very complicated feature, height, where we've begun to decipher the code. I'll throw back the question now at you. If we deciphered that code, would you be comfortable in sequencing your unborn child to know the code? I think my immediate answer is yes, because of the amount of confusion, isolation, um just general uh extraordinary suffering that I think these people go through who are born genetically a female, say, and know very deeply inside that they are male. Because of those factors, yes, I would want to know and I would also want to know the other genes that impact not just the X and Y. I don't want to know what other genes impact that before I would actually want somebody going into my embryo. May I ask you a tougher Yeah. May I ask you a tougher question? Mhm. Um suppose there were 10 genes, 15 genes, but one of them was very strong. Would you be comfortable with technologies that in your case you would say yes or other cases people Would you be comfortable with technologies that allowed you to change those genes? I think I would be so that my child could be definitely either male or definitely female. people are comfortable with that idea? Restricting being We have enough complexities being one or the other. are and that's the point that I'm trying to raise. Absolutely right. Thank you for raising this. But, this is morally complex territory. We have But, it's not as if we can put our heads in the sand like ostriches and say, "Go take them away." Cuz we've discovered them. We're uncovering them day by day and we will continue to uncover them. So, thank you. Um I'm going to move on to the next question, but thank you. Very important set of questions. The other side, sorry. At this rate, we'll never finish the evening. So. Hi. Um I just want to start off by saying thank you. As a student here at KU, um you coming here and speaking to us means a lot. Um my question for you is um how far how ubiquitous do you think gene editing in utero will be, say, you know, 10 years down the line, 20 years down the line? And do you think that we have um a society that is adequately equipped to deal with um challenging some of the advances we make in science? Well, I just we just illustrated some of the challenges right there in that conversation. So, just to remind us, we need to rise up to the challenges because those questions somewhat have to be answered. You don't have to be answered immediately, but we need to think about them. That's one. Number two is Now, how practical is gene editing in embryos? Now, in full embryos, if once an embryo is formed, many, many cells, it gets pretty tough because you have to basically think about correcting multiple um multiple um cells, all the cells, hundreds of thousands, maybe hundreds of millions of cells that an embryo has. On the other hand, it's much more practical, for instance, in that picture that I showed you uh before, which is that you can edit genes in cells that form egg and sperm. Um and that that is much, much more practical to do for lots of biological and theoretical reasons. So, in fact, the possibility that we can come to the edge of creating gene-edited human beings is um actually much more practical than or much more prac- technologically feasible than we had originally seen. There's some major challenges still um and I've I've listed them here. Um whether there's whether the these techniques are safe, whether they only correct the genes or edit the genes of the target and leave out all the rest is In other words, only page 347, word 46 is corrected, everything else is left intact. We don't know. I suspect that that's going to be the case. There'll be a few off-target effects, but most things will be on target. So, the bottom line is that for most organisms, including human beings, um I my suspicion is that we will get to a place that where technologically it'll become feasible. Yes. Thank you. Your your examples largely make clear the potential, at least, for clinical health benefit. How do you think in terms of prospects for um these discoveries for population health improvement, particularly implications for health inequities? For what? Health inequities? Yes. Uh I've written about this before. In fact, obviously, one big fear, among the many big fears, one big fear is that we will divide societies into into uh structures where some part of the population has access to these diseases access to these technologies and thereby begins to sequentially eliminate, for all good reason, um diseases in their own children, whereas another part of the population does not have access to these technologies and continues, therefore, to have susceptibility to diseases um genetic diseases. Um That would be, as you can imagine, a deeply consequential political event if all of a sudden, not only were we become would we become unequal for economic reasons, but we would be split into two genetic societies. This fear has been raised in in literature many times, but not really fully realized, although you could say that in fact that, you know, the attempts in the 1920s what what was to do exactly this. My my my own fear is that our technologies are pushing us closer and closer to that place. Um Within the next decade or so, I think the prospect of having uh quite deep prenatal genetic diagnosis will become affordable for some people, but not affordable for others. It will be privatized um and therefore, I think we will begin to see these rifts drawn through our society. I'm very uncomfortable with that kind of rift. Um if you can imagine the poor having not no access to um genetic technologies that allow them to think about their uh children um uh in terms of genetic susceptibilities, the rich having access makes me extraordinarily uncomfortable. And I think most people in this audience would feel similarly uncomfortable. Yep. Sir, good evening. Uh I have prostate cancer. It was discovered about 5 years ago. I had surgery, then I had the radiation treatment. The PSA keeps ticking up bit by bit. I see an oncologist every 6 months to get checked out. I want to ask a question, as you have, to our audience here. I can see most people here, but those in the front might want to turn around and and uh look at the response I get from the audience. I want to ask people here, if you feel comfortable about it, raise your hand. How many people here have cancer? Let me see your hands. Have cancer or had cancer? Have cancer or had cancer? So, that's that we statistically we know that number's going to be uh 50 to 70% of this audience. Good. Thanks. Hello. Hi. My name is Mukoi and I'm a graduate student here. And I have a question that has nothing to do with your talk. Okay. Very good. I like questions that have nothing to do with my But, more to do um with sort of an observation that I have made. Yeah. Um you have a passion for making science accessible and I know that I, who are not a geneticist, much appreciate the simple language you've used. How what advice would you give a budding scientist who's also trying to do the same? So so, trying to do make science accessible, you mean? Yes. Well, my own my own advice is, you know, I I was driven by I'm interested in questions. Um uh I I start writing books or articles or or doing experiments in laboratory when I have a question that really really engages me. Um and once the question is rises to that level of interest, I become obsessed with it. I start writing about it. I start thinking about it. You know, Emperor, my first book grew out of a very simple question a woman asked me. She was a cancer patient. She said, "Why am I being treated like this? What happens to me? Why did I end up here?" Um The Gene grew out of a different question. It was the question that I just asked you. It's a very personal question. What if you had a two daughters at risk of mental illness in your family and you only wanted and you all of a sudden discovered genetic information. So, um in my case, I'm very question-driven and I think that's the simplest way in what one can become one can start thinking about communicating questions and answers to a much wider audience. Thank you. Yeah. Hi, I am Julie and I just started pharmacy school. Uh-huh. And I was wondering if you had any advice for the next generation of healthcare providers about being a good doctor in the face of these technologies and preventative healthcare. Well, I think we need I think the point of my talk today was that we need I mean many of you I don't know how many of you were aware you These questions the question that I've asked the question that I've raised some of the issues I raised must have been burning in the background of everyone's minds, right? Is that true or not true? You They they must have been in some slow level of sort of the the back burner of human kind the filaments that drive the back burners of your questions. When you're driving across vast stretches of Kansas must have been sitting in the back of your mind. My point here is to just bring to bring them right up front. Because I think they will become they've already become important. They will continue to be important and they will drive some of the fundamental observations and and concerns of the next generation. So, again, to go back to your question, there's no way that a young scientist a young pharmacologist a young physician can engage with these technologies without bringing these things that have been sitting in the back burner as it were right up front and really confronting them. What does it mean to acquire information which we didn't have before? What does it mean for equality? What does it mean for insurance? What does it mean for healthcare? What profound things can it do to our health? I mean I mean let me not sell these technologies short. Um the capacity to annotate cancer genetically and try to get get precise medicines for your cancer which is not the medicine for someone else's cancer. What a wonderful idea. Um the prospect to not have a child who has Huntington's disease and therefore might suffer might be a wonderful idea. But on the other hand, just lying next to those ideas those technologies those events are things that obviously are concerning and quite scary. So, I wanted to pinpoint those those as well. I mean we'll take couple more questions and then stop. Last two. Sorry. We could go on the entire night. I know everyone I mean this is what one of the interesting things about giving this talk I have to say is that um it becomes very quickly a talk about all of us. It involves all of us. It's involves all of our individual lives. So, it becomes very quickly not an abstract it becomes about things that are very very close. Sorry. Go ahead. Thank you for a very nice talk. I learned a lot. My question if you remove a gene or editing a gene can it affect the other genes? So, it's an important question and and So, this is what I was trying to talk about right here actually. So, we now are trying to understand what the effect is. Number one, let's say I say to you you have this 70-volume encyclopedia erase you know the word 16 on page 347. Um what would happen to all the other words? And the funny thing is we really still don't know. So, this is this question of is it on target or off target? Is it on target? Is it safe? We we don't fully know for embryos for human embryos in particular. Um there is a feeling a a shocking feeling that in fact it tends to be on target. You tend not to disrupt everything else. Um and that goes back to Mendel to some extent because these things are discretized. It's not like a vinyl record in which you put a scratch and the whole record won't play because it's a continuous spool of information. Because genes are quite discrete. They have their own they move like particles or like words. You can change one word erase the word and the rest of the sentence remains intact. Um I was at a talk yesterday where we were discussing gene editing and the example that was given is um you know in the past if you took the word the phrase twinkle twinkle little star in the past most of gene therapy that we could do before we invented all these techniques was was a kind of crude replacement. You could say twinkle twinkle little big star. Um and your cells don't fully understand that. There's a little confusion there. You have little you have big. One of the interesting things about these new technologies now you is that you can with really seems you can strike out the word little and replace it with big. So, the cell really reads twinkle twinkle big star. Um obviously that's consequential. We don't know if other sentences in that phrase in that poem are affected or not. They may be. We'll find out. But the early information suggests that they're not affected. They're surprisingly right on the right target. The whole reason to ask these questions we have seen in the experimentally if you insert one gene strong gene in a cell exogenously other gene gets suppressed. We are we This is very well known. This is very well known. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. I'm sure I speak for a lot of the audience in appreciating the clarity that you brought in your presentation. And also uh the ethical questions that you've raised. It seems to me that there's a parallel in medical science right now with these ethical issues and that comes from neuroscience where we have where we're growing capacities to by detecting synapses and averting them to stop behaviors or make impossible some behaviors such as removing anger from our repertoire of emotions. Do you agree with this parallel? Yes, I've written about this parallel as well. You know, so uh one of the most um one of the most interesting uh crisscrosses that I see of course is the intersection of uh neurodevelopmental um ideas and genetics. Um I I I read several months ago actually several years ago in writing The Gene. I read it and it's in The Gene here cuz that it's an interesting section. Encourage you to read it. There's an interesting section in which I discussed this article that I read that sent a kind of shiver up my spine which is to say that what if we could take based on genetic information or other maybe anatomical information. Remember these things converge. You can add one to the other and you get better and better prediction. You get more and more precise prediction. What if we could take uh soldiers um and identify those with the risk of PTSD even before we deployed them. Um So, some people might say, "Well, that's a good thing." Um that would help us um in so many thousands of ways uh prevent trauma. And then I began to think do you really want to unleash a soldier who's unable to experience trauma and its consequences in a battlefield? You really want that kind of soldier? That's the worst kind of soldier to deploy. So, um So, obviously I mean I I discussed this in The Gene. I'd encourage you to read this section. But obviously you're asking the question, you know, what if we could eliminate certain parts of our human emotional spectrum using a combination of neurological neuropharmacological and genetic techniques um screen those people give them therapies potentially up front. Uh obvi- It is quite clear to me that that universe is more morally complicated than you can imagine. Last question. Yes, sorry. Uh yes, I'd like to hear your opinion on what you feel the effects of trauma are on the expression of the genetic code uh anywhere from a mother who's very stressed out during her pregnancy to the more overt traumas like sexual and physical Yeah. I think we The quick answer is we don't know. Um and I think that we won't know for a while. So, here's what we do know. Um You're asking two questions. One question you're asking is you know when you have severe trauma of some sort, does it affect the patterns of expressions of your genes in your body? And the answer is most people would say very likely. Um your brain is being remade. Your You have hormones going through your body um that are changing patterns of gene expression. That's the simple part of the question. The hard part of the question is how much of those changes in genetic expression, not genes themselves, but the programs um that genes are expressed in, how much of that is transmitted to your children? Um that's a much much harder question because remember to some extent a our children their genomes are really are a barrier against this kind of information penetrating into the genomes. I like the analogy between software and hardware, right? So there is a strong barrier between software and hardware in our bodies. Our experience of trauma, what we what we experience is is our software experience. Um but it doesn't change the genome itself. It doesn't change the hardware of our genomes. And in fact, it is it we we we don't know the extent to which it changes the hardware of our children's genomes and their children. Um it's a field that's being extensively studied, as you can imagine, and there's a huge amount of controversy around it. Um some people say that you can pass some of this into your next generation. Some people argue that you cannot. Um we won't know for a while um because these are longitudinal studies. You need to study three two to three human generations to know. Um and the only answer is that we'll have to wait to find out. So Thank you. Thank you very much. Really provocative and important questions. Um and thank you again.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: nTOXjPLRqmk (https://youtu.be/nTOXjPLRqmk) ===

[Applause] thank you great well thank you so much and it's great to be on stage with you they're good my fish so your book is I'll start out but by the way when they've told us that we would be following an event with Caitlyn Jenner I almost reconsidered because it's a tough act to follow but we're going we're going to do our best your book just to start from the very beginning you get it created - Priya Bella Mukherjee and Carrie buck and those stories I realized that late and reading the book but it makes a lot of sense because their story is really suffuse the book and well me or another and I'm just curious why did you choose to look at the story of jeans through those stories and you can can you tell us a bit about both of them sure the the way that I the way that I thought about this book this book came to me because of a series of questions that were part of my first book the interval analogies what there were really three strands that come together in this book and this brings us to carry buckin and my grandmother fable analogy the first strand is the was the astonishing changes in technology particularly around genetics so let me illustrate that idea just really you really need to understand it if say your genome was written in script and printed on a piece of paper it would and it would be in written down as a book it would be about seventy full volumes of the Encyclopedia Britannica's a seventy full sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica and so every room in this auditorium every wall so in this order would be lined with the encyclopedia of your genome and if you picked out you know book 17 incest 64 looked at page 7 it would read ACTG CCT CCC GGG etcetera etcetera and of course it gets chemically modified beyond this set but that would be the core code of instructions and yet your first cell knows how to build you out of that core set of instructions so that was known now for a long time but what had begun to change in the last 10 audios and we were following at as a scientist as a physician I was following this because these technologies were coming into my own hands and into my own laboratory we began to as we as a community of human being scientists began to discover technologies that allow us now to understand the beginnings wasn't far from the full extent would understand the beginnings of what this code means for an individual human being so for instance you can now predict if your child is likely to have Huntington's disease or cystic fibrosis in a way that you couldn't certainly 50 or 100 years ago but more importantly we were inventing technologies that allow us and it really boggles the mind so let me just be clear about it inventing technology that allow us to go into volume 17 in set 364 or whatever it might be and go to page 86 and erase one word and switch it to another word it these that technology obviously affects the way we think about ourselves you this is a machine that now began to learn its own codes of instructions by this I mean human beings our machines that have begun learn the codes of the manual is becoming open to us so the question was how who has stewardship of the manual is it you is it me how do we make sense of that moment in which you begin to understand begin to decipher the manual of your own instructions so that those that that was one strand if it's ort of felt as if it was you had to write about it I had to write about it as a solution as a scientist because it seemed to me that these technologies would make the current concerns about other technologies you know social media etcetera seemed totally trivial totally entirely trivial so so that was one strand the second strand was all of that information was not funneling into my clinical practice through cancer so trying to understand you know you could you can sequence the active parts of a cancer genome for an individual patient how would that affect our the way we thought about patients etc that was the second strand but perhaps the most important strand is the one you're talking about which is that my own family has a history of genetic illness in it an illness that we don't fully understand and illness where there's definitely role of the environment there's definitely some rule of chance but skip the Fenian bipolar disorder have crossed multiple generations as I wrote this book I had a cousin who was institutionalized and permanently institutionalized in the hospital for having schizophrenic for having a kind of a deep variant of a schizophrenic disorder so this history wasn't foreign to me this was my story and so those three strands came together in this book now why Carrie buck why my grandmother Carrie buck was many of you know people who read the book certainly know but this was this was knowledge that's been around in the history books of the United States Carrie buck was a woman who was sterilized for supposedly carrying a gene for imbecility or stupidity people have feeble-mindedness it turns out when you look through her story when you look through history it was largely nonsense there was no such thing but she by state mandate she was sterilized because as Oliver Wendell Holmes opined he said three generations of imbeciles is enough so it was an attempt to purify to cleanse the American racial gene pool from Kari bucks imbecility and so against her own wishes she was taken to an operating room and her ovaries were removed in order to prevent her genetic lineage from being carried forward because she was thought to be one of the people who was contaminating the otherwise healthy american gene pool so that moment is our moment we are inheritors of that history we can't forget it we can't bury it under the blankets as we move forward into this genetic future where we can supposedly you know change the active parts of our genome or parts of our genome read and write the genome and so that that there was a there was and she resisted the idea she protested and and ultimately was you know was taken to this moment of sterilization against her will this idea of resisting one's genetic future of thinking about our own identity and fate in different ways in perhaps more humane ways was something that my grandmother also embodied because she too had to weather the buffets of her genetic history so these that's the reason these two people come together in the beginning of the book in fact when I first wrote the first draft of the book began with Carrie buck she was mean she opened the book and I felt that so the book began sort of like a foot with a kind of cold slap in your face and eventually I moved carried back to the middle because I felt that people wouldn't even be able to enter the history it was such a you know again it was such a cold wash in your face that less than you know hundred years ago in this country where we now speak about freedom and equality and and and and the idea of a evidence as a mechanism of intervening or thinking about intervening on individuals fates that you would have a woman who was sterilized against her will for carrying actually no real sign of genetic imbecility so that's a very long answer to a question but but it really tells you about the archive of this particular book one of the things that's that I didn't know before reading that part of your book is the the lengths that they went to to try to establish evidence in this case they felt that they needed for example to have evidence from her daughter that it was three generations and the testimony is amazing it's like involving she has this look and that that's presented as evidence in the pseudo scientific sort of way in which was approached as pretty glowing and and and of course the reason and in fact some of this is reproduced verbatim in the book from the original case which you can read about and the transcript of the case exists and I decided that you know truth is not just stranger than fiction is often more chilling and so I decided to reproduce it verbatim in the book because you want to know what happened what did the lawyers say you know put it in put it in the context of your own you know let's talk about ourselves what if what if someone were to say to me Kushina you have this genetic history of schizophrenia maybe we should control and figure out what children you should have in shouldn't have or even or make it even more provocative let's say I would tell you that in five years we would begin to have technologies that allow you to diagnose the possibility of a child having a future risk of autism let's say debilitating autism at the risk of 10% so based on the read of the genome the the chance that you charge the debilitating variant of water that was 10% how many of you would not who choose not to carry that child and the answer would be there are people in the audience who would in this audience I know every audience that I've spoken to would decide not to carry that child what if that number is 50% what are the number 70% what if like me you had you were you began to have the opportunity again 10 years 15 years from now to diagnose based on genetic sequencing a propensity of a child in my family to have schizophrenia what if you made that diagnosis before the child had any symptoms that I have two daughters what if only one of them both are healthy what if one of them turned out to carry that mark would it change the way you thought about them in the future you know they're they're men and women in in the world where only one child based on on on their genetic is only one child will have a future risk of Huntington's disease do they keep treat those two children you know right now the controller identical three children will be treat those children differently should we so very very very quickly these questions penetrate into who we are how will we think about ourselves in in five 10 what will 15 years from now what will our children think once we acquire once they acquire even deeper capacities to intervene on things that clearly although not unilaterally but clearly influence that diffuse aspects of ourselves diffuse aspects of our identity diffuse aspects of how we think about ourselves as I said the fundamental question what happens when a machine begins to decipher its own Mangalore so this jumps ahead in discussion a little bit but neither you mentioned the idea of you know sort of eradicating a condition before the fact before someone is born you know in some ways the history of gene therapy new you go through it in the book quite a bit to some exciting things in the last few decades it's one of expectation of great ruin and or great promise and not a lot of delivery on those things to some extent remember going through and trying to see if we could find evidence that there were fewer Down syndrome children born now for example that definite is actually a little hard to come by right so I wonder if if you think are we being lulled into a sense of false security in the fact that some of these slopes haven't been slipped down and that some of these things have not happened yet or is it a function of the technology just becoming to the point now where those things are more realistic that we should fear them so I think some slopes have been very much slipped down and PCC to use your language in parts of the world many of you might know there are eight hundred female infants to a thousand male infants it doesn't you don't need me to tell you that's a profoundly unnatural ratio and that is a in large part although we don't know exactly that is in large part because of a combination of genetic selection in other words let me just is to be very clear about it the abortion of female children babies and some degree of neglect of early female babies as well in either way either however you do it that is a dis genic process it's eugenics in its grotesque form and it's already happened it's not as if we're thinking about the future of eugenics people say oh you know what what have we come into a future of eugenics and I say we'll go to you know go to go to northern India or China parts of China you will see the future of personalized human eugenics right there you don't need to you know you need to dream about you know changing the encyclopedia of genetic instruction so some slopes have already been flipped down the promise of the potential to create cure terrible human diseases also is being realized sickle cell disease and now multiple attempts at correcting with the genetics of in in blood stem cells this is work that a light or what I do in my own medical and laboratory practice I'm a hematologist so so on so on the other hand the capacity to to really have powerful effects on on human lives what you're talking about is that the promise is still in the future the technologies are evolving evolving rapidly what I did not mention in that suite of technologies that I talked about reading and writing genetic information the one thing that did not mention was making strands of DNA chromosomes human chromosomes from scratch as a chemical in other words now potentially if you could achieve that you wouldn't have to go and erase things written into a human chromosome you could build it you could write it from scratch like writing a novel obviously you know each one of these technologies has limitations but as I said the fundamental idea that that we are beginning to open that book to read it to write it and change it is must be has to be one of the most important technological advances in human history and brings with it of course all the challenges that that really radical technologies bring yeah you put it in the context of the great fundamental sort of ideas and entities or the 20th century being the gene the bite and the atom ran down these these three and certainly it's in that yes a class to them so I want to get back to where things are going in the field and some looming issues but you know just to circle back for a second to the personal component of the book because you know what what I really love about your book is something that to be honest annoys me about some Hollywood movies that deal with science but it's great in your book because you know sometimes when Hollywood believe me when Hollywood will go into a scientific subject it's there's sometimes an apologetic tone to it like you know we have to put in some personal interest in this world people won't watch it you know so we'll throw in a love interest or you know family conflict and sometimes that's made up out of whole cloth just so that you can tell the story a little more easily but here it's it's fundamental to the subject right I mean like it's you have the quote from from Homer in the beginning that your your parents blood is not lost in you it's late at night that's about inheritance right it's about mothers and fathers and who you have children with and you know your ancestors your descendants and you know some very fundamental things about human nature so that sort of leads into you you have a very evocative word in this book that I had not heard of before but I think is a way of getting into subject that's a little different and I ask you how to pronounce it abate could you talk a little bit about abate and what that your father talked about it to you and what that sort of means to you personally yeah it's a it's a very interesting and complicated word and it certainly sends a kind of chill up when I think about it my father passed away in last six months so sort of personal reflection on him too but there is no Bengali word for gene and there's a moment in the book when my father takes me back to Calcutta where he came as a refugee as a young boy and he's looking for a word for the word gene and he knows he knows what it generally should sound like or be like sound like but what the concept should convey and ultimately thinks awhile and he says the word should be upheld which means the indivisible that something that can be removed from yourself a unit that can removed out of yourself and of course it's a very lovely work from Sanskrit which refers to the idea of that which is essential to you that which is indivisible that which is so much a part of you but it cannot be removed it is it is beyond the visibility which of course is it is has resonances in the idea of the atom beyond the visibility atomistic the idea of the bite or the bit really of information you can't divide one and zero further they become unitary at that place and ultimately the idea of the gene because you you can certainly look and decipher what a gene is made of but there's a unit unitary quality to it it is a unity it occurs in itself so these deep resonances which keep coming up over and over again in ways that are important then comes the then comes the last chapter of the book because I didn't have in this book I have no idea how to finish this book and I I tried an X while I wrote various ways to end the book I try to go back to Calcutta to try to see my cousin in the it what my father used to call the lunatic asylum because he had relaxed words for it and he was so ashamed of carrying this kind of germinated seed of a flaw inside there was two of his brothers two of his brothers two of his brothers and in one of his his nephew his oldest brother Sonny Bono's so so I tried to finish this book and I was trying and I tried that's right and then I remembered years ago reading actually listening to a strand of music where that word paid was used and I'll just read it to you because I'm going to forget otherwise exist this strand of music was kind of a dancing because this was a it was an extract from a Sanskrit poem then may you know translated into colloquial language and the epilogue is called head of it so obviously the word paid is the opposite of a bid in two states to up Haden translates into eight and that means discrimination to discriminate divide to distinguish the cut apart and the poem when I translate it I'd heard it so many times but when I translated all of a sudden made so many things clear then the the poem would read the translation you can read the original in the in the book it says show me that you can divide the notes of a song but first show me that you can discern between what can be divided and what cannot you should spend look we should spend some time thinking about that idea this was written in Sanskrit in you know thousand dollar years ago maybe two thousand years ago but this idea that what is the visibility mean for us human beings and you know think about this in the context of the gene what if I told you that we were comprised of these units that we had these unitary cat gene variations that we inherited that governed our form fit and function interacted with the environment interact with chance but laid powerful constraints on our future and identity right what if I told you that these were units and that you could change pieces of this in a unitary manner which you could not do it they were all interlinked together if they were all meshed up together in some kind of whirlpool or spool you couldn't take part a and excise it or or eliminate it so the the aspiration of human eugenics the aspiration of off trying to manipulate genes arises as a direct consequence of the fact that their units as opposed to all in mesh together and yet we also know that they are in mesh together that they don't act alone they act with each other so there you have the fundamental contradiction of what what the new genetics is telling us that these things are axed together and yet they're divisible and separate up hey Dan hey you know this contrasts with each other and so I'm now going to read you again this this this this thing which really took me because I heard this I heard this song it was you yeah you can find on YouTube actually I've heard the song maybe a hundred times in my life and then all of a sudden I was writing the last chapter of the book and I said to myself someone 1500 years ago wrote this show me that you can divide the notes of a song but first showing that you can discern between what can be divided and what cannot it's an astonishing idea and of course a very important idea in in the 21st century yeah and it reminds me to of something in the book where you talk about actually gender identity and sexual preference and sort of the story of research into the genetic component of that and one of the things that was striking was that and this is out me I think I think a lot of us sort of understand this intuitively but that by by portraying these things as in some way based in genetics that that kind of helped normalize it and for some people right but that that was seen as better than if they were being chosen in some way and of course the fact that now if you can choose the genetics is a different layer to it I mean I think we're obviously entering a new era of choice the choice is now being the word choices again the meaning of choice is changing how we choose to describe choice is changing there's a line in the book whereas a choice sometimes seems like an illusion devised by genes to allow us to choose genes and that's not a laughing matter since in fact as we move into an era where the idea of choosing your child's genome becomes more tactile becomes more palpable becomes potentially more real and I don't mean choosing your child's genome you know I don't mean you know I mean small things that were already doing choosing not to have a child with Down syndrome is choosing a genome choosing to have a child with male versus female is choosing a genome choosing a child that does not have Huntington's disease or the marker country genes that would predispose this child in 30 years time to have Hunter's disease is choosing a genome of the woman I wrote a piece about this recently a woman I was at a conference at a cancer conference and I stepped off the podium and and the woman said you know I have a history of breast cancer in my family I have the bracket one gene mutation the gene variant that increases risk of breast cancer I would like never to have I would like my children never to suffer the consequences that I went through of you know bilateral mastectomy hormone therapy chemotherapy etcetera etcetera how can you not be sympathetic to that idea so how can you not say that in certain circumstances we should be choosing certain genomes and yet on the other hand looms carry buck yet on the other hand looms the idea that if we had unlit agait t'do to do this what would happen next Francis Collins and I the gene was the NIH is the first Institute wide read reading read book you know it's a new program that was launched at the NIH which in which they choose one book of through the year and they read it one week one Radian and we were on stage and Frances we were just sort of finishing our conversation and he said he's talking asked a question which I wasn't expecting he said what do you think what normal human shape do you think is going to go first and I sort of thought for about for a while and I said I mean gender aside which has already gone down the slope as it were I said height and all of you might have your own answers first of all the question is what's normal right you know we would be answers we don't know and the book much of the book has questions tries to know like a mouse at the roots of what is normal I don't have the answers I provide some thoughts about it but so those questions are but I think I will go first I will be the you know the new get the first entrance into Gattaca Empress Frances Collins known for his work on cystic fibrosis because and you know that's a condition that to my knowledge has no positive benefit for society would be great if people don't have to worry about them but you know in somewhere it's a natural condition of people is to have high let's pause for a second oh please you said something very important yeah which we need to question a little bit please you said cystic fibrosis there's no net natural them for society well okay since cystic fibrosis gene the gene variant that causes cystic fibrosis we think we don't know this comes into existence because of cholera it was selected we think that all strong evidence with is that in societies where color work where color and other gastrointestinal diseases rage gram particular population having that mutation actually protected children in in when we had one copy of the mutation those children were protected from cholera so how easily in 2017 the idea of cystic fibrosis has no benefit slips off our tongue it does right and yes in evolutionary history you know you would be so lucky right to have one copy but not the second copy but one copy of the mutant gene that means a great example of how quickly our because environments change because societies change how quickly we we change you know what our eugenic aspirations are and we didn't plan that I fell right into that so and in sickle cell meaning does it say anything it's the parasite help me out here the name is molarity right so sickle cell anemia is thought to have maybe had some benefit from malaria a number of other genetic disorders that might have some basis also be bad for one right right so so that gets to a question I was thinking of bringing up later which is you know that we have this idea of an eye just filament of genetic differences or disorders as being in some way subsets or you know sort of deviations from the normal right and and that there's the normal and then there's something less than that and they obtained in these in these things but you bring up the point that some of the genes that affect things like schizophrenia and in other conditions there are benefits to that too right there are aspects of faculties that might be enhanced by the same thing that causes all these problems so none of them very straightforward many of them are you know so again we have to use some obviously and we mean you're you're referring to this idea we always have to use some discretion in to end some discrimination later ed in talking about you know there are two strands to this right so if there are conditions as you're very well pointing out which we're inheriting that that genetic mutation doesn't seem to have any ameliorative effects you know a child with a debilitating for form of autism you know we really we're compelled to ask the question why why should we not remove this from the human gene pool so again it really depends on thinking about the deep consequence of each individual piece of this s core right and of course you know you have the natural state of our species is to have high infant mortality rates and to have no recourse when we get cancer and all these other things that we're very happy that medicines provide answers what's natural what's natural what is it not yet what are they naturally exactly right so and that's the state of anything all right yeah so so you know hundreds or thousands of years ago that that's what would have happened right and so it's a good thing that we've changed those but that's so so one thing that you talked about in this book that's that's interesting is just the way that the ideas about genetics and and what is a gene what's the unit of inheritance have changed so much over time and maybe in some ways as a cautionary tale of salability of very smart people who got it completely wrong starting with whoever you want to start with but you know Darwin had a very wrongheaded idea of what heredity amounts to so how did that fit into the arc of the book for you yeah so you know this was a strange book to write partly because the first half of this book really is a set up like a theatrical set up for the second half of the book in this particular book I really want it's very different in structure from the Emperor of all maladies of the laws of medicine which are very different structurally this is this is a harder book to write and and because the payoff comes at the end and I think the payoff is rich at the end I hope it is otherwise you can read it but but the payoff comes at the end because the payoff comes with questions about you know now that we know what do we do about it so the second full half of the book is that the first of the book is very condensed it's a condensed history we zoom through decades through era and I didn't want to dwell too long because I didn't want again to be I just wanted to get to the meat of the opposite of a second other questions you know I'll just give you a couple of highlights of that of the of the deep past of genetics it's interesting so for the longest time and I think I'm sure people in this audience remember this or maybe think this themselves for longest time people you know the idea of heredity was very intuitive for the long time people thought that you know you were kind of wearing blender of your parents um your parents your mother had certain characteristics your father - characteristics they got mixed together and you became you and it makes a lot of intuitive sense you know your skin color is often the average of your mother and father your height is an average your hair color your hair formation etc is an average but of course it took a few philosophers of the ancient world a figure that couldn't be true because if that were true how would you explain gender come with me you know that we're it creates it creates an immediate philosophical problem because why aren't all of us the average of our parents sexual anatomy our parents generous gender gender identity and so forth so obviously something more was at play and if you think deeply about that in fact what's astonishing about it in retrospect this idea that Mendel had that that information must be moving in an indivisible form is apparent from gender itself right if you really think about it they think about it for a second how else could it work how else could you guarantee that you would have male and female not across one generation because generation after generation after generation how else could it possibly work unless there was some one piece two pieces 10 pieces whatever it might be the number is irrelevant was moving individually across generations that it wasn't being diluted out hopefully because otherwise you know you can it you know Anatomy would collapse sexual dimorphism would collapse and so what so so if you're the oldest idea was that it was all a monkey was right that's right very honest illustration in the book the the oldest idea was that you know there was none of this was true so the oldest idea was that you came completely preformed and you were you know sort of a little baby in the sperm lily he folded human being in the sperm and your mother just added water basically so blew up and became your manifest self soil exactly so the female in this version was a kind of intravenous nutrient bag and the male was that there was a trim and of course if you think about that that makes also no sense for the same reasons I just told you if the male specified it the idea was that the homunculus gathered information from the body and therefore formed itself like by picking out information but it's a homunculus in the in the case of a female child where did the homunculus get the information to make its an enemy if it was although a very evocative ID I have to say like in some ways because like I think one of the things you point out is that in religious terms it implies that if you believe this right that atom contained all future human beings and that there was there was a beginning that that also experienced original sin and that there is a an expected end to that that line which is kind of neat if it worked that way but it doesn't and that's why you shouldn't believe it everything the egg one worries like I said leave it so the as you said you go from this saga of understanding what the gene is to to the task of which has become you know greater and greater in recent decades of gene therapy and and where that's heading and what the moral foundation is for that so if you could just um you know where has gene therapy to your mind sort of gone in the last few decades and and where does it stand now you I think you have a pretty clear view that we're potentially at a precipice of some much more powerful techniques than existed before so if absolutely so I mean just to give you a little bit of a primer on on the idea again much of this is in greater detail in the book for the long you know once we had figured out what genes were how they where they were located how they manifest themselves in the body etc you could imagine ways in which you could take disease issue what did it with the tissue with circle disease at the consequence of a gene genetic mutation and you could put a gene a foreign gene into that tissue carried by a virus for instance and this was of course the way gene therapy was imagined in the in the 1990s and early 2000s that say you had cystic fibrosis so your whole body every cell in your body has the mutant version - in this case - mutant versions of the gene but mainly the disease's manifests in your lungs although this manifests in other organs as well so the goal of gene therapy was you know what if we could put the right gene into the lungs at least and then the lungs would start functioning again so this idea is called somatic gene therapy and it's important to know those words somatic gene therapy refers to the idea that that your soma or your body is being affected but your germline is not being affected but the genes don't go into your sperm and eggs you would still have people with that especially if you if such a fragile treated with this gene therapy in the case of cystic fibrosis were to have his or her child that's I would never have that gene corrected right it would still be they would still have the parental version of whatever the gene genes were and there have been some seminal successes in somatic gene therapy although they've been big challenges as well the biggest challenge is that it's pretty hard to deliver genes into the human body the body doesn't seem to be particularly happy receiving viruses for instance it so it's not it's tricky to do it you can and they've been some important successes sickle cell disease being potentially one of them but and you know other hemophilia blood disorders being others in which they've been attempted but they've not been so somatic gene therapy has important advantages separate from somatic gene therapy is a much more provocative and controversial idea and that it's germline gene therapy what if you could now change sperm and eggs in a way that you wouldn't be you could change the genetic information you could either deliver genes into them or you could make corrections changes edit the genes of swimmin eggs now that idea was considered a pipe ring people thought this was impossible that we'd never find technology to do this and then something surprising happened and you go through the in the book and you really need to you need to go through the story to figure out why surprising so the idea that you could deliberately change you know as I said before it deliberately change word 35 in paragraph 4 of volume 17 and set 62 change g-g-gee to CCC was thought impossible you know you can't tell a cosmic ray which causes mutations you can't go and changes that you can't say if you cut out an x-ray you know go and change just that you have no control and then something very very very strange happen it was serendipitous and it was a discovery it turns out that bacteria in exactly live under so the rough edges of the of the world right to living the hard side of the tracks they're constantly being invaded by other other organisms particularly viruses and so bacteria have evolved we didn't know anything about this this was totally hidden to us but over millennia bacteria have evolved mechanisms to resist viruses and we knew some of these mechanisms before and they were very tantalizing one mechanism of the vector had evolved to resist viruses they would cut the virus DNA as it was trying to invade the bacteria again we knew about this we knew a lot about this Nobel prizes were awarded for this information etc and then it turned out that many scientists were as we should identify Jennifer Doudna and Emmanuel Charpentier discovered that this system was programmable in other words you could program the system and in fact bacteria had learned to program this so that they could chop a piece of DNA based on its sequence in add in a directional manner It was as if it had told not a cosmic ray but a bacterial system said go and find that sequence and cut it and you'll be able to you know and that's that's the way that you can you know recognize it that that virus is coming and invading you now it just takes two steps to figure out where we're going with this which is it that Korea can learn to do this why don't we reengineer that system to allow human cells to do this so in other words why don't we reengineer human cells to say go to volume 17 page whatever whatever set whatever whatever cuts that piece of information and potentially change that piece of information using some intrinsic properties of cells so these are the new this is the kind of gene therapy that's sort of coming and not horizon which is the potential to to have germline gene therapy and just before we finish up let me just let me just tell you one thing which is an important thing the National Academy of Sciences actually after I finish this book about a month ago released a report which you should really know so the National Academy of Sciences was asked many panels have been asked I've been involved in some of them but I was not at the National hairy panel but many channels have been asked should be limitless and the National Academy of Sciences for the first time in human history said for diseases that cause extraordinary suffering if we really think that you know it for diseases are caused extraordinary suffering as long as there's no other justifiable intervention that we should be that scientists should be allowed to consider germline human gene therapy gene editing that is a big deal many of us that profit us that the Academy would say no stop but it decided it's a big deal so the question is what is extraordinary suffering who decides you know is it extraordinary to be a woman in a society there where you know women do face extraordinary suffering is that now is it extraordinary suffering to have the bracket one gene mutation who defines it so the panel has told that the standard with that standard it sells when you when you examine it becomes you know becomes a question leads to a series of questions and of course we're not talking about some irrelevant thing like social media we're talking about I'm joking okay great but we're talking about the stewardship of the thing that defines us as Ewing right so if we don't know the vocabulary if you don't understand the words we don't we don't participate in this conversation we're going to be left out and as you say you know one of the principles of pre-implantation genetic diagnosis has been that there should be a very high likelihood that the genie question would cause yes some kind of disorder well who defines now yeah ten percent for some people would be high for others who would be different so how are we on times we need we have time for Q&A okay any questions yeah Donna final front down okay there's two microphones roving around here I'll try to go to as many as I can let's start with back here can you pass this over great that sir sir I appreciated a dialogue on normative behavior and kind of what norms are and twice you kind of poked at social media which was funny but this new book sapiens that's out sort of takes a twist on normative zhh and you know imagination how this happen and it's sort of interesting to think about you know kind of the social media world is developing our norms and reflecting them on us visa vie our genetics as well because there's a sort of you know a computer social world that's happening that reflects our ideas too so I'm just curious if you think about how ideas exist in that world and then how I you know atomic expressions exist in genes and how those two interplay by the new book you mean Hamid is not sapiens is that correct it so seriously being taken so in fact so I reviewed Houma Deus for the New York Times I'm a big admirer Ferraris writing I think he said he's a very thoughtful person on the future so how these two pieces interact intersects together the future of it's kind of hard to define that it little nebulous entities but the future of let's say computational algorithms and the future of biological algorithms how they intersect with each other both of them are ultimately information rich systems if you want a very long answer to that do read my duty the review not you not to plug the review because I feel and what's nice about lying reviews is that there's no books attached to it please for meeting you maybe maybe maybe we'll go and see maybe we're going to read the hilarious book I don't I didn't agree with everything with that horizons to say about how these intersect but I think the idea is very powerful that there are two kinds of algorithms as as look I'm using the word from that book there two kinds of algorithms that are intersecting in the future one of them is genetic I want them as computational algorithms these two algorithms has a capacity to anything interplay with each other so I'll give you one concrete example how we predict the future of biological organisms including humans of course depends on an information-rich way of thinking about humans so we have you know if we sequence ten million genomes maybe 100 million genes I don't know what the number would have to be and created a fake map of this looking forward of humans would we begin to get get would we have enough power and would we begin to get information about how the genome predicts your fate in the future we have very little glimpses of this right so we know in a very tiny edge of that universe that if you inherit two variants of two mutations and cystic fibrosis gene that you will have a disease that affects your lungs your pancreas and your sperm right or your spermatic system I should say that we know if you have a mutation in a gene called bracket1 in the future you have a risk of breast and other kinds of cancers as well but we don't know this systematically and particularly don't need combinatorial which is probably the most important piece if you have gene variant a and gene variant C and D but not l inclusive of X but not like how this particular combination interacting together will lead to whatever it might be that your fate is if that principle becomes available if these if these pieces of understanding become understandable if they become computationally amenable then you can imagine an incredible power will be unleashed on on human beings the capacity to predict obviously diffuse aspects of future not just such concrete things as diseases that we know have powerful genetic links but much more diffuse aspects of our future and that is something to be really thinking about and I think that's the question that is raised well I think we're far from that place but it seems to me that the technology the individual pieces of technology which means which are genetic sequencing creating very rich fate maps of human beings doing this across multiple populations and then finding computational tight enough computational power to imagine this in what would be called multi-dimensional space and figuring out how they predict each other or whether they do critically these individual pieces of Technology the data storage have come to have come to pass so whether we want to do this or not is a question is a question that I think it's worth but raising that idea of the fate map is very evocative in your book and I think it gets to the fact that we know what's both genes an environment that has an impact on disease and other things but the effect of environment is very difficult to quantify and that's right yeah you know it's an unusual thing and I'll let this idea rest with you it's an unusual thing that 50 years ago people thought that the environment would be the most malleable component right people said oh you know what we really should focus on is changing the environment 50 years later our language is changed we think that gosh you know the environment too hard to tackle let's change the genes so I mean that idea should again should provoke a huge internal conversation within ourselves within our societies you know what if what happens to society which is said our frustrations with changing and changing environments has reached a place where we think that you know let's change the you know there are two halves of this equation let's change the other half potentially that obviously has AI don't you tell you today's cultural consequences maybe there's a question right it's I'm sorry yeah I'll get a microphone and we are closing in on the end so just like a minute or two more please this is somewhat related last point you were making on you know the theory about the genetics where do you fall on the nature versus nurture topic and then I always think of you know the movie Gattaca for example think you called out in this book but um you know where yeah but as far as nature versus nurture where you think that goes and how does this interplay with the whole concept of jeans and being able to change your genetic makeup so you know my own views about this life I do think that we are discovering more and more and I hope relatively for some people a controversial edge of this topic I think that nurture influences nature in ways that we haven't fully even discovered just last week there were three important papers in model organisms that yet again show that the effects of nurture in these model organisms remains powerful in the case of the warm up to 14 generations I'm quoting the paper correctly fourteen generations were influenced so the idea that the that nature could influence nurture to use your words not across one generation not across two but across multiple generations I think for model organisms simple model organisms has become extremely powerful at least very convincing for me others are not so convinced to me this is a Hewitt sak Ontario topic people debate this back and forth but I think even even last week's recent spate of papers three you know highly detailed studies in model organisms more some in yeast and some in in worms makes a powerful argument that this is not to be taken lightly that phenotypes get reproduced generation after generation based on an environmental exposure that the original or lots of people disagree about this you know it raises the specter of Lamarckian evolution which I think has has many problems of course much of we know about genetics does not do these mechanisms but all of this said I think that the convincing data I think most people who are deniers of this idea I really have their heads in the sand we know we cannot I'm sorry we have to get to the book signing now yeah Thank You Jeremy thank you sorry you [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: nx0PmvpfQyw (https://youtu.be/nx0PmvpfQyw) ===

[Applause] foreign for being here tonight and welcome to Sunny Seattle springtime um thank you I've been walking around the parka so I'm a huge fan of both your books um and I I actually probably helped many bookstores when um Emperor came out because I I was chairing the the hutch board at the time and I sent it to many of those members because I thought it was such an acute a wonderful description of how cancer is sort of an autobio biography but tell us about the relationship between sort of at one point you said the sequel and the prequel and then how one led to the other in this new book the gene so um first of all thank you um I'm a big Seattle fan I take every opportunity to come over come over um so the gene um is you know when I finished writing um the emperor formalities and and as you know um Ken Burns and I worked on a documentary um on the book I thought I was sort of done um that I would be there was a there was a there was a um the the emperable analogies won the guardian book award um it was called The Guardian first book prize and then someone very snarkily wrote a review saying uh oh maybe this should be also renamed the guardian only book prize um because you know they're people who write one book and they're done and it's and it could be an incredibly important contribution and but that's what they that they've that they've done and achieved um and I would be very proud to be that human being but um the question that was left over from that book from from Emperor was the question if cancer is the Distortion of genetic normalcy then what instructs normalcy in the first place what tells ourselves to be what they are what tells our bodies to be um how they are um so that was the the the question left over what is the code what is the um code of instructions and then um it's something began to happen in the world that I could not ignore and that is that we began to develop Technologies um to intervene on the code of instructions so uh I I like to write books when every book that I've written sort of answers one question and the question that came up was very obvious what would what happens to a machine that begins to recognize and write its own manual um what if human beings were that machine if I um if if your genome was printed on a as a book form um it would be 70 or 75 full sets of the insight to Beta Botanica so every wall for one human being every wall of this Auditorium would be lined with a with an encyclopedia and if you picked out if you went to set 45 volume 17 Page 342 it would say a c t g c t t GCC and so forth right so and that would be but what's astonishing to me so it would it it it remains largely inscrutable to human beings but obviously you're the first cell in your body knows how to build you out of that instructions and consider that for a moment it's of course and it's it's an incredible idea now that is not to say that genes are the only ways that we ultimately make up our forms and functions and identities their genes intersect with environments genes intersect with chance this is not to minimize the role of environments in chance but it is to say that there is a code of Master instructions and the difference between you and yourself the relevant difference between you and your sibling that might have who might have cystic fibrosis whose life will certainly be changed forever because of the inheritance of that statistic two Mutant versions of the cystic fibrosis genes in that encyclopedia is two words that's a relevant difference the difference the relevant difference between you and um someone a sibling who happens to have inherited in that family um the the mutated version of the Huntington's disease Gene that will certainly cause a lethal neurodegenerative disease in that sibling say the relevant difference is one page of that volume of encyclopedias and and what if what if we began to change the information what if we began to number one read the information we'll talk a little bit about that what if we began to read that information and what if we began to write that information what if I developed began to develop technologies that could say go to page 347 and volume 36. erase one word and change it for another word uh well that word could be the mutant Barack ob1 Gene that would set up your family for a increased propensity for breast cancer and that's a maybe a wonderful thing maybe this is one wonderful thing about the the promise of these new technologies but what if that was a word that um specified height or some more diffuse aspect of of who we are so these these are not sort of abstractions because in the last five or ten years as many of you know we'll talk a little bit more about it we began to invent technologies that allow us to do precisely that to begin not in not not in completion but to begin to read the human genome um and to begin to make deliberate changes in the human genome we can begin to write rewrite the code of instructions that we have and so that was the second piece and the final piece and I'll I'll talk a little bit more about that in a second the final piece is that none of this is an abstraction for me either I mean I have a family where um I have a family history that's uh live the only word I can say is blighted with the history of mental illness genetic mental illness Crossing now three generations I have a cousin as we speak institution permanently institutionalized with schizophrenia so these questions were not sort of you know far away I'm a cancer physician these weren't things that I was thinking about in the in the great distant future I was thinking very personally should I sequence my own genome I have two daughters 12 and seven um what if in 10 years from now we began to get the information that would tell you about the propensities of each of these two daughters to develop this this illness and Matt put yourself in put yourself in these positions what if your two children and You Begin began to obtain the information that would tell you about their future propensities what if one of the children were to were to have that propensity both of them perfectly well but you just but you knew that only one of them would develop at a with a 10 certainty small certainty if you knew that that one of them had a high heightened risk for developing a mental illness would it change who you were what you know would it change your relationship with your two children uh who are at this point of time say completely healthy um what if you know I mean I I began to speak to to families in which again their two daughters one daughter has the mutant bracha one you know has inherited the the brca1 genetic mutation that sets that daughter up for a future history of breast and ovarian cancer their two daughters both you know 6 and 12 years old but only one of them carries this propensity and of course the mother says to me that their relationship with these two daughters has changed completely um but now imagine this not across one gene but across hundreds of genes thousands of genes imagine being able to read this information imagine being able to want to the aspire to correct this information you know these Technologies um that we're beginning to approach will make uh Technologies like social media and Airbnb and Uber seem like Child's Play so I mean so this was that's the Genesis of the book and and I think um I mean you you write in such an extraordinary way where we sort of tell the story chronologically but at the end and maybe I'm getting to the punch line it seemed like you were really trying to make a fairly compelling case about normalcy and what is normal and I think at normalcy is the antithesis of evolution and and I'd love to explore that a little bit more because I think you made some profound comments about sickness and wellness and how we see aberration and normalcy and and that seemed to be very um so you know one of the questions that I take up in the book which which has to be taken up so just to give a little bit of background about all of this um I was on stage the gene was the nih's uh book book for the year so the the National Institute of Health picks one book um and and it's launched this new program in which through the entire Institute and all of the members they pick one book and I don't know what book it's going to be next year but but but the but the point is to to coalesce a series of conversations around the future of Health that Gene was I was fortunate to have that and so I went to the NIH and Francis Collins um uh and I were on stage and Francis said um no jokes it said what do you think what do you think the first normal feature that we'll intervene on in in the human genome and I said since if you ask me completely honestly it's going to be height um I think within the next time not a joke I think this within the next 10 years we will begin to ask the question should we start intervening on human height um in societies where there's a premium placed on human height um and if it seems as if it's some kind of far away future the capacity for genetic diagnosis has already dramatically altered societies think of countries like India and China where because of gender selection fundamentally a genetic selection societies have now you know powerfully switched um powerfully switched gender ratios in places there are 700 women to a thousand men can you imagine the destabilization that is caused a human history has not seen such a society in its in its past so this is just to give you an example these are not far away ideas that are that exist in some kind of vacuum this is now um so so your question was you know what about normalcy what about um what are my thoughts about it um one thing that I began to understand when I read read when I started reading about the history and this is obviously was inspired also by my own personal history is the question of what is normal um who defines what normal is and who defines where suffering begins um what is extraordinary suffering um is suffering is it is it extraordinary suffering to be a woman in a society where there are 700 female children to a thousand male children is that extraordinary suffering um where do we where do we draw that lines and you you created sort of a a framework a triangle in which we should think through some of those questions and ethicals and I think that's very absolutely the triangle came to me was very late in the book I I kept banging my head against uh the question of how do we know what where do we operate in the next 10 years 20 years what will we decided so I'll tell you the triangle and I'll let you think about it um so the question that's behind the triangle is under what circumstances should we begin to intervene on the human genome um and it seemed to me that there were to me uh there were three criteria um one criteria I've talked about already one edge of the triangle is extraordinary suffering so um I'll come back to that but but the question is you know diseases illnesses that cause extraordinary suffering um the second criteria is a criteria of certainty uh I I call it penetrance which is to say that the gene must cause a disease most human conditions most human traits are there's no clear one-to-one link between the Gene and and and your function reform most human traits are governed by multiple genes um height is a good example and so multiple genes govern uh who we end up being um and so at least at the first at the first outset there should be a a powerful relationship between the Gene and the feature we shouldn't be intervening on genes or genetic information where the link between that Gene and the and the trait or characteristic is weak or loose because we will have all sorts of unintended consequences so that's the second sort of certainty penetrance mapping a a kind of powerful relationship between the Gene and the future and the third one which emerges from the history of eugenics from from Nazi Eugenics from you know the United States in the United States is that we've got to let this happen without State mandate um without coercion so a lack of coercion um uh would would be an important feature um that there should be no justifiable coercion or justifiable it should it should lie within the bounds of of freedom and reason so I don't need to tell this audience that all three of these are questions where the words are demand a a deep kind of moral thinking who defines extraordinary suffering right who who who says what suffering is and where do you draw that line um uh who tells us what the exact you know where is the cutoff for the propensity of a gene to cause a problem is it 10 if I were to say to you you know um with uh I found a gene where the um um which increases as a hypothetical which increases the risk of breast cancer in your child uh by by uh makes it um you know 175 percent the risk in the general population um is that is that the cutoff is that you know do we say well you know that really the the diseases has extraordinary suffering associated with it so we should really go ahead and intervene on that and then the third idea you know what is coercion what is what is where do we draw how do we understand societies which you know is what's true in the United States that true in China are they different metrics so and I mean to that point I think it was fascinating and sort of wonderful that you dedicated at least the book to your mother and to Carrie buck and and um uh both that might be an interesting framing I mean why her why those two women my grandmother and kerrybach um uh yep well so Carrie buck and many of you know was a woman in the United States who was diagnosed falsely turned out with genetic imbecility this was a powerful moment in the 1920s and 1930s when Eugenics people think of eugenics you know the idea that you could make better Society through genetic intervention people think that oh it's a Nazi Germany phenomenon um but but you know it's absolutely not and it's important to recognize that that it's an aspiration that goes right back to Plato we've we've been aspiring to change societies through genetic intervention from the minute we began to think about heredity in societies long before the word Gene existed long before our understanding of societies is you know as the the the the spread of genes and Society so this goes way back um it is one of the fundamental aspirations to change our societies through through manipulation of heredity so um the idea of eugenics was was incipient in in writings way back to Plato it um uh it was the the word was born um through the work of Francis Galton in in in England and and you know in England in the in the late 1800s and the early 1900s to be a Genesis was to be Progressive the progressive people um signed up to the idea many many famous Victorian and post-victorian progressives were a eugenicists they wanted to improve societies by by manipulating heredity um then this idea metastasizes to the United States long before Germany um and it's in the United States that it sort of reaches a kind of manic adolescence um the um the um the idea that you know they're they're better babies contests around the United States films are made um which which are shown to you know audience of six seven hundred people um which urge you uh to get your your family history tested and and and and and Purge potentially uh uh your your family of of mental illness epilepsy um uh things like things like this imbecility um so Kerry Buck is is caught in this Dragnet um because social reformers want to eliminate uh imbecility um so her mother is caught in the dragon at first and she's you know sent off to a colony um Carrie Buck is then also the daughter um is is then caught in this and also sent off to the Colony and then the the state um the state eugenesis say that we should sterilize you um we should make sure that you don't have any children because of because you know and and this and the case climbs to um I'm sort of sitting sorry the case climbs to um the Supreme Court um and and Oliver Wendell Holmes the the supposed um judicial moderate opines that three generations of imbeciles is enough that word enough according to whom enough where enough for whom um but nonetheless carry Buck is sterilized to eliminate this genetic blight of imbecility this is your history this is my history this is in Virginia in the 1920s this is in this this idea carries itself off in the you know various parts of the United States so um in fact when I first wrote the book the book began with Carrie buck um she was the she carried the book forward first and when I read that book when I read that first draft of the book I said God you know no one's being no one's going to get through those first Pages um so uh so I moved Kerry to to the to her chronological place not to deny her historical place so I moved Kerry Buck to her chronological place in history because the book started with sort of a cold slap um and generally speaking maybe not the best uh best way to start a long book uh uh with a cold slap but um uh so so she moved to a chronological place but I wanted to Signal the idea of that chronological place I want to remind people that you know here we are talking about new technologies that will allow us to change the human genome powerful ways to control our future and identity and investigate who we are and where we're going but just remember that there was a woman who paid a steep price um for these aspirations and Kerry Buck was not certainly the only character I mean in fact your books are replete with sort of many biographies and this book I mean I loved Mendel and the whole story of the Monk and you went through Galton and Watson and Crick and Swanson and others so when you're writing I mean did you just stack these stories together I I I'm always fascinated by how you know those biographies bring a deep complicated scientific story to life and sort of what how do you think about those stories is this about a science of great men and women or is it about men and women who happen to inform great science so the way I the way the books are written yeah I like to trace the history of an idea though that's important to me um I will talk a little bit about this the the prequel and and the book on cancer is part of a trilogy which will be completed and then maybe that will that will end it end the books right something doubts um but nonetheless um the way I I think about the books that though certainly the way I learned to write um for Emperor is I make a huge uh chronological diagram of the history of an idea um and in fact you'll find that I that that some version of the diagram usually at the end of the book um there is in the gene if you flip to the last pages you'll find the history of the idea and that history of the idea I make very I ensure that that isn't a history of an idea in science I want the history of the idea to be in its fullness what does human heredity mean not just in DNA but what does it mean for culture what does it mean politically what does it mean how does how does Nazism itself have to do with what what does it have to do with this moment what does um is when we personalize uh the question of you know what how we want our children to look and feel and B um what does that mean to society those are questions so I make a huge linear map of those of that question and that's the main work of the book selecting and removing those moments um making saying that's important but that's not important enough um obviously these are complicated choices then comes the matter of taking that skeleton and making it into something readable um and the only way that it becomes readable is to find human beings who carry the story forward so so what I do then is that I take that entire story um and then make a decision at every juncture of the story who's going to tell who's going to be the who's going to tell the story is it going to be a patient is it going to be me my history is it going to be Mendel um is it going to be the first kid who receives gene therapy um is it going to be you know we the the when we talk about um uh whatever Arena that that that that I'm that I'm talking to it you know mitochondrial eve uh it's a section in the book about you know this idea that all of us are descended from now it seems if you go backwards it's gone to one single human being um uh how do you tell her story um do you conjure her up as a character could she speak that's a decision you need to make but then you know is that will that detract from who we want you know should she be left more as an abstraction uh more as a as a evocation so in this book do you have a favorite a character that's like oh I gotta tell this I mean kind of fall in love with yourself um you know every person uh in the book I'll I'll give you I'll give you a real answer but let me just give you some background I'm not trying to be a weasel here and trying to make um so I I try very hard to create a at least in my own brain a kind of an empathy or sympathy for every human being here you know the person who is driving the gene therapy trials and makes a terrible mistake The Physician the doctors will make a terrible mistake um because they they they they they really do a bad they screw it up um in in the first instance but you want to know why you want to know why what's driving them that the you know you want to know what is driving someone like Wendell Holmes um to say three generations of imbeciles is enough what is driving that anxiety what does enough mean um similarly what is driving Watson and Crick what do they want to find out what is driving Rosalind Franklin um she's a great character in the book um it's so you know so so so so that's the background to all of this I I go into these people's lives I read their letters I read there but but of course remember I'm doing this because I'm I'm I'm I'm not a biographer um actually I'm not a particularly good biographer what is to me what's interesting is the idea and the history of the idea I'm doing this in service of that chronology of that lineage asking the question over and over again so you have a favor do I have a favorite so um well you know I'm the the the early parts of the book tend to tend to live more in my life because I've lived with the longest mental is a great favorite of mine because I went to the monastery and it shows I think it you know went to the monastery you know this is I mean the ironies of all ironies right so um you have a a monk um who is studying peas who is working I went to the Garden the garden the Pea Garden is smaller than the stage right um from that place emanates the revolution in genetics biotechnology medicine the future of medicine from this from a plot of land which is smaller than the stage I you know it's an astonishing phenomenon and quote about so Europe you're an uncle a doctor and a researcher and a writer and knew a lot about this coming into the the book and it took you what five five and a half years I think I read to write this big surprises when you didn't really think you thought you knew it and then suddenly you were surprised himself is a big surprise you know he's a complex uh thinker uh obviously and he sort of Lost in the shadows we think of him as some kind of uh but his anxieties are are interesting he's he wants to he he he he he is um he fails his exam so this is um it should it should reassure us uh he fails his exam most importantly in biology um and and also in geology um you know geology has it has taught him that the Earth is not static that there are things that that the things have happened in the past that will eventually you know there's a reason that there's a Gorge here because the river has cut into the Rock uh not because God decided that that there was this there would be a Gorge it's because a natural process has occurred over time that has allowed this this thing to cut into the Rock So Mendel is an interesting character because he fails all of this all of these exams but but what's something what's very beautiful about him and you read him when you read him what's beautiful about him is that he's a very tender experimentalist he just wants to he has a small question and from this small question spins out like this crazy tornado um this idea um which you can't which of course he doesn't fully understand in fact Mendel dies without you know it's one of the it's one of the it's one of the papers that's that's barely read um the there's a there's a quote which says that you know Mendel's paper generated the most astonishing three decades of Silence in the history of in the history of science no one reads him it's greatly so here in Seattle just a couple more questions for me and then I'll ask the audience but here in Seattle and and certainly in the work that path does we think a lot about global health and particularly how do we make sure Health reaches the poorest and most vulnerable people in the world and sometimes when I think about sort of the work and Gene and genetic we're really at a place where it's sort of not focused on the poorest or most vulnerable people how does how do we make that match work and when will that happen well so so we were talking a little bit in the in the back the the idea that that genes genomes Etc are are things that are happening in some kind of isolated community in of of of the wealthy is soon going to be no longer true um vaccines we've been making vaccines using genetic Technologies now for several years um it's no longer and it's opened up an enormous arena in vaccination um I gave another example you know as we speak we're learning to manipulate the biosphere um this month maybe next month there will be the the initial phases of two experiments to manipulate insects mosquitoes um thereby trying to create genetically modified people already created them but within our lifetime we'll be we'll see the release of genetically modified mosquitoes um that will uh that may block the uh the transmission of diseases such as malaria um in the world so um and of course uh gender selection is is in fact a um a phenomenon very much part of um of the developing world so um this is not technology that is sitting in some kind of Silo in in in in in in in the Laboratories of Seattle and San Francisco and New York this is already spread into the world uh we're already part of it um and in fact it it's released in the developing World it has has occurred simultaneously um as it's as its influence in in the developed World um and so a good chunk of the book in fact almost a third is sort of dedicated toward the future I mean and which again from a sort of a biographical point of view is quite interesting that you you so thank you for pointing this out because I mean people say this is a gene is a very it was a different book to write um it's a it's an odd book because the it's it's it's it's it's it's front loaded um Emperor was backloaded um genus you have to make your way through the science first and um I I only say this because if you want to participate and you have to participate in the debate of who gets to control these instructions you have to know the vocabulary you have to know that piece of History you need to know the Nazi Eugenics you need to know DNA you need to know what all of these words mean you need to know the word crispr you need to know the word uh you need to know why these Technologies are relevant what genome is what Gene sequencing is but then what was interesting about this book is that a third of the book very perceptively you're pointing out is about the future so um I implore people who read this book get the vocabulary but then read the section the section on Race for instance um how do we know that we have races um what does it mean if I would tell you that in fact the genetic distinction between between um two human beings from the of from Africa is greater than than a human being from one part of Africa and is supposedly white white person if there's no the The genome is providing a radical platform for equality um the we can't debate that platform right so so but we but if if we if if we don't know the vocab if we don't know the words we don't know the facts in this post-fac universe um you will be misled you will use the word race incorrectly and others will come and manipulate that word just like the manipulated the word Jain or imbecile and they will convince you of wrong things there is that the genome is is is it provides us the human genome provides us with a profound and radical idea of equality we're a young species we're very young there's not so many differences between us and we can discover the differences and we have to figure out what it means to categorize those differences and and are you uh I mean one thing that worries me is you know we can talk about the conference that set up the sort of on on recombinant DNA and how do we put a moratorium on certain experimentation but the fact is we live in a world where you know you mentioned China is already going off and doing certain things and other people are going to take advantage of these various rules how how confident are you are that we're going to as a species actually put rules around this stuff well I think we'll have to put rules around it I think people you know the the idea that you can this is a free-for-all is going to be a problem but the problem but the question is the rules will be different for different people and we have to come to some kind of consensus because you cannot have a society in which in China you're allowed to intervene on certain kinds of uh uh genetic uh variations whereas those are not intervenable in the United States that would be very that would be that would be it that would be a tough Society to live in because people would start asking the question but we are human beings aren't we why is it that you know that that you can do this in China which you can't do in the United States so there will be some important convergences I think they're important but but but the only way you can get to that convergence is if if all of us know the vocabulary so again read the section on identity read the sections on Race read the section on what we know and we don't know about gender identity or sexual identity um in the book because that's the the questions that our children I think these would be questions that our children um will be debating very deeply um should we open up the uh the box of of genetically modified organisms what we don't exactly know what to do about uh how to contain them sure I mean you know let's be open about that conversation we have we we have we have hunger to solve we have malaria to solve um so it's you you can't be nihilistic and say it's all bad uh oh you know that genetic stuff is all all bad um we've been manipulating human beings we're manipulating genes forever we just have now acquired really unprecedented power to inspect um and to survey and to manipulate genes and you point out repeatedly that we're at the very beginning of that power to you and so let's open it up to questions I think people know to come forward and state your name please make the questions questions or I'll make them questions yeah hello thank you for coming my name is Welby Cox I'm a oncology hematology doctor educated here at the hatchimal UW when you started talking about um intervening to help prevent suffering most of the patients I see or have seen in my life were oncology patients the ones that I've seen that I'm so impressed by their suffering have been Sickle Cell patients and that's a disease we can we know how to diagnose we know the genetics um could you speak a little bit about is there intervention going on trying to cure sickle cell disease at the genetic level so it's important question so sickle cell disease um [Music] very important example so sickle cell disease I I think and is is likely to be one of the very first diseases that we tackle genetically so as you know very well I'm a hematologist as well I've spent my lifetime in in the in the wards in in New York City and in in Boston and every time virtually every night there would be a young man or young woman with a Sickle Cell pain crisis and as you know um the the the consequences um you know Ripple out in so many different ways the uh the psychological consequences of having a disease as a child the narcotic often the the the pain control is so complicated so what if we just went inside in blood stem cells and and switched that you know to change that that genetic uh variation and in fact as as as as you know those are the one of the first things that that is highest on the list of the trials that that um that that are going on right now it would be surprising to me if we don't have a solution to this within the next 10 odd years to sort of replace um stem cells of sickle cell patients and correct the genetic mutations now the one thing that I remind people is that and as you know very well there's a Twist to the story The Twist to the story is that we think and there's some evidence now uh has accumulated over many years that that Sickle Cell genetic variation emerged as a resistance mechanism for malaria um so that's just a reminder that um that that that in human history in human evolution things that become disease in one context can have very different um uh it's a complex what I'm trying to describe is a complex idea read about it in the in the book in other places but of course uh it reminds us that that holding grasping the holding the horns of evolution and and changing genetic information in humans is is you know great for people who suffer from awful diseases but there's an evolutionary history that's carried in the in in that disease itself sometimes not always it's a very non-linear it's a very knowledge process yes sir yes doctor my name is Victor Swann and thank you for your book it's just extremely readable enlightening and thought-provoking thank you my question is you know looking at the broad Suite of evolution and the genome are things really happening really quickly now with things like crispr and cast 9 and could you speak to that at all yeah so so um the question has to do with crispr and cas9 I I usually take a step back from this and say Chrisman cas9 are just one are two examples of the related systems but it's just one example of a system of a series of ways that we begin beginning to intervene on genomes um we're learning more about I mean you know we started my own laboratory started using this in cancer about four years ago and I was astonished of how at how easy it is um to use um we're just beginning so Christmas referred to to Technologies and and you could read them rebutter in the book they refer to technologies that allow us to make intentional uh deliberate edits in the in genomes uh including the human genome um just to remind us that was very difficult years ago um five years ago ten years ago you could make mutations but you couldn't tell a mutation you couldn't tell a cosmic ray go and change just the Brack of one Gene and revert the Baraka one mutation to its uh wild type variation you couldn't tell a cosmic or an x-ray to do that through a kind of peculiar and I describe it through kind of peculiar wormhole in biology we've suddenly landed on technologies that allow us to do exactly what I just said go into page 347. and erase a word um uh on page 347 and change it potentially change it to a different word um very early days in all of this but of course you can understand what the what the what the power of that of those Technologies can and will be so um there are some unexpected surprises in fact we're going to hear about it tomorrow from someone but some expect surprises but things are moving right along with these Technologies the final piece I'll I'll remind you of is that as I said this is a suite of Technologies um we're also synthesizing um scientists such synthesizing as we speak longer and longer and longer pieces of DNA and ultimately they'll be synthesizing chromosome sizes pieces of DNA so in other words we will be making synthetic human chromosomes um if we start doing that then you know we can write anything you can write your name into your you know in some codified form um into into your own genome and ensure that it would be carried forever into your children and your grandchildren your great-grandchildren so again not a you know not not to trivialize this idea synthetic DNA crispr all of this stuff we will see this happening in our lifetimes um so um learn the vocabulary learn the learn what it means um understand the biology because you if you don't participate in the conversation someone else will great I promises in a statement it's actually a question um but as we approach the beginning of human-driven evolution as opposed to sort of nature driven Evolution and darwinian sense um it seems we'll be driven by a very different set of rules and um desires I admire that you say that we can and should pursue consensus but everything about human history says we are going to pursue something similar to profit so I'd just like to hear your thoughts about how we can be very realistic about that future which includes a likelihood that we will be pursuing profit from everything we learn including crispr cast not in gene editing you talk about that in the book yeah so um so I mean the the longer discussion is in the book so I would encourage you to read it's a long list it's a pages and pages of uh of discussion in the book but the question is a very provocative one which is you know it's great to say in principle that you'll get consensus it will be driven by consensus but um ultimately personalize uh if we personalize Eugenics if you personalize these aspirations to have um children who are free from diseases but also um enhance their features um what would what would happen um so just to tell you where we are um four five six weeks ago um the National Academy of Sciences in the United States had a panel held a panel and decided that for the first time it would be okay permissible for um human beings to begin to make genetic interventions on human sperm and eggs um that's a big deal the criteria they use actually very similar to the creature in the book um they point out this idea of extraordinary suffering they pinpoint the idea of of um penetrance or or causality or Etc and um they don't go into the the arena of intervention sorry freedom but rather they talk about justifiable Alternatives there should be no other justifiable alternative uh to the therapy being pursued in other words you know if you can treat it medically in other ways do so but if you cannot if there's no other way to do it um we we it it said that it was permissible to consider um intervening on the human genome um in sperm and eggs in in the germline of the human genome um that is step one of trying to get a consensus in all of this um but you're absolutely right as we personalize this and as they're driven by profits a different question but as they're driven by personal motivations um it is important to remember that personalizing Eugenics is really no different in in its ultimate end as state mandated Eugenics it just changes the locus I believe of the behavior the locus of the behavior changes from the state that believes certain goods are certain kinds of peoples are better than certain others and essentially removes that Locus from the state and replaces it in the locus of the individual allowing you to decide who the who the right kind of person is going to be that you want to have as your child um but the end point of that of of while it shifts the locus of responsibility the end point comes to the same which is to allow people to have make decisions about who they want you know who who we want uh children to be just just I was asked a question I just want to point this out uh importantly I was asked a question before I just want to point out that it seems that we're in a kind of infancy of all of this in fact early attempts to predict human futures from from Gene sequencing have been very successful with single genes Sickle Cell cystic fibrosis breast bracha 1. but as we sequence more and most importantly as we store that data and we begin to use artificial intelligence and deep learning algorithms to inspect those genomes we will begin to unleash Technologies which we may not be able you know this is the this they're riding the tiger situation do you want to unleash Artificial Intelligence on the human genome um do we really want to know do we really want to get report cards for our children uh that say that they have a five percent propensity or ten percent propensity of developing something or the other and again I come back to the you know the heisenbergen principle you know which is that if you know does it mean that you will therefore change the your relationship to that child um so I don't mean to have a diff I don't have a simple answer to your question I'm not going to say you know let's have a national policy that does this and doesn't do that uh my my the point that I raise in the book is is that we that um I raise the considerations uh that are that are important in this Arena and I remind people that personalizing Eugenics it just shifts the locus but it doesn't shift the the it doesn't shift the responsibility hi so I'm Kea um so kind of the Pinnacle of americanism and how we uphold our democracy here is debating diametrically opposed views and that's kind of how we inform ourselves and determine our futures and right now we live in the midst of this debate of science-based policy versus politics-based facts or alternative facts if you may um if I may um and on that side of um politics-based facts there ought to be some rhetoric against this um genetic intervention in the government how do you predict that type of rhetoric will play a role in our progress in genetic intervention so let me understand the question are you saying are you saying that the ah that the rhetoric against genetic-based intervention and the the rhetoric for genetic based intervention should have a platform I don't understand what you're trying to oh sorry um I was just wondering because we live in the mid -science is contra that type of rhetoric will influence this movement so so part of the answer is again if you if if you want to correct the the the tide of the post-fact generation you have to learn the facts and we have to learn the facts if we don't learn the facts we will be only victims of the post-fact generation because we won't know what the facts are so um the part of the correction I think is to take a step away from the uh from the from from the heated and often um factually incorrect um uh swirl of news and ask the question what do we know what we what we do what don't we know and again I'll remind you I mean the the their chapters upon chapters on things like race things like you know what we know and don't know about about our identity what we know and don't know about how much things are determined and not determined in our genomes um so this is just to say that um I think the in the in the post uh fact Universe it only behooves us more to read more to read more science to learn more science um science is a is a conversation which ultimately the good thing about it is that it retains the capacity to disprove itself um to say it's to say it's it's okay we can be proved wrong we have criteria by which we judge whether we're wrong or right um that is a very beautiful thing um and should not be that idea that that you carry within your yourself within your discipline the capacity to say you're right I was absolutely wrong about this um is a very beautiful thing um and to uh degenerate that um by claiming rightness all the time by claiming the right to be right all the time does it does an enormous disservice to this thing that we've been building for six 700 800 years it's a terrible thing um so I feel badly and I feel sorry um for a culture where the capacity to be to be disproved has become a liability um it's a terrible thing anyway that's fine two bits about it hi my name is glennis kirkmeyer and in listening to some of the ethical questions they're bringing up it seems to me the many if not most of them are irrelevant if abortion isn't an option uh because who cares if you know that your kids have higher risks if you're forced to bring every single fertilized egg as far as it will go so first what is your reaction to that and second why do you avoid using the word abortion itself I don't avoid using the word I think the point about this is that in fact a genetic um I I think um I think the the Technologies um are actually obviating the need to abort fetuses um the genetic pre-implantation diagnosis you can call it what it is I mean I can tell you I can describe it mechanically it is the capacity to decipher genetic information from an embryo or potentially from an egg before it even is fertilized so um for the longest time the the only known method of genetic intervention was in fact abortion um and uh and in fact as you very well know syndromes like down syndrome and other genetic aberrations uh were in fact I discussed it at length in in the book what's happened with pre-implantation genetic diagnosis is that it's changed the it's it's changed the focus you can call it what you will but I'm just going I'm describing the process mechanically to you and that is the idea that you can sequence genetic information from a from an embryo and choose not to implant the embryo in the first place it is not clear to me personally whether it obviates or doesn't obvious the ethical questions around fetuses but what is clear to me at least is that the mechanics are very different from uh from abortion as we understood it in you know 10 15 20 years from now it seems to be that it seems to me that more and more of the technology will move towards pre-implantation diagnosis and genetic interventions as we move forward into the future that seems to be the natural history of this process I think we have time for one more question so over here uh with the rapid development of DNA sequencing and lower cost personal genomic sequencing where do you see do you see the prospects where at Birth each citizen would have to have a full genetic sequence supplied just as you see a little baby's footprint and fingerprints and blood type will this be something that is in our future where there'll be a consistent uh permanent record of who you are at least in that genomic book so um as I said the the first uh our first attempts to do this have been small scale and to me at least they haven't fulfilled their promise so the first attempts to do this to sequence genomes and to determine uh future risks from it have been have been small scale and they haven't fulfilled their promising part because we don't know enough about it um the uh even in diseases like cancer where the fundamentally genetic disease the early Trials of using genetic information from your cancer and using that information to direct therapy have been sobering to say the least um but that is only because I think and they're people who defer um that is for several reasons number one reason is that genes are not the only players in this and I talk about this extensively genes intersect with environments and chance and triggers to ultimately determine uh important features of of of human beings but number two and number three are important so that's number one those are fundamental constraints on the system but number two and number three is that so far we don't have enough information um imagine if we were to sequence a million genomes or 10 million genomes and begin to create a fate map of human beings asking the question what is the predictive value in the human genome how can you predict what your genome says about your future but not do this in five cases 10 cases 20 30 50 cases but as the cost of sequencing drops to a hundred dollars a person um ten dollars a person uh begin to do this for tens of millions of people and then the last piece of this is what if we start as I said before unleashing uh things that are not evident to the human eye but might be evident to a deep learning algorithms uh on this um what if I began to now unleash that power um onto those 10 million pieces of information start mining that data um and the question I keep asking is do you want to be do you want to be in that world do you want to live in that world in which you've unleashed the power of uh deep learning and and and and genetic sequencing on your children um what will we do as we as we as we move forward Gene sequencing costs drop and so you begin to have this situation where you create the vision of a human being before that human being has actualized that vision uh I don't need to tell you that that is a dangerous thing um as a physician I can also tell you that can be very powerful thing who wouldn't like to know who wouldn't like to predict a heightened risk of cancer breast cancer and thereby screen and detected as early as possible in a selected cohort of patients who wouldn't like to do that but on the other hand if we start thinking about this more generally more globally it seems to me that some of the questions there are are deeper and more and provoke more thinking than we even have we've we haven't digested that idea in its fullness so whether you are interested in understanding this important vocabulary that all of us need or whether you're interested in the themes of of an amazing chronology of and plot line around the science of the gene or whether you're interested in the ethical dilemmas and challenges uh the book is amazing I encourage you all to read it and I'd like to ask you to join me in thanking so thank you so much thanks thank you thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: o99HCzbzZHM (https://youtu.be/o99HCzbzZHM) ===

once a year I spend um one month in the wards um as part of the I mean you know I I see patients one day a week but I spend one full month in the clinical WS um away from the laboratory um first of all it humanizes me um and every year I ask myself when I go the first day of the Ws I ask myself why am I doing this um and I sit down with the with usually the interns and residents and the first time you see the interns or residents who passing through the Cancer Ward they are Shell Shocked um cancer still lives thankfully actually lives in the outpatient World these days it doesn't live in the wards anymore but it when it does live in the wards it is a particularly nasty variant usually these are people who are going through complications of chemotherapy these are people who have failed chemotherapies they're coming back for second rounds third rounds Etc it's a depressing place um and I I sit down at rounds the first day and I say to them in 1947 if you were in Boston um and you happened to be the internal resident taking care of a child with acute lymphoblastic leukemia you could be sure that 100% of your patients would die in the man in a matter of six 6 days 7 Days 10 days 2 weeks 4 weeks 100% of the patients if you then came came back to that same ward in 1957 you would find that the numbers had decreased to 50% if you came back to the same world in 1977 it would be down to 10% by 1990s it would be down to 10 or you know 10 15% uh downrange and here's what's here's what the kicker for me is that and I tell myself this actually I'm telling myself this you won't know if you if if the woman with malignant metastatic melanoma is going to be part of that 15% in 10 years from now or if if if she's not going to be and amazingly enough it's that uncertainty that will drive you it drives me you won't know you cannot tell but imagine that moment of time I mean it should send it should send a shiver up everyone if it doesn't send to shiver up your spine you're in the wrong profession that that that the that 100% of these children would be dead and in 10 years time because of Serial iterative advances 90% of of those children were being cured are being cured 80 90% of these children are being cured and imagine being able to do that for melanoma imagine being able to do that for acute myogenous leukemia imagine being able to do that with metastatic herto positive breast cancer triple negative breast cancer you know um that uncertainty will drive us in places that we've never been before and I think it's something very profound about medicine

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: oFUMhKWbyQY (https://youtu.be/oFUMhKWbyQY) ===

you know where of carthi therapy has been most successful most used uh and and what you see as being the possible changes uh in use of carti therapy is going forward well there's it's a huge uh field it's evolving every day um our scientists uh my laboratory uh you know uh we keep up we're we're keeping up with with the with the literature that keeps running faster than than even we can follow but globally they've been extraordinarily successful in leukemias and lymphomas they've been tried now for other cancers but uh myeloma also very successful but uh you know as you very well know the main centers for cartier therapy have been the united states europe and china um there is uh you know we immunize ambition of course is to bring the entire suite of cartees that are available and successful globally to india so that we can run these really innovative trials i mean we want to be as much of a thought leader in this space an intellectual leader in this space as uh any um a major party academic institution or private institution in any of these countries china india sorry china the europe and and and the united states and canada so um we are absolutely committed to doing that and the and the more the more we the you know we will run um a whole series of trials uh we will do them with the as i with the highest grade of intellectual rigor uh follow the highest grade of of uh sterility and and and and practices that are necessary to make this product uh the absolute international standards of safety and as we grow this ecosystem you know regulators will become comfortable uh we will become comfortable with uh you know how to manage our own uh house as it were uh so that uh we deliver the best product and become as i said we innovators in this space we've already started a very strong research and development program for me to make parties that have never previously been made it's advancing along very rapidly i'm very impressed with it so you'll see a lot of innovation coming out of out of immune i hope you know two questions on innovation and collaboration that you spoke of you know other companies in india pharma companies like dr reddy's are also looking at getting into this space dr reddy's is tied up with i think it's chenzin pregene biopharma as well to explore the possibility of carti therapies and bringing them to india could that potentially be an area of convergence for a startup like yours with with the legacy incumbents here in india well i think you know um for for me as a scientist and as a co-founder of muniel uh all collaborations are open and welcome um the uh you know the ecosystem is is established through collaboration um there is there is in you know the more brains we put into this and the more thought we put into this uh the the the more developed therapies we can we can bring so um you know there are there are several people who want to uh who want to deliver cartes i mean as i said we want to also create at the same time create a regulatory framework within india such that everyone follows the same protocols in terms of regulation so that we don't cut any corners we provide the highest grade as i said international grade products so you know you can't wake up one morning and make carties you know it took us from our last conversation in 2019 it took us three years to build this facility and you know we learned along the way every step was a learning process and in the end you know you ended up with something like this but she know i you know i don't know how to convey to your audience um the incredible level of attention to detail attention to complexity the release criteria you know the safety the design of the study you know every piece of it has to be thought out with immense amount of care immense amount of care because we are handling human lives and we you know we the sanctity of that life is the most important thing that we can we can think about um and so so as i said the the we welcome collaboration we welcome creating an ecosystem and the more minds we have the better it is as we move forward dr mukherjee you know i want to address the larger issue of of the burden of cancer in india and at the start of the program we talked about what the icmr is projecting by 2025 almost 30 million potential cancer cases in india what concerns you what worries you not just about the disease button but also you know whether it's lead detection uh or diagnosis the lack of infrastructure from an india point of view what worries you the most and what you believe is the need of the hour more importantly well i think you know in in cancer uh the greatest impact uh is almost always in prevention um we can certainly invent new treatments but the greatest impact is in prevention and so what worries me is that that you know as the cancer burden increases how will a nation of 1.3 billion people create very strong very high impact programs that address cancer prevention and there's some obvious things tobacco control which was going very well but i think is sliding around the world again obviously some cancers a small minority are caused by viruses uh such as human papilloma virus um so vaccination against human papillomavirus the third is you know as we the population is is is our entire population is is experiencing around the world experiencing longer and longer lifespans and cancer is a disease of age so what do we do as the population ages do we you know are we doing the appropriate detection are we doing the appropriate screening for for cancers that can be caught at an early stage such as breast cancer and finally you know there is uh the beginnings of uh you know there's a very clear connection with obesity and so are we are we giving the right message uh to people in terms of diet exercise um and appropriate uh you know uh appropriate tools to control uh the the one factor which is very clearly linked to an increased risk of cancer so uh in quick summary i mean by what worries me is that there is a there is a storm that's brewing a medical storm that's brewing uh we let's put aside the the great financial costs of treatment um and the great uh personal and financial psychological psychiatric and financial costs of the treatment i my worry is that the storm is brewing and we don't want to be reactive to that storm we want to be proactive to that storm immunity is just one part of it we are the end of that process in which people with you know leukemias lymphomas and myelomas in the advanced stages are being treated we are the end of of that sort of linear journey um what worries me is that the the real high impact is uh you know at the beginning of the journey which is prevention at the beginning yeah you're absolutely right dr mukuchi before i let you go uh you know the dosing has started as far as this phase to imagine trial is concerned just run me through what we can expect now in the next stage of this trial uh if there are timelines that you could leave us with yeah we're hoping we're enrolling away uh we've already uh dosed uh a few patients uh all i can tell you that patients have tolerated the doses uh they've been safe we have detected the t cells in their blood um and you know i think we'll start seeing uh i don't want to be premature i don't want to you know say anything about the outcomes because we are still in the middle of measuring them we want to be careful we want to be absolutely a you know play along with the global standards which we are and we hope to get some real information on you know how this trial is going moving along by i would say the um the winter of this year which is a record speed really for a trial um and that's because the uh the physicians are working literally i i'll tell you sharing they are working hand in hand every day with the with the scientists there is a meeting every day they meet every day they discuss every case every case is analyzed at a at the highest level um by the scientists by the clinicians and they this is this is the collab you know you require this you require a kind of closeness uh between the clinician um the patient of course and the scientists and and um i'm very proud to say that at least that part we have achieved more than just building a building we've built um you know we've built a collaboration we've built the beginnings of of an ecosystem well dr mukherjee we wish you the very best of luck thanks very much for joining us here on cnbc tv 18 and taking us through uh the work that immunity is doing uh uh and we hope to hear back from you as you get to the end point of the trial thanks very much for your time well thanks thanks very much as always we'll take a break and we'll be back with you right after this short break with a lot more

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ogssy_2_yzc (https://youtu.be/ogssy_2_yzc) ===

so i want to shift the conversation a little bit in the last few minutes we have the mrna vaccines have been a huge success in the fight against covid and more broadly just as a medical technology it's raised a lot of excitement about how this mrna technology could be used in other diseases one of the ones that's been mentioned is how this mrna technology could be used in cancer care so could you explain to us how that could hypothetically work and how optimistic you are about this making some advancements in cancer care well one of the major areas of cancer care is immunotherapy and we're still trying to understand how immunotherapy works what its ranges and possibilities are now immunotherapy of course involves inciting the immune system against anything in and in the case of cancer it would be inciting the immune system against cancer now um it's important to realize that uh the mrna vaccines allow us to find a completely new way of inciting or exciting the immune system against cancer so you can imagine taking a cancer um cell finding out what's unique about it uh what unique proteins it expresses and then just like you know you'd have a vaccine against covid which would incite your immune system against covid a virus you could imagine um such a similar thing with cancer you could imagine inciting an immune response against the cancer and thereby directing immunotherapy against cancer now this could be done at a cancer by cancer level which would be highly dependent on precision medicine in other words you'd have to take the individual cancer and find out what was unique about it and then use the mrna to incite an immune response against it or it could be done as a preventative so you know there are now several vaccines against potential virally induced cancers such as human papilloma virus or such as epstein we haven't got a vaccine yet there but for a cancer-related virus such as epstein-barr virus so it opens a new frontier of being able to deliver mrnas in into a cancer uh sorry into a human body such that you could elicit an immune response against cancer one of the things that our laboratory is working on is something different which is to say can you use the similar mrna technology to change the genetics of a human body such that you can now attack the cancer not in an immunological sense but to make a difference using the mrna to make a difference between the normal cell and the cancer cells so there are a really a variety of mechanisms mostly immunological but some non-immunological by which we can use these mrna technologies to advance cancer care

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: oluZBw6Lf9c (https://youtu.be/oluZBw6Lf9c) ===

foreign [Music] environment of prowling enemies and a harsh economic conditions the weak looks into how his coronation comes with the crown of thorns our cow story this week talks about how the next two months are big for Dr satarta Mukherjee Pulitzer winning author oncologist and entrepreneur has highly anticipated book the song of the cell an exploration of medicine and the new human will be out in India this week he will soon be in Bengaluru to assess the results of clinical trials by immune a company co-founded by him that is conducting cutting-edge Research into finding a cure for cancer mukhoji tells the week that his war on cancer has many fronts professional intellectual and emotional the package also has an exclusive interview with Siddhartha Mukherjee where he says we are creeping towards soft immortality do take a look at our special report on how guarding the line of actual control is taking a physical and mental toll on the indo-tibetan border police Personnel we also have an interview with president of all India Football Federation Kalyan chaupe where he talks about exploring the possibility of hosting a World Cup and finally in Indonesia we have actor director rishabh Shetty on why his kannada film kantara has taken the World by storm that was weak in 60 Seconds [Music] [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: qG_YmIPFO68 (https://youtu.be/qG_YmIPFO68) ===

I want to talk to you
about the future of medicine. But before I do that, I want to talk
a little bit about the past. Now, throughout much
of the recent history of medicine, we've thought about illness and treatment in terms of a profoundly simple model. In fact, the model is so simple that you could summarize it in six words: have disease, take pill, kill something. Now, the reason
for the dominance of this model is of course the antibiotic revolution. Many of you might not know this,
but we happen to be celebrating the hundredth year of the introduction
of antibiotics into the United States. But what you do know is that that introduction
was nothing short of transformative. Here you had a chemical,
either from the natural world or artificially synthesized
in the laboratory, and it would course through your body, it would find its target, lock into its target -- a microbe or some part of a microbe -- and then turn off a lock and a key with exquisite deftness,
exquisite specificity. And you would end up taking
a previously fatal, lethal disease -- a pneumonia, syphilis, tuberculosis -- and transforming that
into a curable, or treatable illness. You have a pneumonia, you take penicillin, you kill the microbe and you cure the disease. So seductive was this idea, so potent the metaphor of lock and key and killing something, that it really swept through biology. It was a transformation like no other. And we've really spent the last 100 years trying to replicate that model
over and over again in noninfectious diseases, in chronic diseases like diabetes
and hypertension and heart disease. And it's worked,
but it's only worked partly. Let me show you. You know, if you take the entire universe of all chemical reactions
in the human body, every chemical reaction
that your body is capable of, most people think that that number
is on the order of a million. Let's call it a million. And now you ask the question, what number or fraction of reactions can actually be targeted by the entire pharmacopoeia,
all of medicinal chemistry? That number is 250. The rest is chemical darkness. In other words, 0.025 percent
of all chemical reactions in your body are actually targetable
by this lock and key mechanism. You know, if you think
about human physiology as a vast global telephone network with interacting nodes
and interacting pieces, then all of our medicinal chemistry is operating on one tiny corner at the edge, the outer edge,
of that network. It's like all of our
pharmaceutical chemistry is a pole operator in Wichita, Kansas who is tinkering with about
10 or 15 telephone lines. So what do we do about this idea? What if we reorganized this approach? In fact, it turns out
that the natural world gives us a sense of how one
might think about illness in a radically different way, rather than disease, medicine, target. In fact, the natural world
is organized hierarchically upwards, not downwards, but upwards, and we begin with a self-regulating,
semi-autonomous unit called a cell. These self-regulating,
semi-autonomous units give rise to self-regulating,
semi-autonomous units called organs, and these organs coalesce
to form things called humans, and these organisms
ultimately live in environments, which are partly self-regulating
and partly semi-autonomous. What's nice about this scheme,
this hierarchical scheme building upwards rather than downwards, is that it allows us
to think about illness as well in a somewhat different way. Take a disease like cancer. Since the 1950s, we've tried rather desperately to apply
this lock and key model to cancer. We've tried to kill cells using a variety of chemotherapies 
or targeted therapies, and as most of us know, that's worked. It's worked for diseases like leukemia. It's worked for some forms
of breast cancer, but eventually you run
to the ceiling of that approach. And it's only in the last 10 years or so that we've begun to think
about using the immune system, remembering that in fact the cancer cell
doesn't grow in a vacuum. It actually grows in a human organism. And could you use the organismal capacity, the fact that human beings
have an immune system, to attack cancer? In fact, it's led to the some of the most
spectacular new medicines in cancer. And finally there's the level
of the environment, isn't there? You know, we don't think of cancer
as altering the environment. But let me give you an example
of a profoundly carcinogenic environment. It's called a prison. You take loneliness, you take depression,
you take confinement, and you add to that, rolled up in a little
white sheet of paper, one of the most potent neurostimulants
that we know, called nicotine, and you add to that one of the most potent
addictive substances that you know, and you have
a pro-carcinogenic environment. But you can have anti-carcinogenic
environments too. There are attempts to create milieus, change the hormonal milieu
for breast cancer, for instance. We're trying to change the metabolic
milieu for other forms of cancer. Or take another disease, like depression. Again, working upwards, since the 1960s and 1970s,
we've tried, again, desperately to turn off molecules
that operate between nerve cells -- serotonin, dopamine -- and tried to cure depression that way, and that's worked,
but then that reached the limit. And we now know that what you
really probably need to do is to change the physiology
of the organ, the brain, rewire it, remodel it, and that, of course,
we know study upon study has shown that talk therapy does exactly that, and study upon study
has shown that talk therapy combined with medicines, pills, really is much more effective
than either one alone. Can we imagine a more immersive
environment that will change depression? Can you lock out the signals
that elicit depression? Again, moving upwards along this
hierarchical chain of organization. What's really at stake perhaps here is not the medicine itself but a metaphor. Rather than killing something, in the case of the great
chronic degenerative diseases -- kidney failure, diabetes,
hypertension, osteoarthritis -- maybe what we really need to do is change
the metaphor to growing something. And that's the key, perhaps, to reframing our thinking about medicine. Now, this idea of changing, of creating a perceptual
shift, as it were, came home to me to roost in a very
personal manner about 10 years ago. About 10 years ago --
I've been a runner most of my life -- I went for a run, a Saturday morning run, I came back and woke up
and I basically couldn't move. My right knee was swollen up, and you could hear that ominous crunch
of bone against bone. And one of the perks of being a physician
is that you get to order your own MRIs. And I had an MRI the next week,
and it looked like that. Essentially, the meniscus of cartilage
that is between bone had been completely torn
and the bone itself had been shattered. Now, if you're looking at me
and feeling sorry, let me tell you a few facts. If I was to take an MRI
of every person in this audience, 60 percent of you would show signs of bone degeneration
and cartilage degeneration like this. 85 percent of all women by the age of 70 would show moderate to severe
cartilage degeneration. 50 to 60 percent
of the men in this audience would also have such signs. So this is a very common disease. Well, the second perk of being a physician is that you can get
to experiment on your own ailments. So about 10 years ago we began, we brought this process
into the laboratory, and we began to do simple experiments, mechanically trying
to fix this degeneration. We tried to inject chemicals
into the knee spaces of animals to try to reverse cartilage degeneration, and to put a short summary
on a very long and painful process, essentially it came to naught. Nothing happened. And then about seven years ago,
we had a research student from Australia. The nice thing about Australians is that they're habitually used to
looking at the world upside down. (Laughter) And so Dan suggested to me, "You know,
maybe it isn't a mechanical problem. Maybe it isn't a chemical problem.
Maybe it's a stem cell problem." In other words, he had two hypotheses. Number one, there is such a thing
as a skeletal stem cell -- a skeletal stem cell that builds up
the entire vertebrate skeleton, bone, cartilage and the fibrous
elements of skeleton, just like there's a stem cell in blood, just like there's a stem cell
in the nervous system. And two, that maybe that, the degeneration
or dysfunction of this stem cell is what's causing osteochondral arthritis,
a very common ailment. So really the question was,
were we looking for a pill when we should have really
been looking for a cell. So we switched our models, and now we began
to look for skeletal stem cells. And to cut again a long story short, about five years ago,
we found these cells. They live inside the skeleton. Here's a schematic and then
a real photograph of one of them. The white stuff is bone, and these red columns that you see
and the yellow cells are cells that have arisen
from one single skeletal stem cell -- columns of cartilage, columns of bone
coming out of a single cell. These cells are fascinating.
They have four properties. Number one is that they live
where they're expected to live. They live just underneath
the surface of the bone, underneath cartilage. You know, in biology,
it's location, location, location. And they move into the appropriate areas
and form bone and cartilage. That's one. Here's an interesting property. You can take them out
of the vertebrate skeleton, you can culture them
in petri dishes in the laboratory, and they are dying to form cartilage. Remember how we couldn't
form cartilage for love or money? These cells are dying to form cartilage. They form their own furls
of cartilage around themselves. They're also, number three, the most efficient repairers
of fractures that we've ever encountered. This is a little bone,
a mouse bone that we fractured and then let it heal by itself. These stem cells have come in
and repaired, in yellow, the bone, in white, the cartilage,
almost completely. So much so that if you label them
with a fluorescent dye you can see them like some kind
of peculiar cellular glue coming into the area of a fracture, fixing it locally
and then stopping their work. Now, the fourth one is the most ominous, and that is that their numbers
decline precipitously, precipitously, tenfold,
fiftyfold, as you age. And so what had happened, really, is that we found ourselves
in a perceptual shift. We had gone hunting for pills but we ended up finding theories. And in some ways we had hooked ourselves
back onto this idea: cells, organisms, environments, because we were now thinking
about bone stem cells, we were thinking about arthritis
in terms of a cellular disease. And then the next question was,
are there organs? Can you build this
as an organ outside the body? Can you implant cartilage
into areas of trauma? And perhaps most interestingly, can you ascend right up
and create environments? You know, we know
that exercise remodels bone, but come on, none of us
is going to exercise. So could you imagine ways of passively
loading and unloading bone so that you can recreate
or regenerate degenerating cartilage? And perhaps more interesting,
and more importantly, the question is, can you apply this model
more globally outside medicine? What's at stake, as I said before,
is not killing something, but growing something. And it raises a series of, I think,
some of the most interesting questions about how we think
about medicine in the future. Could your medicine
be a cell and not a pill? How would we grow these cells? What we would we do to stop
the malignant growth of these cells? We heard about the problems
of unleashing growth. Could we implant
suicide genes into these cells to stop them from growing? Could your medicine be an organ
that's created outside the body and then implanted into the body? Could that stop some of the degeneration? What if the organ needed to have memory? In cases of diseases of the nervous system
some of those organs had memory. How could we implant
those memories back in? Could we store these organs? Would each organ have to be developed
for an individual human being and put back? And perhaps most puzzlingly, could your medicine be an environment? Could you patent an environment? You know, in every culture, shamans have been using
environments as medicines. Could we imagine that for our future? I've talked a lot about models.
I began this talk with models. So let me end with some thoughts
about model building. That's what we do as scientists. You know, when an architect
builds a model, he or she is trying to show you
a world in miniature. But when a scientist is building a model, he or she is trying to show you
the world in metaphor. He or she is trying to create
a new way of seeing. The former is a scale shift.
The latter is a perceptual shift. Now, antibiotics created
such a perceptual shift in our way of thinking about medicine
that it really colored, distorted, very successfully, the way we've thought
about medicine for the last hundred years. But we need new models
to think about medicine in the future. That's what's at stake. You know, there's
a popular trope out there that the reason we haven't had
the transformative impact on the treatment of illness is because we don't have
powerful-enough drugs, and that's partly true. But perhaps the real reason is that we don't have powerful-enough
ways of thinking about medicines. It's certainly true that it would be lovely to have new medicines. But perhaps what's really at stake
are three more intangible M's: mechanisms, models, metaphors. Thank you. (Applause) Chris Anderson:
I really like this metaphor. How does it link in? There's a lot of talk in technologyland about the personalization of medicine, that we have all this data
and that medical treatments of the future will be for you specifically,
your genome, your current context. Does that apply to this model
you've got here? Siddhartha Mukherjee:
It's a very interesting question. We've thought about
personalization of medicine very much in terms of genomics. That's because the gene
is such a dominant metaphor, again, to use that same word,
in medicine today, that we think the genome will drive
the personalization of medicine. But of course the genome
is just the bottom of a long chain of being, as it were. That chain of being, really the first
organized unit of that, is the cell. So, if we are really going to deliver
in medicine in this way, we have to think of personalizing
cellular therapies, and then personalizing
organ or organismal therapies, and ultimately personalizing
immersion therapies for the environment. So I think at every stage, you know -- there's that metaphor,
there's turtles all the way. Well, in this, there's
personalization all the way. CA: So when you say
medicine could be a cell and not a pill, you're talking about
potentially your own cells. SM: Absolutely.
CA: So converted to stem cells, perhaps tested against all kinds
of drugs or something, and prepared. SM: And there's no perhaps.
This is what we're doing. This is what's happening,
and in fact, we're slowly moving, not away from genomics,
but incorporating genomics into what we call multi-order,
semi-autonomous, self-regulating systems, like cells, like organs,
like environments. CA: Thank you so much. SM: Pleasure. Thanks.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: rimFSM9JeNM (https://youtu.be/rimFSM9JeNM) ===

hello everybody good morning um good morning um morning good morning it is a thrill it's an honor for me to be here with Dr Siddhartha Mukherjee who has not only an incredible career as a physician as a scientist but of course as we know also as a writer as an author someone who communicates about science and medicine uh every bit as brilliantly as he practices science and medicine and has become truly the historian for so many of us when we try to understand the things that affect all of our lives from cancer to so much else so I just told Sid Dr Mukherjee I have a million questions but we only have 45 minutes but I do want to start with a kind of basic you've you've written about so many things you have this you know award-winning book you wrote about cancer the Emperor of all maladies you wrote brilliantly again about the gene uh the human the thing that ties us all together now you decided then you decided to write about the cell it's not something we think about every hour of the day but as you write it affects everything around us everything in our lives why did you want to do this so um this project goes back a long way and it's a it's a little bit like Star Wars because there are prequels to sequels to prequels to sequels um obviously when I there there are two ways to read this book um or read my books one way is to start with the gene as the fundamental unit of information then Ascend to the cell and then finally Ascend to the dysfunctional cells which would be cancer that's one way to read the book it's not chronological it's just the way that the books came out and in the end when they become a quartet and we'll talk about the last possible of book in the quartet it'll become what I call the life quartet an exploration of who we are as humans how we become humans what we know about ourselves as humans at the genetic at the cellular and at the pathological level um that's that's the broad strokes but let me tell you the particular Genesis of this book which is important and there are two strands that connect this book the first strand is that for the longest time in medicine and in science in science I would say General Sciences there was this perception that biology of all the Sciences because it's youngest um is a kind of Lawless science there are no there are few common principles I mean you look at the diversity of life around Europe that palm tree and this gentleman who's sitting in front of us I think look nothing like each other is that a fair Fair assessment um exactly so but they're all two forms of life so the question is are there what are and are there deeper strands that that are not perceptible is probably a lizard outside there's a bird flying up in the sky what connects us what what is the thread that connects this vast but extraordinarily diverse looking um thing that we call life An Occurrence out there are these things that connect us and they're incredible so the first thing that connects us is evolution the theory now you could even potentially call it the law starting with Darwin evolving into much much more complex ideas but evolution runs through the space the um you know um I being a being a literary person I I I I I'm this this is just coming to mind uh that incredible line from Dylan Thomas's poem the force that through the green leaves drives the flower drives my life I'm misquoting it but it's just this incredible idea that there is a force one force is evolution it connects us all there are thousand books in evolution you can read them um Dawkins has written about it there are I can quote a thousand the second is the universality or the universal law of genetics genes as units of information the Thousand books on genes I've written one of them but um but you can find lots and lots of books about genetics and how we're connected how that palm tree shares basically the same kind of idea of genetic information than our friend over here right and then there's a third law and that is cell theory that all of us Birds beasts lizards animals are made out of cells and what's amazing about it is when I start writing a book I start thinking to myself what's not been written before and I thought to myself well here is the universal principle just as universal as Evolution just as universal as genetics and you can't find a book on what cells are you can find some but it's the you know you can't find the book A book about something that is as fundamental it's like saying you can't find a book that explains Einstein's theory of special relativity or general relativity you can't find a book about Newton it would be it would be akin to saying that for for biology and I thought to myself that's one reason so that's one strand and then even more surprisingly we are in the middle of a cellular Revolution and by that I mean we're changing cells we're doing things with cells we'll talk about some of this we're putting bone marrow into into humans in India I I just came back from India we've treated 15 patients a company that I started with T cells and eradicated their cancers there's a 10 year old boy um whose picture I have in my you know probably the proudest moment of my life I there's a 10 year old boy and I'll tell you the story in a second there's a 10 year old boy who came in with relapsed refractory leukemia he would have been dead that is a death sentence he is now three years of his treatment playing cricket and he came and asked me can I also play football and I said you can play anything because you are cured you are c-u-r-e-d cured yeah because of cellular therapy so I I and and around the world if I told people that they would say what what are you doing what's happening and so these two ideas the historical importance yeah and I would say the heuristic importance and then the current importance the the the the the the the the the Vitality the vivacity with which we are taking and manipulating cells making new things making new medical products was completely not there just in the same way when I wrote the Emperor of all melodies people didn't know about cancer in that in in the way that book was written so that's the Genesis of this book that and I want to talk to you about I want you to talk about um um why this is happening now I mean what led to it and you have some really phenomenal stories in this book of what scientists over the century what five centuries five or six centuries have done at moments in time that led to where we are but I'm I have to ask you about the title the song of the cell I mean you're clearly somebody who's who's um as you said yourself literary you read a lot you weave that into almost every page of the book um as you write about you know something that's complicated science but why songs so two reasons um but let me talk a little bit about processing lots of writers here um and I don't know how people title their books but I can tell you how I titled my books um I have a I have a prospective title when I start a book um and inevitably it's not going to be the final title I just put it in there because otherwise I can't move along um my writing process is very unusual I start from the first word and ended the last word if someone sends tells me move things around and you know put something in the middle and just move on that doesn't work for me I get if I get stuck I get stuck until I get until I can solve the problem where I'm stuck I can't finish a book and that's why I need help from editors editors can help you get unstuck but they can't tell you someone can't tell you like you like you can do these days you know let I know you're going to write about this leave this chunk alone and move on and the reason is that books especially in non-fiction but also in fiction books are stitched together like clothes when you make a jacket you can't say I'll come back to the right sleeve later right you have to put the whole thing together and the seams and this is very important the seams of a book are where a book really sits and the more invisible they become the better the book is the better the writing is and so when you move from one topic to another topic you may be moving moving centuries you may be moving from a patient's story to uh to someone discovering something under the microscope there's a seam between those two places if a reader detects that seam the book is gone because the artifice of writing is to make that scene vanish and so I'm saying all of this because I usually put a tentative title in and then I come back to the title the title came very late in the book and it refers to two ideas number one is that every cell sings out its own song and by that I mean that every cell in your body aside from a couple sperm and egg every cell in your body has the same genetic information your brain cell and your liver cell and the T cell in your body the B cell everyone has the same genetic information and yet they are completely different in their Form and Function they're doing completely different things and it's very much it reminded me both of Indian music and of any music in which you hand someone a score a song but if you hand Judy a song she'll sing it differently than if you hand me a song and in the same way a B cell and a T cell and a brain cell both have the same score but they're playing it out differently they're playing out different songs and in doing so becoming different things and allowing themselves to become different things that's one song that is what I call the known song of the cell we now know very much about why and how these two cells which are very different from each other can sing out different songs what we don't know is the second song which is that this that cells are also talking to each other and there is a little I would really encourage people to read the last two to three chapters of the book where I handled the question of complexity how do we build complexity out of these individual songs how is it that when there's a pandemic and a virus infects your body the entire body has to coordinate a response it's not one cell but your entire cellular Cosmos has to intersect and and create a response those are the songs that move between cells and we are yet to understand all of them so there's two meanings in the book of the word song and it and it does carry throughout the story you weave in um as as we mentioned a minute ago these really I mean you feel you're in the room with some of these scientists going back centuries um what were the most what were one or two of the most important sort of signposts or developments along the way that led us to where we are today when as you say we are making these explosive uh new uh the ability to do explosive new things with cells well I think the the I mean the the the the history begins with microscopy um and often this is the story of all of all science there's an instrument or a tool that comes about which seems to be unrelated microscopy is basically putting two lenses together um but the way you put them together and the way you manage to put them together and look down into the universe so you know the The Story begins with these two extremely eccentric very different character Lewin Hulk um in in delft right um looking down a microscope a single a lens microscope which you have to hold up to the sunlight and finding that in fact on sitting inside water where it were thousands of what he called animal cues single-celled organisms and then on the other hand Robert Hook who was everything he was a scientist he was a doctor he was an architect he was a you know a scientific illustrator he was an anatomist he also built a microscope looked down and found that in tissues plant tissues he could find these boxes he called them boxes and then finally decided that he would call them Chella after the word for a prison cell or a small box and that's the discovery of cells so that begins the history of Cell Biology that is the moment where all of a sudden we realize that we aren't built out of slabs of meat but in fact underneath if you look at the slabs of meat that we are seemingly built out of they're actually small units and we're built in a unitary way just like a Lego block and it's incredibly important I connect it to you describe as a grad student looking down I think you said you had ground up a mouse spleen I did and you were lost and what you saw you said was very exciting uh what happened how so so you know it's um so you have an organism right Mouse uh you have a plant you're a human and again you think of these as they appear to be slabs of meat um but then you take a spleen you grind it up and you put it into cell culture and you separate out all the cellular components of it you add some factors to make them live and then you wait for two days and all of a sudden the things that were in the spleen this individual cells you can see them and they come to life they're they're living uh and I don't know how to convey the excitement of this you've you're culturing life it's a living being it has autonomy it has agency it has a it has function it has a capacity to do something and it's doing something in your body what used to be on Friday a slab of meat has now on Monday become a unit and you know that that unit is what's making you live now unless you see it unless you do it or write about it hard to convey the excitement of it it's living it's a it's a living thing you've made in a in a dish a living thing with autonomous agency and function and now you can study what it does you can infect it with a virus you can make it do what cells do they move around they search for things they do things that make us live and it's incredibly exciting and if you can't get excited about that I just don't know what you can get excited about you've got to read this book I mean that I mean that page Pages still jumps out at me and you do bring it to life um said Mukherjee so fast forward to a lot of time to where we are right now or in the last few years where we have figured out ways to take these cells and do really amazing things I don't even have the language to describe what I mean the kind of thing you mentioned a moment ago with the boy and you dedicate the book to a young who was then a young girl and today she's a grown woman yeah she was seven when she received therapy with T cells she is now 18 and applying to college um she would have been she had also relapsed refractory leukemia and and it it you there was no there's no other treatment so she got T-cell therapies and um and is now as I said applying to college it's Emily Emily Whitehead yes and and she is lovely photograph of her in the book yeah it's almost I mean it's almost miraculous the way you describe what happened where everything was downhill and then the T cells um but what what what changed what was the can I tell you a story which is the craziest of all stories and I'm sorry to to to to derail this but sometimes things are so strange that they become stories and they become stories in books okay here's the story so I'm just coming back from India we started a against Great odds and we just published a a big paper on this and it's been in the news a lot we started and Emily Whitehead Factory in India so India has now become the world's fifth largest economy and a couple of us said to ourselves why isn't this therapy available in India we should make it available in India so we about two years ago started to make this so the condition was that I would would treat the first patient and the idea of course is to reduce the cost tenfold if we can so the the cost is forbidding in the United States um we can talk about numbers it's it's on the order of eight hundred thousand dollars for this treatment and we can talk about why we can talk about how etc etc anyway we wanted to cut it down tenfold at least maybe even 20-fold um and we've gotten almost there we're seven Eightfold now every day is it's a journey every day we cut a little bit more take off another slice from from the pie anyway patient one Emily Whitehead of India um I go downstairs and I'm opening the bag this bag as I said is a bag about this big and in the United States that bag it costs more than its weight in gold so I opened the bag I'm talking to this child and I say well where are you from he's been eight years old um and it turns out he is from Calcutta which is a city that I visit my parents are from there and I said what does your father do and it turns out so there is one hotel in Calcutta that I always stay in which has one floor which is sort of the floor that I stay stay in and there's one guard on that floor he's the concierge of the floor and this kid basically tells me through his parents he says my father is the guard is the concierge of that floor and I'm a little bit shocked by all of this and so this time when I went back my flight landed in India at 2 A.M in the morning I went to the hotel I was totally bleary-eyed I went to my floor and outside my roommates it's hard for me to say this without starting to cry but outside my room was sitting the guard the concierge he had stayed up the entire night and he was waiting he said I saw your name on the roster because he they collected roster and he said you know my child is alive um would you come to my house tomorrow um and I said listen I can't come to your house tomorrow I have a I'm doing things but why don't you bring your child for breakfast and so I have in my pocket I'm happy to show you around but I'm having this pocket me and this child walking up to me from you know outside the hotel door now this is a country of 1.3 billion people of whom 0.1 get leukemia of whom 0.01 have fathers who happen to be the concierge of a hotel that I stay in of whom 0.1 percent have relapsed leukemia of whom 0.001 have been treated on trial of whom 0.01 are cured of Leukemia and listen I don't believe in larger forces but sometimes sometimes man you I just I just don't know what to say anyway um and by the way that comes there are that's not the only in fact that's not in the book this most it's not in the book it happened it happened last month but your encounters with other patients are woven through this book absolutely and um and I have to say you when you read it you go back and read it again and again yeah because these are just incredibly moving right I'm just looking for the picture it's it's anonymized so so anyway uh Judy you can see that the audience won't see it this is the kid oh my gosh you all have to come up and look at this you're going to have you're going to have a mob up here oh my gosh he looks wonderful he looks wonderful can I hold it up yeah hold it up if he's anonymized so yeah there's a shadow over his eyes I don't know if you can see and Alive two years after from a disease that was is absolutely deadly was a death sentence five years ago um anyway uh I thought I'd share that no one's ever heard it I I just came back so but the book the book has a number of of stories like that yeah stories like that with patients but talk again what was it that was the key or keys that made it possible to do this kind of miraculous stuff today using the cells whether T cells or other pieces of cells to do this you know there's there's a kind of shoulder of giants phenomenon here which is incredible because um you don't you don't wake up one morning and figure out that there's a T cell in the body that fights infections you do it's very step by step so there is a lineage in which you understand how the body is made and then you ask the question a very simple question which was asked in the 1950s and 60s the question was why how do we defend ourselves against Invaders we're constantly under attack from various viruses Invaders etc etc we've run through a global pandemic what cures what heals us what is the mechanism what is the immune mechanism that that heals us ultimately when you get the influence when you get influenza why does what influences the virus its job is to replicate inside cells and make more copies of itself so why don't we completely succumb once we are infected by influenza and become an influenza Factory for the rest of walking influenza zombies why not right and I love questions like that because they get to the bottom of things because you ask the counterfactual the counterfacture in the 1950s was why isn't everyone in this room an influenza or bacterial zombie walking around making more copies of that bacterium or influenza that's infected you why aren't we all coveted zombies how do we recover and that question asked in the 1950s led to the discoveries of there must be something there must be in the body a system that allows us to fight Invaders what is that system it's a cellular system what cells are in it B cells T cells other cells a whole bunch of them how do they coordinate with each other how what signals do they send each other what happens when you get an infection and slowly bit by bit like solving a jigsaw puzzle you suddenly realize that there are these cells T cells and then um you begin to realize that these cells in fact can be manipulated not just to fight infections but you can engineer them so they intersect with genetic engineering you you can engineer them potentially to fight cancer and that's the basis of this new kinds of cellular therapy but that's not just one that's just one example you know we are building skin we are built from cells we are I'll give you other examples things you don't really think about blood transfusion one of the most common things that people do you would you know save childbirth would be impossible without blood transfusion that because once in a while you know you have a gush of blood and you can't stop it and it's it's lethal women would die of bleeding from from childbirth blood transfusion can only happen because we identified what cells were important red blood cells and identified compatibility which ones were compatible with each other because if I give you the wrong blood it won't you know you'll have a reaction it won't stay so IVF yeah is cell therapy so things that we really think have become you know we sort of absorbed them and said you know blah blah blah but that in fact the consequence of under slowly understanding that we are built out of cells that we can manipulate cells we can transplant cells we can move them around we can change them and so all of these new therapies some of which we take for granted are really the consequence of understanding the basic biology of of cells so it's cancer it's also I mean you write about diabetes the pancreas sickle cell anemia the just extraordinary work that's being done there there's so many possibilities what are you I mean at this point what are you the most optimistic about um in terms of advances in the near term and I by the near term years um I think the intersection of Cell Biology and genetics and in fact if you took my last two books and you smashed them together the intersection of Cell Biology and genetics is creating a an incredible Revolution in medicine which we have to be good stewards of um so again in the last chapters of the book I talk about on one hand very optimistically about our capacity to manipulate cells incredible but also it comes with lots of problems the some of the problems are philosophical do we once we once we start doing this manipulating cells increasing changing cells we really are changing humans and that's why the subtitle of the book contains the word new human it's a it's a provocative word because the question is who do we become and then there are some questions that are philosophical that have to do with equality and Equity I mean if they're going to be you know if they're going to cost eight hundred thousand dollars um most of us won't have access to them and so who has access to them um and so there's a series of questions at the end of the book which have to do with in on one hand have to do with autonomy and identity and the other hand have to do with you know the economics and the accessibility of these therapies so on one hand I'm incredibly optimistic about the the coalescence of of genetics gene therapy and and cellular biology but on the other hand I have pretty serious worries about what might happen once this is let loose and and how do I mean you you've been all over the world you've obviously spent a lot of time in India you're working there working here in other places how do you how do you see that I mean to me that's just one of the big big questions coming out of the book is how to whatever advances are made how are decisions made how are who makes decisions about who gets the benefit of these treatments and who doesn't well right now I mean those decisions are so constrained uh by um economics about resources and and things like the extraordinarily constrained um the real question is how to make them less constrained um sometimes that help people you know we're not making gold here we're making cells there there's a we are making we're genetically manipulating cells there are some costs labor costs associated with it quality costs associated with it but we're not spinning gold um so at some point of time this journey will end I think with vastly more accessible variants of these therapies um and I mean to use a very simple example you know a hundred years ago did you did you think everyone would have cell phones no it's technologies have scaled they scaled downwards hopefully and we I mean obviously need to create an ecosystem uh of resources in which these resources are available to people that's the resource problem that doesn't solve the philosophical problem of who we become once we start doing cellular manipulations on ourselves that's a question about stewardship that's a question about who we are as humans how we Define ourselves as human what the new human is I want you to you and we spoke beforehand about um I wanted you to read a little bit of the book where you refer to Paul greengard who was someone who was a mentor yeah and a close friend to you and and a close friend um he was in his 90s yes when you reached out to him but I don't know if this is the exact page Sid but yeah I find it yeah there's a part of it but it's it's integral to telling the story in the book yeah um so um the way just a little bit of background to this the way that um I I write books is uh um I think of myself as a kind of recipient or a filter um in in which my filter I mean not a filter that removes things but when you put a dab of ink on a filter it just spreads um and so if things happen to me as a physician as a scientist kovid and my my confinement and my my time during that that period um my father's death my own my depression my mental anguish I feel as if if I don't tell you about that I would be a lesser writer um and I would be sort of this kind of physician who doesn't seem to experience anything in their own lives so this piece is it was published in the guardian this piece is a very personal piece but I decided to put I I wrote it because it just felt natural because if you're going to write a book about medicine and if you experience something that is medical it should be in the book um so I mean I'm going to read it and you'll figure out why um in the spring of 2017 I was overwhelmed by the most profound wave of depression I've ever experienced I use the word wave deliberately when it finally burst on me having crept up slowly for months I felt as if I was drowning in a tide of sadness that I could not swim past her through superficially my life seemed perfectly in control but inside I felt drenched in grief there were days when getting out of the bed or retrieving a newspaper outside the door seemed unfathomably difficult why I could not tell part of it perhaps was coming to terms with my father's death a year before in the wake of his passing and thrown myself manically back to work neglecting to give myself time to time and space to grieve some of it was confronting the inevitability of Aging I was at the edge of the last year of my 40s staring into what seemed like an abyss my knees hurt and creaked when I ran an abdominal hernia appeared out of nowhere the poems that I could recite from memory I would now have to search my brains for words that had gone missing I heard a fly buzz when I died the Stillness in my room was like um like like what I was becoming fragmented I was officially entering middle aged and it wasn't my skin that was beginning to Sag with my brain I heard a fly Buzz I called Paul greengard a professor at Rockefeller University I'd met green guard at a retreat in Maine several years ago and we had recognized each other as fellow scientists and walked Walked for a mile on a white pebbled Windswept Beach talking about cells and biochemistry and had become close friends in the night I'm skipping your head a little bit in the 1960s and 1970s green guarded experiments had led him to think of a novel way about cellular communication neurobiologists who's studying studying the synapse had largely described the communication between cells neuronal cells as a rapid process but green guard had argued that there was a different kind of process by which cells talk to each other the chemical signal sent out by one neuron to another create a Cascade of what he called slow signals in the brain neuronal signaling from one cell to the next he argued instigates profound biochemical and metabolic changes in the recipient cell in an elaborate Cascade of chemical signals is passed off which cause alterations in metabolism and gene expression in the nature and concentration of chemical transmitters and ultimately in the way the cells communicate with each other for decades the slow Cascade was considered peripheral but the biochemical alterations produced by neuronal cells the green guard Cascade is now known to permeate the brain change the function of neurons and dictate many of its subsequent properties and for this green guard would win the Nobel Prize the important thing about that is that green guard thinks and now we think more and more that this slow transmission is the cause of many many Neuropsychiatric illnesses perhaps most interestingly of depression and that's probably why this is green guard's hypothesis that just increasing serotonin in the brain using the standard antidepressants ssris doesn't work it's because it's this slow process that takes months in which the way the neurons communicate with each other that has to be modified and it can be only modified maybe through serotonin but probably through chemicals that we don't even know yet and once we know those chemicals we can alter the cells and their communication between them the slope communication between them change the synapses and create a new brain and this goes back to the new human create a new brain where the circuits responsible for depression are finally alleviated it's a completely new different different way of thinking about mental and mental pathologies including schizophrenia Alzheimer's disease and other diseases but it's a new way of thinking about things it's just one example of the many overuse the word dramatic but dramatic elements that you sprinkle through the book that are that make it yes it's a book about science you learn so much from it but we learn about you and who you are and your life and we learn about these um uh remarkable people who who are in your life I see we only have less than four minutes left but would anyone like to ask a question the gentleman who's not the palm tree yes on the first row Years thank you thank you thank you very much well I think I I would love to say that we've cured type 1 diabetes using cell therapy that we've implanted artificial pancreases into people I'd love to say that we have five or six new cellular therapies for cancer particularly liquid cancers that have been successful I'd love to say that we have advanced um IVF so that we are not implanting five or six embryos into humans but rather one and and being sure that that one embryo if people want if the some people might want to three but um but if people want one that that we've been successful in implanting the single one that we know is going to lead to a healthy viable child and finally of course going back to the questions we asked a little bit before I'd love to so I'd love to say we've cured sickle cell anemia I'd love to say we've cured beta thalassemia I but finally I'd love to say that we've made the resources available so that people who are really in need of these therapies can access these therapies without becoming you know without breaking their Banks and without breaking the National Bank of of monies that are available I know so many people in the room agree I lost my sister this last year to she had type 1 diabetes complications we've got about a minute so if it's a short question right here foreign Emily whiteheads so the question is did Emily white have had are there no side effects are there side effects when I mean this is how medicine evolves Emily almost died from the side effects um it's in the book um because when T cells kill cancer they go on a kind of Rampage um that Rampage is very toxic um in the last five years um we've learned to manage those side effects so much so that they've almost become nil um they've gone from being deadly to becoming nil partly because I mean again life is strange so Emily Whitehead's case is interesting I'll just tell you a quick story about her and then we have maybe one question but it turned out that Carl June who's a friend who was treating Emily Whitehead happened to have a daughter who happened to have juvenile arthritis who happened to be treated with a drug which was an immune suppressant drug for juvenile arthritis Emily Whitehead was about to die her cancer was killed but she was about to die from these rampaging T cells and Carl June in his great wisdom decided that why not try this immune suppressant drug to dampen down the T cells now that they've been awoken now that the monster is awake why don't we put the monster to sleep again and so overnight they rushed a requisition and treated this Emily Whitehead with the drug and completely changed so all of the T cells went back into their quiet mode and that's why she's living that trial was almost dead so now what we do is we give that drug um as as a prophylactic and we've also we also give the doses of the T cells in in fractions so we don't give them all that once once swell and the the I would say the side effect profile has gone down to basically nothing uh virtually everyone's fine we have maybe one last question Judy this gentleman yeah I worry I mean so the question is you know do I do I worry about the overly reductionistic uh approach to medicine and the uh this book I mean the last chapter is exactly about that um I think the word I mean I think I have to be careful about words here and definitions so it's easy to define the reductionist piece of it um it's very hard to just Define the holistic piece of it by holistic I mean taking into account the whole which involves taking into account the intracellular Communications in the environment diets nutrition uh you know how we how our brains intersect stress inflammation things like that which we know very little about um that is what I mean by taking the hole into account um other people might have different definitions my general plea has been if you're going to talk about medicine holistically um let's be clear about what the definitions are because I don't want slippery definitions um I want something that I understand I can test um that where I can provide proof to a patient that is a that is proof that is that allows the patient to to become well again because the problem is when you're a patient and I know this from my own experience everyone gives you advice there's no limitation you know you're on a bus and someone's giving you advice about what to do and all you can say is thank you um but but you know everyone's everyone's a doctor everyone's giving you advice and so my general plea is and most of this advice is about what what you would might call sort of holism and holistic medicine everyone's saying oh reduce the stress in your life and and you know a cancer patient is saying what do you mean reduce the stress in my life I have cancer uh you go reduce the stress in your life [Laughter] um and so so I think there is a there is a side of holistic medicine or holism which when we become slippery about it actually ends up blaming the victim and actually ends up harming people um and it's really important not to do that because you can tell everyone to you know you can tell cancer patients to to eat Goji berries and stand on their heads someone in the bus is going to tell you that and say that that's the way to cure cancer and what you've really done is taken that person whose life is already pretty full their bucket is full and you've added two more drops of water to that bucket and say now and Beyond going to your doctor and getting you know therapy and getting psychiatric counseling which I think are all of which are important you also have to eat Goji berries and stand on your head every day right and and I'm like the patient has cancer give her a break you know thanks for your holistic medicine but but if it's helpful let's make sure that it works make sure it's tenable make sure there's some proof behind it make sure there's scientific evidence behind it and sure if there is I'm all for it but don't fill This Woman's bucket it's full already great question doctor said Mukherjee thank you thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: s_c5KFKzxnQ (https://youtu.be/s_c5KFKzxnQ) ===

Hello and welcome. Good morning or almost afternoon. I'm Lloyd Miner, dean of the Stanford School of Medicine, and it's wonderful to see you all here today. Our aspirations start right here in our community. We're committed to being the very best neighbor we can be to the people in Northern California. You, our neighbors, to be the place where all of you turn when you need the services that we offer. That's medical care. And it's also information and resources, days like today for the benefit of you and your families. So let's turn our attention now to our next very exciting offering, the vision of our keynote speaker, Sedarthur Mukerji. You may know him as a Pulitzer Prize-winning author of the Emperor of All Malades, a biography of cancer. He called his own work a biography, but if you read it, you know that it reads like a page turning thriller about the history of cancer and its impacts on society. We like to claim Dr. Muker G as one of our own because he received his undergraduate degree here at Stamford and worked in the laboratory of Nobel laurate Paul Berg defining the genes that change the behavior of cancer cells. From Stanford it was on to Oxford with a road scholarship and then to Harvard Medical School. Today he's an assistant professor of medicine at Columbia University where he pursues medical research into the origins and interventions for blood cancers. He also continues to treat patients as a cancer physician. All of this while writing a Pulitzer Prizewinning book. Of his book, his publisher says that Dr. Mukerji examines cancer with a cellular biologist precision, a historian's perspective, and a biographer's passion. And next year, you'll be able to watch a Kin Burns documentary based upon the Emperor of All Malades scheduled to air on PBS. Today, he'll share with us his view of this disease and his vision for the future. After his remarks, my colleague Amir Dan Rubin, CEO and president of Stanford Hospital and Clinics will conduct a session in which you can ask questions. So, be thinking about what you want to ask. And now, it's my great privilege and honor to introduce Dr. Sedarthur Muk Mukerji who will deliver the talk. Thank you very [Applause] much. Thank you so much. Uh it's an incredible honor being here. Um I I like to say that I'm one of the children of this auditorium because this is a place named after Paul Paul Berg my my undergraduate mentor who I had dinner with yesterday. And um for me it's a it's a it's also a very important place historically geographically a very important place because I when I trained here uh I saw in a room not far from here the very first child that I would encounter who received chemotherapy and was uh cured of leukemia. Um and then a few months later in a room just uh a few doors away uh the very very first woman I saw die of breast cancer. Um and those two polls uh represented to me as an undergraduate uh the incredible work that had been achieved, the incredible achievements of medical sciences uh through the passion of very very dedicated physicians and researchers and also the long journey ahead that will change hopefully the landscape of cancer as we move forward. Um the the question that I want to answer uh and ask first the question that I want to ask is a question I think is on everyone's minds which is uh where are we uh how did we get here and what happens next. It's a question that we really need to ask as a community as a society to figure out what the next steps are in a disease that has simultaneously been thwarted by us in in several important instances. but also continues to escape from our grasp over and over again. Um, and it requires, I think, uh, as as everyone here knows, it requires a kind of continual evaluation. I think we shouldn't make a mistake. Cancer is by far one of the most significant human challenges in our history, bar none. Um and I think that it demands a kind of ingenuity which we have but it demands it constantly. It demands it in a way that we can't uh give up at one instance because it is as I describe in my book I call it a red queen's race. You know, there's a very famous scene which I enjoyed from reading uh uh Lewis Carol's books. Um and the Red Queen says uh in the middle Alice runs up to the Red Queen and says, "Why are you running?" And the Red Queen says, "Well, I'm running because the world is moving with equal and opposite ferocity in the other direction. I'm running just to keep in place." Um so cancer demands that kind of running. It demands that kind of running and ultimately it demands that kind of running so that we are not in place but in fact are moving forward. But even maintaining our knowledge around cancer, even maintaining what we know today requires a kind of a deep commitment, a deep effort and I and and one of the one of the sort of central uh messages of my talk is that we need to double that effort. Uh that effort needs to be doubled because it is with us. It is among uh it's amongst us and unless we generate a next series of uh innovative advances, we will be left behind. and the red queen will be falling behind in this race. Um so what I thought I would do today in service of those questions, where are we today? What has happened? What is the landscape look like? What is the global view? Um I thought I would take you a little bit through the through through the history or through the past because it informs us about how we got here and how what happens next. And I like to think about cam, you know, the landscape of cancer is is often it it's often feels like losing the forest for the trees. You know, you read a newspaper and someone says, you know, what a wonderful advance happened yesterday. Um, and so you pick up the next newspaper and say, clinical trial fails. The third article in the same newspaper says, important advanced against breast cancer. And you feel as if there are so many trees that you begin to lose the for what does the forest look like? What does the landscape look like? So I thought I would take a a a bird's eye view as it were and then zoom down on on individual uh changes uh in cancer treatment and prevention. And if you take that bird's eye view, I like to think about cancer in terms of four essentially four revolutions. Uh not a thousand, not 300, but four revolutions. And these four revolutions, we're in the middle of the fourth. uh these four revolutions I think have redefined the way we think about the treatment and prevention of cancer and when we think forward I think we need to go back to reimagine these four structural revolutions as it were in cancer so I'm going to start with my first slide that it's right here um long before that very first revolution arrived uh there was a a long history that predated it. Cancer is thought about as a modern disease, but in fact it is an ancient disease uh probably one of the most ancient diseases we know. This is a picture of u one of the first medical documents that we possess as humans, the Edwin Smith Papyrus, which describes a case of breast cancer. We don't know the words for it because that we we don't have actually the vocabulary, but we can tell from the case description that this was a case of breast cancer. And certainly if you look at ancient specimens of cancer, cancer is present. This is a a a bone tumor found in a mummy uh from from the ancient world in which we know there's a there's a physical presence of cancer in the ancient world. But there was no theory really that explained this for a long time. Cancer was thought to be a visitation of fate, a terrible uh visitation of destiny and left as such until for the first time the first theory of cancer began to arise and that was promulgated by several physicians. We don't even know if there was one such physician or whether there was a conglomeration of them. But Galen uh the great Roman physician put forward the first theory of cancer and that was that cancer was an excess of black bile. Galen argued that all diseases all human physiology could be explained by four major liquids that were fluids in the body. Black bile, yellow bile, blood and flem. I call it a hydraulic theory of pathology. One thing goes up, something else goes down. Um and ultimately he thought that all diseases would be explained by these four a kind of cardinal axis of of a fourdimensional axis. And in fact there's only one disease one other disease that Galen ascribed to an excess of black bile and that was depression. In fact the word melancholy literally translates to melancholate black bile and there's something very evocative about the idea that in the ancient world right in the ancient world the psychic and physical manifestations of a disease depression cancer were linked together. that it is not a coincidence that they still remain uh among the outer fronts of what can be treated by modern medicine. Um and very soon after this theory of black bile, there were attempts to surgically remove cancer but also remove the bile from the body as if to say that there's a systemic component to cancer and that that has to be bled out in this case. This is a an archival picture of a so-called sculptatus mastctomy in which uh the woman in this case was treated with for with uh with surgery followed by a by the bleeding of the removal and attempted removal of black bile. But of course unfortunately as you can see from this very uh very brutal procedure many of these women would still relapse with breast cancer and die of breast cancer. But what was really missing was what I call the first revolution of cancer. And that is a very simple idea which blazed through the world um somewhere in the 1860s and 1870s and was really consolidated by the early 1900s. And it's a simple idea but a profound idea and that is that cancer is a disease of cells. It is a disease of cells that don't know how to stop growing. In fact at this point of time in the 1860s there were very very few diseases of cells as it were. People thought people ascribed lots and lots of different reasons to have uh diseases. Uh heart attacks were explained in particular ways but cancer was now ascribed to disease of cells by a man. Uh this is a much older picture of him. He was no more no older than 34 when he made this then a radical uh uh argument that in fact regardless of whatever the cancers were breast cancer, melanoma, liver cancer, leukemia, most importantly cancer of the white blood cells were all tied together by one common pathophysiological mechanism and that was an excess of cell division. These cells did not know how to stop growing. His name was Rudolph Burkow. Um he worked in Germany. In fact, I I had the there is something very chilling about being able to look through as a as a cancer doctor to be able to look through Rudolph Workhouse's uh microscope, which you can do if you go to Berlin, you can. Um and in fact, Virkow made this very strong claim that cancer was a disease of cellular origin. Now, once again, very quickly, we moved from that understanding of cancer as a disease of cellular origin to the first attempt to now use that information and translate that information into cancer treatments. And the treatment uh which was available made available contemporaneously with uh with Verkow was surgery. So if it was a cell a group of cells a group of dividing cells then we could cut the cells out and thereby cure cancer. This is a a picture of Bill Roth operating um in in in Austria. And in Bill Roth's clinic came the person who uh as a student uh the person who would really redefine or and push the boundaries of this uh of the treatment of cancer based on the idea that cancer originated locally in an organ and could be therefore cured or removed uh by uh by aggressive surgery and that was William Stewart Halstead. Halstead was a young man when he went to Bill Roth's clinic and in Bill Roth's clinic he learned to perform incredibly intricate operations. He came back to New York and subsequently came back to uh went to Hopkins uh in Baltimore where he studied where he started studying breast cancer. Now in in Bill Roth's clinic, Halid discovered a new anesthetic uh called cocaine uh and he actually began he was a very bold experimentter. He began to use it on himself to provide anesthesia because he thought he would use it to in his surgery. And by the time he came back from Bill Ross Clinic, Halstead was a raging addict to cocaine. Um, and he was he came from a wealthy family and the drug of choice for cocaine addiction to treat cocaine addiction was another medicine then called morphine. Um, and so this is not uh so Halid was then treated with uh uh morphine to cure his cocaine addiction. But in fact now he became dyed to both cocaine and morphine and remained so for the rest of his life. In fact, his closest surgical trainees, including his residents, would never know this. He would scrub out mid-surgery apparently inject himself, come back into surgery, and finish his his operations. It was a testament to his self-discipline. Um, the the the disease that Halstead thought that he would attack uh with with with his full ferocity was breast cancer. Halstead thought that he would understand the the local treatment of breast cancer and push that with as much innovation as possible. And Halstead made a very bold conjecture, a very bold theory. He argued that if indeed cancer is a disease of cells and if indeed cancer originates uh in a single nidis in in the breast, then operating more operating more aggressively uh and removing not only the the tissue but all its surrounding tissue should cure cancer. Now, and he did in order to prove this theory, in order to push this theory forward, he began to launch first a a surgical operation called the mastctomy and then subsequently a surgical operation called the radical mastctomy in which the attempt was made to remove as much tissue as possible. And Halstead students began to push this idea even more uh strongly even deeply and he began to move towards an ultra radical or a super radical mastctomy all in the service of a theory that of course cutting more mean meant curing more. This is a picture from one of Halstead's original papers uh describing uh the pro the procedure u the the the script at the bottom is from Halstead. It says the patient was a young lady that I was very loathed to disfigure because these operations were disfiguring. They were very very difficult. They stretched into several hours not only removing the breast but the clavicle tissues under the um the muscles under the breast the pectoralis major the pectoralis minor and so forth and also deep into the into the aorta uh the nodes around the aorta to try to cure cancer. Now he was successful. Halstead was successful. In fact many many patients with advanced breast cancer would benefit from Halstead's uh very systematic dissection of the disease. The problem as Halstead uh began to realize but never fully uh conceived. The problem of course was that for a woman uh in whom the breast cancer had already metastasized a more radical surgery a more radical operation would not help. Uh it wouldn't because the as it were the cancer had already left its local confines. And ironically, for a woman who had tissue cancer was or was was restricted to begin with, more aggressive radical surgery wouldn't help either because you were doing too much for for a cancer that was locally restricted. So in fact, peculiarly it was perfectly mismatched to the two poles of cancer. either for women women who had local disease, doing more aggressive surgery was not helpful or doing more aggressive surgery and disfiguring a woman who already had metastatic disease was not helpful. And it was this realization which which took nearly 100 years long after Halstead was dead. This realization took a 100 years to really put into place. And it was it was only 100 years years later that a clinical trial could be launched uh that would that ultimately tested the radical mastctomy against a simple mastctomy with radiation or a lumpctomy with radiation and un and fortunately unfortunately there was no difference. Now you could ask yourself why did it take a hundred years and there are several reasons behind it. Well one reason is cancer theories of cancer are very powerful. We try, we want to believe theories and experiments done in order to service those theories have to be performed all the time. We cannot become trapped by our own theories of cancer. No matter how powerful they seem to be, they have to be put into experimental uh to they have to put to test experimentally. And in in the particular case of the radical mastctomy, that experiment became very difficult to perform for several reasons. First of all, the word radical mastctomy. I mean who would if if the word if the word was radical mastctomy who would subject themselves or their mother or their sister to the non-radical version of the surgery. Uh the word itself became a trap uh in which surgeons would say why would I offer the inferior version of therapy to a woman when I know that the word itself suggests that this is the right the the most aggressive therapy uh for that particular cancer. And women on just to carry on that same legacy women said why would I give myself the inferior treatment. In fact, this trial became impossible to run because no one wanted to enroll in the control arm of the trial. No one wanted to be so and you know people have described this when you speak to surgeons uh in the from the 1950s and 1960s they would say they describe this as water water everywhere but not a dropped drink patients patients everywhere but not one person to put on the control arm of the trial and it took a 100 years before. So this is I think in some ways the first counter lesson to the idea of the theory of cancer. Theories of cancer are very important. We need them, but we also need to be able to disband them. Every theory needs to have proposed an experiment that will either prove or disprove it. And those experiments are carried out by patients. They're carried out by patients in collaboration with their physicians. Um well continuing this continuing this idea of of theories of cancer uh the local theory of cancer then moved on to the to to the to the to the notion or to the idea that even if surgery was not sufficient perhaps a a a more invisible knife a different kind of strategy would now be successful. And in fact around the time that Halstead was beginning to launch his radical operation there arrived a piece of technology that would actually allow uh surgeons and their colleagues to intervene on cancer even without cutting into the tissue and that was radiation therapy. This is a picture of Marie Cury of course uh the woman who found radium. Um this is actually an interesting picture. This is the child being treated at the Stanford clinic. One of the first children. This is one of the first patient zeros being treated at the Stanford clinic for eye tumor a retinol blastoma. We know a little bit about this child actually. He left a series. He was alive for about 70 years after the this treatment. Um and he was cured uh by through radiation treatment. Um and then a kind of darker note to all of this is which is that while on one hand these treatments were successful like surgery in removing local cancers, they also began to reach a kind of fundamental limit. And that limit was that if if you use these indiscriminately, they would actually not only cure cancer, of course, but they could also cause cancer. And that was a big mystery. It was a big We'll come back to that mystery because it did not fully explain how cancer could be a disease of cells, but why radiation put on those cells could cause cancer. Hold that thought because we'll come back to it because it's these disruptive thoughts, these things that don't fit that ultimately generate new theories. So, we'll come back to that that idea in a second. But in fact, this is a picture of u of an advertisement that I found um in in the in in in in a magazine from the 1920s of a paint called undark. Undark was radium infused paint. And someone thought it was a very good idea that you could paint your clocks with it so that when you looked at your watch, you could wake up in the middle of the night and you could you could look at your watch. And in fact, young women were uh employed to put uh radium paint onto clocks. And many of them were encouraged because they wanted to keep the writing sharp, they were encouraged to lick the brush as they went along. Um, and in fact, uh, nearly all of them were virtually glowing with radioactivity. The radium has an incredible ability to go into the bones. They became sused with radioactivity and almost all of them would die of comp complications of that radioactive induction. They would die of cancers. So it was actually it was in some ways a real world def de demonstration of that dichotomy that on one hand of course radiation could kill cancer cells but for some reason that really didn't make sense a mystery that it would actually also cause cancer cells. So there was something missing in the cellular theory of cancer which needed to be uh needed to be revisited as it were and we'll come back to that to that thought. Um and in the middle of all of this uh while surgery and radiation were were trying to cure cancer locally the thinking grew uh and urgency grew that perhaps they need we needed something more than just surgery and radiation. We needed a third modality and that was chemicals. U chemotherapy of course literally means chemical therapy. The word chemotherapy was first applied not to chemotherapy as we understand it but to to to antibiotics because they were chemical therapies in that case for bacterial uh bacterial diseases. Paul Erlick was the first person to um invent some of the first antibiotics and Paul Eric spent the the last part of his life looking for not just antibiotics not just things that would kill microbial organisms but actually kill cancer cells and discriminate killing cancer cells from normal cells. So, Errolik argued that surgery and radiation were good enough. They were important modalities for the treatment of cancer, but we needed a third uh a third part of the triad. And that third part of the triad was chemicals. These chemicals would go into the body. He thought of them as microscopic surgeons who would go into the body, excise cancer cells, kill them, sparing normal cells and thereby uh and he he he invented he was actually the first person to invent a lovely phrase for them. He called them magic bullets. It's a word that rings through the idea rings through the history of cancer chemotherapy for its history and they were magical because they would discriminate between the cancer cell and the normal cell. Um polaric died little realizing that in fact the very first uh chemical treatments for cancer would be not magical but at least bullets because they came from war gases. Uh so in the in the in the mid uh 1900s uh for the first time as you know as the war broke out uh new gases were invented toxic gases poisonous gases were invented and this is a picture of mustard gas bombing in Italy in Bari Harbor and very soon pathologists including a pair of pathologists from this university from Stanford noted that in patients in soldiers sorry not patients soldiers who had been bombed with mustard gas there was a rapid uh depletion of white blood cells in their bone marrow. If you looked at their bone marrow, the white blood cells had disappeared. And so these pathologists made the conjecture that if this was really true and if all the other tissues were left behind, maybe if you took a different concentration of this mustard gas and you gave that mustard gas introvenously, maybe you would kill white blood cells that had turned cancerous and spare the rest of the body. It was a bold conjecture and in fact it was tested very soon after in the 1950s at Yale at Memorial at Colombia. Um and and it was found for the first time that if you diluted the mustard gas and gave it appropriately you could actually give patients chem would give patients remissions from cancers. The very first cancer to be thus treated was treated uh a silver smith was given uh he was about 50 odd years old was given a a diluted version of muscular gas with a with a big lymphoma. he had a remission but unfortunately would relapse and die uh later. But this idea that you could now take a chemical poison, a poisonous chemical, really an inhibitor of cellular growth, something that kills cellular growth and if you gave it under the right circumstances that you could somewhat selectively kill cancer cells and spare normal cells is the basis of of much of modern chemotherapy. It is the basis of nearly all of chemotherapy that predated the 1980s, but it is the basis still of much of modern chemotherapy. We'll come back to this idea again in a second, but that was all because of the discovery of of these mustard gas bombings and their consequence. Now, there's several features to be noted about this idea. Number one is all these drugs were discovered empirically. That is that they were found essentially by accident in the case of mustard gas by accident. and they were discovered as general inhibitors or general uh general uh chem chemicals that would in general dampen cellular growth. So it was based again on a simple single theory. We're still talking about a theory of cancer which had arisen in the 1900s. We're now in the 1950s but the treatments of cancer still are going back to that simple statement cancer is a disease of cells. It is a disease of growing cells. And in fact more and more such chemotherapies were deployed. And by the mid 1950s, there was not one but two or three of them empirically discovered cellular poisons that killed growing cells and appeared to have a narrow selectivity for cancer cells versus normal cells. All dependent on that simple statement on that simple hypothesis about the cellular origin of cancer. And the next series of drugs uh came out of Boston um and those were uh antivitamins. So not killers of cellular growth derived from mustard gases but also accidentally discovered serendipously discovered anti- anti antivitamins that would kill bone marrow cancers in this case and that was work done by Sydney Farber who was a pathologist working on children. Now Sydney Farber particularly focused on a disease called children's acute lymphablastic leukemia a variant of leukemia which was very lethal in children and he began to use anti antivitamins uh for that same purpose. But essentially we're still talking about uh as I said before empirically discovered chemicals which happen to be inhibitors of cellular growth going back to Verkow's hypothesis about cancer as a cellular disease. Um on just a quick side note uh a little story here uh about about the I became very interested in the very first patients who received chemotherapy. I think of them as kind of our first teachers, our our our the the patients who really mark the moments important moments in this journey. Um and I knew uh for instance that uh that uh from if you look if you look at a scientific paper of course you can know what the patient you you know something about the patients but their names are anonymized. Uh one of the interesting things about writing medical history is that you have to remove that. You have to go back behind the paper as it were move the curtains back and find who the people were. to make them into human beings again. Um, and so I was interested in in who these first patients were and I knew that the first child to be treated with chemotherapy was u was a child whose name was RS but I didn't know anything more about that child. Um so I was in Boston actually sitting in children's hospital where Barber had been working and I was I I went on a quest to find RS. Um and I started writing emails. I became somewhat obsessed with it. I wrote a hundred emails trying to find this child and nothing came back. This was in 2006. I was in the middle of the buried in the middle of my book and then I thought um I was I became really dejected and I I I took a I said I went in to to India to my parents house for a vacation and someone said you know um there's a historian of of chemicals u who lives three blocks from your parents house. Now we're 6,000 miles away from Boston. um and said, "Go visit this guy." And uh I went, it was in the evening. I said, "Well, I have nothing else to do." So, I walked over uh a few blocks from my parents. I had a long conversation with him. And then I was leaving uh kind of mid-inter evening. And he says to me, "Uh, by the way, you know, I was in Sydney Farber's clinic in 1971." Really? And he said, "Oh," and he gave me a roster uh and pictures of several of his patients, including all the first people who were on trial. "Would you like this?" And he plucked it out of his shelf and he handed me this. Um and this of course is a picture uh which is not on any searchable index. It is actually from a a a magazine, an evening uh magazine uh from Boston of two children and his name was Robert Sandler. RS was Robert Sandler. Uh this is how you write books. You have to travel 6,000 miles away, find something, and then come back. So in interestingly, I could come back then exactly to the same desk where I was working. And now 10 minutes away from there was this child's house. I could actually go to the house and in fact um the Ken Burns film begins at the house. It begins at that at the child's house. Uh and so I dedicated my book to Robert Sandler. My book is dedicated to Robert Sandler and those who came before and after him um as a kind of homage to everyone who serviced us by um by providing the kind of knowledge that we need to move cancer forward. Now this story which is a circular story going far away to find something that is next to you um has a kind of second circle circle of uh of stories which is that about a few uh weeks after my book was published I got a phone call in my office from from this gentleman and that's Robert Sandler's twin so imagine the dissociative experience so his name is Elliot u the imagine the following experience You go, he lives in Maine. You go to a bookstore. I hadn't heard of him. He hadn't heard of me. You go to a bookstore and you you're interested in in cancer because your your twin died of it uh as a child, this uh this this child. And you open a book and you find it dedicated to your brother. Um which is what happened. So he this so he he of course found the book and then he called me up. Um and so I got to know of course the full story behind all of this. I'm going to tell you one more story uh which is important. Uh the mother uh here is Helen Sandler. I I had the I had the opportunity to meet her. Um and Helen Sandler said to me something very you know thankfully fortunately my my book won lots of awards but to me the most most important comment uh that anyone has ever made about Emperor is Helen Sandler's comment. She said to me when when uh when Robert died u Sydney Farber uh begged her to perform an autopsy on the child and she said no you know he's had enough. uh he's gone through the that terrifying treatment. I just want his sanctity uh maintained. And he kept insisting. He said, you know, this is the only way we will learn for do it not for me but for children who will come come afterwards. And finally she relented. Um and she regretted that decision her entire life. And she said to me that reading my book, reading about Robert again sort of closed that circle. So three full circles as it were of journeys that came around fully. But a reminder again of what the role that people like you, patients, people like me, physicians and the role that we have together in moving this uh this this vision forward. That idea that now you could now you had not one chemical but now several chemicals all as I said empirically discovered chemicals that uh stopped cellular growth was brought to its full fruition uh by studies that followed this in the 1950s and 1960s. This is a picture of two men then very young men who moved to the National Cancer Institute in 1950s who began now to take one such chemical and combine it with other chemicals. So this is the thing. This is the birth of what we recognize as combination chemotherapy. Two or three chemicals now of of inhibitors of cellular growth or or or cellular metabolic poisons that allowed them to now deploy these in combination against cancers. And they much like Sydney Farber focused on blood cancers and in particular on the same disease that Farber had become interested in which was acute lymphablastic leukemia and others. This is a picture actually taken again not very far from here probably a few hundred feet from here of another giant in this field Henry Kaplan um uh who began at Stanford in the 1960s to not not only combine chemotherapies but also combine chemotherapies with very carefully directed radiation to try to see if you could cure uh another disease that was at that time very difficult to cure and that was Hodkdins disease Hodkins lymphoma and together these efforts by the mid 1960s revealed a very important important uh a very important series of results. Number one, it was found that for certain cancers, Hodgkins disease and for uh lymphablastic leukemia, in fact, the combination of these chemotherapies could achieve cures that were previously unachievable. So, just to give you an example of that, um acute lymphablastic leukemia when Robert Sandler walked into Sydney Farber Clinic had a mortality rate of 100% and a cure rate of 0%. uh by the 1950s because of the efforts of Emir fry and fry and some of the efforts of Henry Kaplan in that disease that uh cure rate had climbed to 40%. By the 1960s it had climbed to 70% and by the 1980s and 1990s the number that we have right now is around 80 to 90%. So this this disease was completely incurable in 1950 in the span of of 25 years became largely curable although there's still struggles in that disease itself but became largely curable. So a transformative effect in that in that disease. Hodgkins disease metastatic Hodkdins disease had a cure rate of 0% uh in the 1940s and 1950s. By the 1960s because of the efforts of of Henry Kaplan and and his many colleagues had climbed to around 40 50 and 60% depending on the subtypes that you had of of Hoskins disease. So real strides in some diseases. But what was also clear from these original trials by the 1970s that there was also a failing that somehow or the other other cancers metastatic breast cancer, metastatic pancreatic cancer, colon cancer, prostate cancer were not so easy to cure with these combination chemotherapies. In fact, the toxicities often overwhelmed the cure rates that were being achieved by these combination chemotherapies. So something was still missing. There was a missing element and we had to now I said this before the red queen had now move again and start building up a different strategy to move forward because the world of cancer had all of a sudden began to move far faster in the opposite direction. A new ingenious strategy was needed to move forward. U some of that strategy came not for from cancer uh physicians but in fact from cancer advocates. Cancer advocates working in the committee. There's a picture of Mary Lazer who whose role in this history is enormous. not because she was a cancer researcher, but because she really dedicated herself to to to to cancer researchers to be able to move their activities forward by what she called not fundraising only, but fundraising. She was a she was probably the most fierce advocate of biomedical research. Still remains one of the most fierce advocates of biome medical research. Even after her death, her foundation continues to be one of the most fierce advocates of biomedical research. and she began to campaign everyone that she knew nationally and internationally, Congress uh and many others to really uh to really focus on cancer and launch what would be called the war on cancer. So much so that if you woke up in 1969, you would find a newspaper advertisement, a full-size, full page newspaper advertisement which said, "Mr. Nixon, you can cure cancer with cancer cells eating off the bottom of that uh bottom of that last uh word." Um and the and the idea was that uh launched by Mary Lazer, the idea was look, we've had astonishing successes with a few cancers, Hodkdins disease, lymphoplastic leukemia, certain variants of breast cancer. Why don't we now just consolidate these successes and pour national resources in in a focused way to build the so-called war on cancer? And this is really the announcement of the war on cancer, the National Cancer Institute act, which became the war on cancer. And indeed the the the astonishing advancements all based of course going back to that simple idea. The astonishing advancements indeed did raise a huge public interest in in in transforming the world of cancer and the war on cancer was announced as you very well know in 1971 and then reality began to hit and that's this is the reality over here. So this is the announcement of the war on cancer, the expansion of the National Cancer Institute budget uh as resources began to be poured in to the war on cancer. And on the right side now tracking down from the 1970s to the 1980s uh in men and women uh the actual mortality rate from cancer. Uh the red line is the expected rate if things had moved on. The actual mortality rate which was expected in the 1970s to look like this but in fact looked like this. And that was the sobering uh sobering realization that something was still missing that in cancer prevention and in cancer treatment that we hadn't innovated enough to be able to change this line as it were from a plateau into a deeply dipping curve. And so all of a sudden it was as if the war on cancer had presented not a challenge to cancer physicians but a challenge to all of us cancer physicians, cancer activists, cancer advocates, people with cancer in their families to now rethink, go back to this drawing board and rethink and now come up with a second line of or second strategy of trying to figure out the the the attack. Well, the only way we know forward is through reason. the activity of reason is the only uh is the only mechanism that we can deploy to move forward in any disease and in particular in cancer. So the the going back to the drawing board meant going back to a theory again which brings me to the second uh the second idea as it were of cancer uh the second phase of cancer reach the second idea of cancer biology and that is that cancer is a disease not only of cells but of genes. Now remember way back when remember that that that peculiarity that that sand in the eye of cancer theory which was radiation for some reason was able to not only cure cancers but cause cancers and several people over the ne over the over the intervening 30 or 40 years had wondered why is it that radiation they must be doing something to the cell that causes or changing the cell in some way that causes cancer. And in the meantime, several people had figured out that one thing that radiation does is it changes genes. It causes mutations in genes. And it was through that line of thinking, as I said, a sand in the eye of of of cancer theory as a disease of cells that began to illuminate the idea that in fact cancer was of course a disease of cells, but in fact what was really changing were genes. And so there are several actors in this, several players from here from around the around the world. um I won't name all of them but but the essence of the theory was the following that is that the very genes that cause normal cellular growth if you mutate them if you change them for instance by virtue of X-rays you release malignant cellular growth and ultimately that's cancer now we take this idea many of us take this idea for granted now but this was an ex extremely radical idea in the 1970s and 1980s many of you who actually remember the first times uh this idea was announced. It of course was was a revolutionary idea and also a very chilling idea because here we were hoping that in fact it was going to be easy at the genetic level to dissociate cancer from normaly. But what the genetics told us was just the opposite. the genetics was telling us was in fact that the very genes that control normal cellular growth that allow your embryos to grow that allow our hands to grow that allow wounds to be healed that allow stem cells to grow if you mutate those genes you ultimately release abnormal growth abnormal cellular growth and that causes cancer. Now the important consequence of this is that cancer therefore becomes a disease really like nothing else. it becomes a disease in which normaly and illness are twinned like Robert and Elliot Sandler. They're they're part of the same spectrum and that small changes from normaly the very genes that control growth now become uh manifest uh in their malignant form in cancer and this began to explain of course why cancers were caused by environmental influences. This is a picture of PCL pot which one of the first people to figure it out. This is the surgeon general announcing that in fact tobacco causes cancer. If you didn't have a genetic theory of cancer, it'd be hard to explain how things like chemicals in the environment would somehow or the other coax your cells to start dividing abnormally. If you had a genetic theory of cancer, you could now say, well, the real missing link is it's genes plus environment. the environment impinges on genes, changes their structure, changes their it causes mutations and thereby releases cancer or or causes cancer. And that led to the third idea or the third phase of of cancer uh the third general phase of cancer biology, cancer theory, cancer treatment, and that is cancer is a disease not only of cells, not only of genes, but is a disease of genomes. By genomes of course we mean not one gene but the entire complement of about 20,000 odd genes that all human beings possess. So every cell has a complement of about 20 to 25 25,000 genes and cancer is a disease where not one gene is changed but multiple genes have to be changed. So going back to this uh going back to trace this intellectual history uh we we understood that alterations in growth causes causing genes cause cancer. The question is how many how common are they? what are they? What what is their identity? And in fact, several uh studies uh uh indicated that in fact not one one gene was insufficient that you'd have to have many genes. That in fact our cells had natural uh barriers against growth. Growth is a very very fundamentally important process for us. So important that our cells have complicated systems to compute whether they should grow or not grow. The decision for a cell to grow is an incredibly important decision and it requires more than one decision point and it's when many such decision points are abnormally altered by mutations in genes that you ultimately get uh ultimately release a cell that is uh that that can't stop growing or grows abnormally and that of course is cancer. So I want to spend a few minutes here because now we're beginning to come close to our to to to how cancer biologists understand cancer. So we're we're now beginning to circle a very contemporary description of cancer from the scientific point, but it has many many important implications about how we go ahead and what happens next. So here is a a hypothetical picture of a woman who comes into a clinic. Uh let's say she has breast cancer and the blank sheet of paper, forget about the dots for a second. blank sheet of paper has every gene in her body, all the 24,000 genes in her body and the first gene is on the top and you have every gene sort of printed out all the way to the last one and you have the capacity which we do now because of technology invented here and other places. We do now have the capacity to ask the question what genes have changed in her breast cancer cell. Uh what are the alterations of genes? So obviously some genes will be genes that are involved in regulating or computing growth control and you find that you have one two three four five six seven eight genes that have been uh altered in this woman and they're spread out in this kind of landscape view. Now here's the important point which is that the next woman comes in also with breast cancer. If Burkau were to look down his microscope a 100 years ago he would say well both of these are breast cancer. They look identical under the microscope. There's nothing no difference about them. And yet when you look at the genetic anatomy, the genomic anatomy, you find that there are some shared genes that are changed in two breast cancers, but there are some unique genes as well. So every breast cancer is its own breast cancer. And then a third person comes in, a third woman comes in and here too you see some commonalities, but here is another breast cancer which is its own breast cancer. Now you begin to now understand the kind of complexity that cancer biologists are dealing with. They're dealing with a disease whose number one genetic anatomy begs the difference between normal genetic anatomy because the the genes that control growth are very closely allied to normal genes that control growth and number two they're dealing with diversity of a phenomenal level. In other words, every individual specimen of an individual kind of cancer is its own cancer. And that is of course the the the challenge uh for us. That is the challenge. You can you can create uh these things called maps. Uh you know you can take genes that are common and make them into big peaks and genes that are uncommon and make them into small peaks. You can condense this information using uh using complex data algorithms into a picture. And this is actually now you're staring the enemy in the face. This is what the human cancer genome begins to look like. This is from colurectal cancer. Uh this is work work done by Bert Vogglestein. And what you see here are big peaks denoting the very commonly altered genes, medium-sized peaks denoting less commonly altered genes across many specimens. And then of course these dots, these dot, this dot for instance refers to one gene which is unique to one specimen of colorectal cancer not present in any other specimen of colorectal cancer. So the job now therefore is to annotate every single one of these genes and ask the question is it driving the cancer? Is it not driving the cancer? Is it incidental? not incidental. Can there be a medicine directed against this variant and can there not be a medicine against that variant? Now, you could say, "Oh my god, that job is impossible. This is an impossible." The diversity of cancer on one hand and also the fact that normal growth and abnormal growth really depend on the same genetic compliment. Those two tasks make it impossible. But if that was the case, of course, we'd have given up longer. We we we cannot give up. So we have to keep now looking gene by gene and piece of anatomy by piece of anatomy to try to genetic anatomy to try to move forward in trying to treat cancers and in fact it's not all hopeless because in fact you can do that. uh way back even in the 1980s when the first genetic maps were being figured out of cancer there were already attempts uh this is a picture from of an important trial from Japan from China and France which allowed uh the targeting of a of of a particular variant of leukemia acute promyioidic leukemia APML with a single medicine and just to tell you if you find these medicines the effects can be dramatic acute promitic leukemia was the most lethal form of myogynous leukemia ever. So in other words, if you had if you had the unfortunate luck of having myogynous leukemia, not children's alll, it's a different disease. Myogenous leukemia, if you had that disease, you would say to yourself as thank god it's not acute proosic leukemia because that is a virtually uniformly lethal disease. And yet the introduction of one medicine, retinoic acid, changed that disease to the one leukemia that you would want to have if you if if your cup were to run it over in that direction because it is now the most curable variant of acute myogynous leukemia. So it's like flipping a switch. You literally flipped a switch and all of a sudden a med a disease that was incredibly lethal with a appropriate uh genetic annotation, the appropriate research, the appropriate trials began to be uh uh much more curable disease. Still not fully curable but much more curable disease. And this experience has actually been repeated gene by gene, example by example in other cancers. And yet there remain big ch. This is a picture of of chronic myological leukemia. yet another disease doesn't doesn't resemble the other leukemias Brian Rooker who found along with working with a team of other other chemists and scientists who found that in fact you could take a molecule and you could lodge that molecule like an arrow uh into the gene that was driving uh this particular cancer one of the most again a cancer that was very very lethal uh and then all of a sudden you could convert that cancer into a chronic disease for most patients so much so that patients who are responding to glevec really don't have um a lifespan that seems to be any different than patients who don't have uh leukemia at all. They actually their lifespan is normalized. They still have to take a pill to keep the remission going, but it's a really remarkable uh development in that cancer. And this has been repeated elsewhere with other cancers that may be more familiar to you. This is a uh this is breast cancer uh her two positive breast cancer. again a a careful analysis of its genetic anatomy, finding one common gene that seemed to be present in multiple specimens of her two positive breast cancer. And this is patient zero of her. She was the woman uh Barbara Bradfield is um was a woman treated 16 years ago uh with the uh with an antibbody in this case uh for uh for this cancer. uh she had metastatic breast cancer and actually still survives today uh with a with a breast cancer that was virtually untreatable about 16 or 17 years ago and and this particular variant of cancer just last month had three more medicines that came out for this particular variant of of breast cancer. So again a series of remarkable treatments for selected cancers as we move forward with this with this anatomy genetic anatomy. But then like all theories even this begins to come to its peak and it's a reminder why we need to keep moving forward keep moving innovating. This is a picture of uh CML, chronic myogynous leukemia, now treated with that new drug I talked about, now no longer new, called ematan. Um and uh you see the patients who didn't receive the drug uh dropping off in survival in contrast to patients who did receive Gleevec. So as I said a a large change um in survival and this axis is on the order of 70 odd months. So this is a significant amount of of time five seven 10 years of of of remission and some treatments as well. This is breast cancer treated with herptin another targeted therapy genetically annotated targeted therapy uh for breast cancer. And now we see what we see is that metastatic breast cancer you see that the months have shrunk. We're now at 50 months over here with with a patient with metastatic breast cancer. Still patients who receive drug are get an enormous benefit. But it's not like GLvec. The cancer is more complex. Its genetics are is more complex. The therapy is more complex. And the the the gains still present are now more modest compared to the the uh compared to glec. This is melanoma. Again, a cancer that we've begun to understand. We have begun to understand its genetic anatomy. And now we're shrinking down to this is metastatic melanoma shrink shrunk down to about 10 months. Still patients with a little bit of benefit but at the end of those 10 months with a targeted therapy against their melanoma uh against the genes that are driving the melanoma but the cancers develop resistance and then the patients die as a consequence of the resistant disease. So it is now we are living right now this moment we're living through the uh the the the end of one other era of cancer therapy which is genetically directed cancer therapy as a single agent. We're we're finding out that in truly complex cancers even that won't do. We need to innovate once more again. We to go back to the board and start a a fresh to try to refresh what happens next. So, I'm going to spend the last few minutes talking about my visions and actually my visions that are shared by many people in the cancer field about what happens next. What do we do? What do we do from here? Where does the drawing board go back? To me, what's interesting, what's exciting is the capacity to now incorporate all these pieces of information in a way that's datadriven and then convert that into new treatments, prevention, and potentially cures for some cancer. And it's based on an idea which is now taking root and that is that cancer is not just a disease of cells and genes and genomes but it's an organismal disease. It lives in organism. It lives in real human beings and it it's sustained by physiology that lives inside real human beings. So by organismal I mean it we we think of organisms as having physiology. They have uh they have environments. They have interactions. So can we now think of cancer having physiology as well? What does the physiology of cancer look like? And if that if we can take now not just the genetics, not just this a cellular biology, but if you can think about cancer as a physiological entity, can you now intervene on cancer physiology? Uh organisms live by virtue of complex pathways. They live within complex networks. Well, we need new data and ways to integrate big data into a way that makes sense of the physi physiological networks that sustain cancer. So just to give you one example of this and how data plays into all of this. I mean if you ask someone in the 1980s what cancer how cancer occurred this is this is the time of the genetic theory of cancer they say well there's a mutation it changes a gene that causes cancer. You came back by the 1990s now all of a sudden the mutation sits at the top of this and now you see a network of connected events that allows the cell to be disregulated grow abnormally in a physiological sense and that ultimately causes cancer. And this is now the same pathway in 2014. That's what it looks like now. So you see individual nodes communicating with individual nodes and you say my goodness this gives you a headache. But to biologists it doesn't give us a headache. Actually this is because we want we we need to know instead of building simplified models we need to understand what the level of complexity is because then we can go back and and try to intervene on single networks. So it's not one gene mutated and all of a sudden boom you get an abnormality in growth control. It is that the the the alterations in genomes are causing alterations in cellular physiology. The way cells digest chemicals, the way cells eat sugar, the way cells consume oxygen, the way they interact with the immune system. All of this is happening and ultimately that is what is excuse me unleashing the abnormal growth of cancer cells. And this is uh this is this is true not only at the microscopic level, but it's true at the macroscopic level. This is I'm going to end with this last study which emphasizes that this understanding of cancer in the in in in a physiological sense extends not only to organisms but to networks of organisms to societies. Um this is a study which I find fascinating in which which was which was performed in in Framingham in Massachusetts in which uh and actually went to the study site uh in which they asked the simple question which is that we know that smoking is a is a major cause of lung cancer, lip cancer and other kinds of esophageal cancer etc. And we know we've we spent decades trying to figure out how to stop smoking. There are taxes, there are campaigns against smoking. You watch the television, you watch your and yet smoking persists in a kind of metaphorical analogy in the same way that cancer seems to persist in human society. So can we get rid of of behaviors that that that that cause and and sustain cancers in society? So what they did was very interesting. They went to this uh went to this uh this uh uh village uh a small town in Massachusetts and they said, "Okay, we'll create a social map of every interaction with every other individual." So in other words, if you played golf with Mr. Jones, you would be you'd be connected in this map. Uh if you if your neighbor is another person, that's another connection. Your uncle is in this is this a connection. So it's it's it's Facebook before Facebook. Um uh so they created a social map in this manner. And then they asked a very important question which is that now on top of that social map, the social network, I'm going to now superpose smoking behavior. So every dot here in 1971 corresponds to whether you smoked or not, how much you smoked. uh etc. And then they asked the third question which is now I'm going to follow this network over time. So I'm going to move this network from 1971 to 2000 to ask the question who continues to smoke in despite the the anti-smoking campaigns who quits and who starts. What's very interesting is that in the end the people who continue to smoke versus those who quit really one of the strongest determinants are their neighbors their social neighbors. In other words the social network is an independent determinant determinant. The social physiology is an independent determinant of whether you quit or whether you stay smoking. And so it really begins to make us rethink about addictive behaviors or behaviors in general that are cancer-causing or not not cancer causing. Taxation won't help that necessarily. What you need is you need you need to understand what the structure is, what the physiology is, in this case a macroscopic physiology. And now rethink how can we excuse me infiltrate those networks and disable them in the same way and a microscopic level how you can infiltrate and disable individual cellular networks that cause or sustain cancer. So I'm going to we we've gone on a big journey and I'm going to stop here. The journey begins with cell with cells. It moves to genes. it moves to genomes and ultimately ends in physiology. And it's there's something very satisfying I think in being able to come back to this idea over and over again and emphasizing that we need innovation at every stage and the minute we stop innovating the world will switch and throw us behind it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Well, uh, please join me again in thanking Dr. uh, Mukerji for an incredible talk. Thank you. Um, I'd now like to open the floor for a few questions just by brief introduction. My name is Amir Dan Rubin. I'm the president and CEO here at Stanford Hospital and Clinics. And probably like all of you, I am just um super excited about this great journey that you have taken us through, but even more excited maybe about the future. So, let's open it to the group. There are microphones in the middle and we have our orange shirt people are handing out microphones. And yes, ma'am, we have our first uh question over here. Yes, I have a question. I am currently a multiple myyoma patient having gone through a stem cell transplant. I'm soon going to be 69. But my first um attack where I was told I had cancer, I was 20 and told I had a brain cancer, I did not. But I underwent all kinds of nasty treatments. Um and then went on to five bladder cancers and then on to breast cancer and then onto an ovarian cancer. And when people ask me what was my cancer of origin, um I honestly believe it was changing my blood chemistry with some of the uh treatments that I had underwent when they thought I had uh a brain brain cancer which included mercury brain scanning tests and a bunch of other things that came about as a virtue of the fact that there were no MRI, CT scans or whatever else back then. Is that a valid well idea possibly or no? I mean, I don't know what my cancer of origin is, but I really think since all the way since 1976, I've had anemia and severe blood cancer problems. I honestly believe that I probably had uh multiple myyoma smoldering along all along. Well, I think it's it's it's it's certainly I don't know what what what exactly you were treated with, but we know that some of the uh some of the cancer curing reagents um are carcinogenic in themselves. I mean this is an unfortunate bargain that we had to take and have to take still actually still we're in an era where we have to take a bargain between cancer uh cancer treatments. U it is my hope that we won't have to do this anymore. In other words, it's my hope that in 10 years we will really be able to laugh at our previous attempts, fumbling attempts at chemotherapy. And I really really sincerely hope that we will be able to buy by the by the beginning of the next decade begin to bring therapies which are much much more targeted towards individual alterations in genes. Um in in particular cases when there are multiple cancers in families, it's actually worthwhile asking the question whether there's a genetic component to this as well. Almost always there's an interaction between genes and and and the environment. Just to tell you what the unexplored quality of that is, I'll just give you one example. If you take breast cancer and you take familial breast cancer in which we know that there's a family history of breast cancer and that's why it's being caused uh through multiple generations, when you ask the question how many of familial breast cancers can be explained by the genes that we know already cause breast cancer, the answer is about 30%. So in other words, 70% of cancer where we know that there's a family history and there has to be a genetic component, at least a genetic component. 70% of those cases we still don't know what the actual genes are. So it is an it is really a and the only way we'll know those genes is if those patients collaborate with physicians, if we form alliances and figure out how we could how because this is technologically now available. This is this is now this is tech technologically possible. So uh so I if I had to make a conjecture I would say that there was probably a consequence of chemotherapies but it sounds like there's some there there's some gen genetics that needs to be explored and maybe we're at the stage we could probably explore that. When do you declare cancer as cure? I mean person has cancer, you give him one of these magic treatments and five years later it pops up again and maybe he dies of a heart attack. So is the cancer cured? Well, so there are some there are some so the the answer is it actually depends on the kind of cancer. So for so so what one of the things that that I think has been a learning experience for the medical community as well as for patients is that it it is that the pace of the original cancer dictates when a person is declared cured or not. And number two that in fact now we can go back with much much deeper technology and understand whether the new relapse of cancer is because of a second cancer that arose or because it was that original cancer now coming back and relapsing after after prolonged remission. We actually still don't know uh for many many cases. Now for rapidly growing cancers like leukemia usually that number is 3 to five years because if by 3 to five years usually those cancers have stopped growing but they're slow growing tumors. Just to give you one example, metastatic breast cancer can be in remission for 15 years and relapse. Uh metastatic colon cancer can be in remission for 12, 13, 14, 15 years and then relapse. In contrast, usually leukemias don't behave like that. So it really depends on the kind of cancer. But in 10 years ago, we had very very few tools which would allow us to answer the simple question which is is the second cancer new or is the second cancer a consequence of the first cancer. Those tools are clearly present now. We have those tools without a problem. So in the looking forward into the future that is a very important distinction. If it's the same cancer being coming back then of course treating you with the same therapies is not going to help. If it's a different cancer, then we can actually treat you with the same therapies if particularly if they were effective the first time around. And this technology has already been covered. We have this technology. It will it will become available. It's already become available for leukemias. So it's a it's an important technological innovation already available today versus 50 years ago or 20 years ago. And secondly, I guess what's really behind my question is are there things in our environment today, I'm making the assumption that there there is an increase in cancer rates here maybe incorrectly, but are there things in our environment or in that we all carry cell phones or there's a lot more chemicals in the food we are there things that may be contributing to that? Yeah. So, so two very important questions. So, let's talk about the cancer interest increase in cancer rates. It is a very you might think that it's an easy to answer question but it's an incredibly difficult to answer question for the simple reason I'll give you a couple of important points about it. Number one is if you begin to look you will begin to detect earlier and earlier cancer because technology keeps evolving. So of course if you looked naively or if you looked at a quick glance and ask the question well what happened to breast cancer rates? Well it look like this. And the reason it looks like that is because if you point to that kink in the curve, that's when mimography is introduced, right? So it'll look like this because you've introduced a technique to to to to diagnose cancer earlier and earlier. And once you have that technique, of course, earlier and earlier cancer will be diagnosed. So you will be falsely assuming that you in fact have an increase in a rate of cancer in the prevalence of cancer when it actually doesn't actually change. So you have to be careful about that piece. what you can do so so really the so so the metric that works very well is a very difficult metric I'm going to talk about this I talk about this extensively in the book and that is that cancer related mortality is immune to all of these changes in other words the question that we should be asking is are more people dying of cancer today than they were dying of cancer 10 years ago or 15 years ago that's the question to ask now that question is also a complicated question because of course the whole population is aging as in general So the population is expanding over time and so if you look at that of course there'll be more cancer related deaths in 2014 than there were in 1984 because the entire cohort of population has expanded. So what we do to in order to correct for that there's a way to correct for that. So you use a a very careful statistical trick I describe it in the book to correct for all of that. So you can now really compare apples to apples 1988 to 2010. Now if you do all of this and ask the question with the appropriate controls is the is cancer related death changing the answer is complicated but important. U I have a slide and I I'll show you what the actual cancers look like. So you actually let's talk about real data rather than talking in the abstract. I didn't show this slide because I was anticipating the uh question. So this is what it looks like. So on this side this is cancer related mortality. So immunized against early diagnosis. Um and what you see is a huge variation between individual forms of cancer. So just to give you some example some highlights of this. This is lung cancer and this is explicable. So this is because of smoking. So essentially this peak this rise is a consequence of smoking in the 1950s 1960s. First among men then following among women. If you were to divide this curve up into men and women, you'd see that. And this fall is because of tobacco prevention. This this curve goes out, I think, into the 2005 or something range. This curve has continued to fall. Here's leukemia. We talked about leukemia. You can see a slow decline over time. And that is because of treatment. Has nothing to do with prevention. You can't really prevent leukemia at this stage. We don't know how to prevent leukemia, but that's because of treatment. Lymphoma similarly because of treatment. Colon cancer because of treatment. Cervical cancer because of prevention. So because of papsmears and now to some extent because of the of vaccines. If you were to look at pancreatic cancer it looks like a flat line right through. Uh if you look at prostate cancer it goes up a little bit and then comes down again. So in each individual form of cancer uh it these are the individual trends. Now if you now were to slap everything together what would it look like? It looks like a line that starts off, it grows really driven by lung cancer, grows over the 1970s and 1980s, grows to its peak in the 1980s, begins to plateau. This is now aggregate. I'm talking about aggregate in general. And has begun to plateau and has begun to drop down by about 1% to 2% every year. So that is the aggregate. So I'm sorry that's a long answer. We have to talk about very real numbers here. And it is cancer dependent. It has to be mortality. can't be cancer prevalence. For many cancers, it's the the cancer mortality has decreased. For many cancers, it's remained the same. And for some cancers, the the changes have been dramatic. Now, you can take that and put it in your hat and smoke it. All right, we have time for one more question. One more question, please. I have a question here. Can you hear me? Yes. Is it on? Um, they tell me that lung cancer leads to brain cancer. Now, is that so? No, it doesn't. So, often when they're when they're saying what what what they really mean is that there are certain variants of lung cancer that metastasize or can metastasize to your brain and then they're called brain cancer, but in fact, not brain cancer at all. What they are is what they are is lung cancer that's moved to the brain and it should be treated as so so one of the things that we found out we know more and more is that when lung cancer goes to the brain for instance or when breast cancer goes to the to the liver it doesn't become the liver it remains breast cancer in the liver in fact one of the challenges to figure out how to treat breast cancer in the liver and what the similarities and differences are between one and the other. That was the question. But the other question was if someone has prostate cancer and then has a melanoma and then has leukemia. No, not leukemia. Um lymphoma is that related to So again it would go back to to the question the lady the question that this lady was asking. And so think to take a step back. There are two major influences over here, right? So one influence is the environment. The second influence is genes and we know cancer is a consequence of an intersection between those two. Genes are activated or inactivated by the environment ultimately leading to cancer. So when whenever I see a patient like this I have always asked this very simple question. What are the environmental influences? What are the genetic influences? What are the influences from the family history? And are these random? Right? So if you now compute all of these together 10 years ago we had absolutely very little technology that would allow us to discriminate all these pieces. These pieces seemed as if they were sort of different parts of the chessboard. Now the technology exists to put these four things together and ask the question in a much more intelligent way. The problem and here's here's the problem. The problem is even today if such a case was to arise, we would treat that patient with lymphoma therapy for lymphoma, leukemia therapy for leukemia, myoma therapy for myoma, brain cancer therapy for brain cancer. It's as if you know you're touching the elephant and you have you know on some person sees the tail and treats the tail. Some person touches the trunk and teachs the trunk. You have to integrate these pieces of information and I think of the data that we have now will allow us to integrate this information. Uh we could not do this 10 years ago. Thank you very much. Thank you again. Thank you so much. The proceeding program is copyrited by the board of trustees of the Leland Stanford Jr. University. Please visit us at med.stanford.edu. edu.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: tDI3wl1KSxc (https://youtu.be/tDI3wl1KSxc) ===

good evening everyone I'm Ron Vale the executive director of Genelia research campus and I'd like to welcome everyone to a very special evening with our honored guest Siddhartha Mukherjee and I'd like to also extend uh special warm greetings to um friends from our local Louden County Community many of whom are here in person uh but this event was so popular it sold out so we've also made this event uh accessible online uh through the Loudoun County Public Library so I want to thank them as well uh so welcome genelians and welcome Loudon County and I hope that you will enjoy this uh special dialogues event this evening so I'm going to keep my opening remarks uh fairly short because we're going to cover Sid's background and his work during our conversation but in brief most of you know of Sid Mukherjee uh as being one of the finest non-fiction authors in science and medicine I would say of our time so Sid uh kind of burst onto the scene in 2010 uh with his non-fiction book um the Emperor of all maladies which is a fascinating historical and personal perspective of cancer as a as a disease and for this work Sid uh was awarded the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for a general non-fiction Sid's second book uh the gene an intimate history also made it to number one on the New York Times bestseller list uh and Ken Burns produced two PBS documentaries on uh these works one on the Emperor of all maladies and the second documentary on the gene and then Sid's latest book the song of the cell which many of you have received uh tonight was released last fall um and we'll talk about that in our conversation and Sid has also written numerous essays and opinion pieces for the New York Times and also the New Yorker but being an author is Sid's night job uh Sid's primary job is as a physician scientist at Columbia University where he's an oncologist taking care of patients with cancer and his Devotion to helping patients is also the driving force behind SIDS also very influential work as a scientist so it is a very active and exciting research program that includes genetically engineering immune cells to treat cancer and also engineering stem cells for the purpose of treating osteoarthritis which brings me uh to yet another hat that SIDS Sid wears as an entrepreneur with the purpose of advancing his ideas uh to the clinic said it has founded at least three companies that I'm aware of uh instead I have co-founded one of these companies together and uh it's really been a great pleasure working with Sid in that capacity but in addition uh to all his professional work Sid also has a very busy uh family life um he uh is married uh his wife Sarah is an accomplished artist and they have uh two daughters and there's a New York Times article devoted just to what Sid does with his family on a typical Sunday uh which is called how Dr Siddhartha murpaji cancer expert Spends His Sundays which actually I encourage you to read because I think it really illustrates how much Sid can manage to do so thoughtfully in a single day uh so indeed to me uh Sid seems to be the Emperor of time and priorities um and we are all the beneficiaries of his time and his priorities because through his work Sid sends so many positive ripples uh throughout the world so uh Sid it is a great honor to have you uh at genelian thank you for coming thank you for spending uh the day and the evening with us and Ladies and Gentlemen let's welcome Sid Mukherjee thank you thank you so much write all your books here okay well it's a door stopper um so uh anyway Sid thank you again yeah well this is also a great opportunity uh for me um to ask some questions that I've actually been curious about for a long time but never felt like I could really ask you in a professional setting so um uh I think this will be a fun conversation and just as a as a framework for this dialogue and kind of a road map both for you and the audience I thought we'd uh cover a little bit about your you know personal history your background your path to science and medicine and then of course everyone's curious about uh how he became an author and how you work as an author and um I also do want to say to uh the audience that uh um we have a new research program at Genelia called 40 cellular physiology uh which is very much in the spirit of this book so uh those at Genelia and actually others from the community I really encourage you to read it because it's a beautiful history of the of ideas in cell biology and also um the amazing future ahead of uh cell biology as a discipline and for the future of medicine so um uh it's really kind of foundational actually for the work we're doing right now at Genelia um and then maybe we'll cover your own science and your work particularly as it relates to cell therapy and then uh finally a topic I think that you and I are both interested in uh and everyone uh many people are which is um you know how we hold a conversation with the public about science particularly during these times when um um it's so important to convey what what science is to understand science and uh and hopefully kind of reverse the current epic of mistrust and science uh that we're seeing so um so anyway why don't we get started um so you know I started the last conversation with our previous guest who is Freeman robowski um by asking him about his grandmothers okay as kind of a route into uh his personal history and um I thought that would be a good entry point for this conversation too yes because I will uh fill out my first footnote here from the gene and um uh this book the gene uh is dedicated uh to uh your grandmother uh um priyabala Mukherjee and you said I owe a debt to my grandmother uh she weathered the buffets of history with resilience but she weathered the buffets of heredity with something more than resilience the grace that we and her descendants can only hope to emulate it is to her that this book is dedicated so I maybe you can tell us about your grandmother the kind of historical times in which she lived and why she was influential to you in your life um so first of all thank you Ron um thank you for everyone for joining up um uh my grandmother uh on my father's side was um was a complicated character um uh We've um uh we've heard the term tiger mom she was a sort of tiger Grandmom um but for very very important reasons so um the uh much like um uh the War uh in the United States um the definitional event in the history of India's partition um so that happened in 1947 um and as you know the country which stretched across what is now Pakistan India and Bangladesh was all under one territory was then at the 1947 split into two territories what was then called Pakistan and East Pakistan bizarrely enough connected by no land mass but governed under the same government an idea that's completely mad um and then Indian India in the middle um my grandmother's family um or my family comes from East Pakistan Bangladesh which and then they moved um in my grandmother's case just a few weeks before partition into Calcutta which is where she grew up where she brought her children my father was around 14 at that time and he had um for Elder Brothers um um that's when um things begin to fall apart but also our our formational in the history of my family um so as many people have known in my books um my books are are simultaneously um I would say very uh broad histories of science but also very uh deep personal histories and I don't make a distinction between one and the other they you when you read a book my books you weave between one and the other and you you know it's like moving from one room to another room so this book the gene is about heredity and the particular heredity personal heredity that I have in this book is of mental illness um uh in particular of bipolar disease and schizophrenia so um my of my father's originally five brothers um one of them um uh now in Calcutta post-partition um unfortunately dies of um a kind of bipolar diaphysis we now recognize as a very manic syndrome another one is not diagnosed with but because we didn't have the words for it um has schizophrenia um that's in the first generation and then um my grandmother takes this second um the schizophrenic Sun sort of under her Wing um and comes to live with us in in Delhi after my father moves to Delhi so we are in a family in India we're in a nuclear family of course everyone lives together she lives with my uncle with schizophrenia and then the the in the heredity pattern of disease becomes even more apparent when a cousin from another one of the father's children also is now diagnosed with schizophrenia now we have the vocabulary for it and as there is institutionalized He Still Remains institutionalized um and then in the third generation there's another two people with uh with bipolar disease uh or some version of bipolar disease um one of them being me um so um and uh my grandmother to some extent watches all of this happen the but I would call the diaphysis of not just partition and its consequences but of mental illness and its consequences and she um becomes in her life a kind of Fierce Protectors of my um very ill Uncle who lives with us um and then ill to very ill cousin who also initially you know lives with us for a little bit but ultimately is institutionalized and it's not until I grow up and become a physician myself that I sort of realize the kind of um in temperate Grace um that it required that is required to do that um you need to become a doctor to understand the the simultaneous intemperance and also the the dignity and Grace that you have to give to people who are unwell um and so that's the uh that's why this book is dedicated to my grandmother lovely so how did this um influence you so you're growing up in this um household environment um did this have any influence on like your path to medicine or you know I again I a lot of this I didn't think about and it's important we can come back to this idea a lot of this I didn't think about until I was writing a book because these are thoughts that get buried inside you bury inside your Consciousness you don't really think about them and then you say to yourself oh gosh you know while you're writing a book you save yourself oh my God this is sort of my origin story that that I'm writing and and you know I was talking to some some of the postdocs and and group leaders here and a lot of questions was you know how much what the process of thinking of writing a book is and it's very much for me like like you know as I'm writing I'm kind of realizing things that I didn't understand before and that's true for science of course as well um but it's also true for personal history um and so I was writing the Gene and um it actually Sarah my wife reminded me she said you know you understand why you know she was reading a draft of the books he said and this is in 2016 I've been a doctor now for you know God 16 20 years and she said you realize why you became a doctor and I said oh gosh I suppose I do because writing about um illness and Grace and dignity that comes with protecting protecting the ill and and so yes so the answer is of course it does but but it was sort of buried somewhere in in my unconscious until it came out in this book yeah I may come back to your upbringing but um just following that thread for a moment um yearbooks are very personal which makes them uh both accessible and um you know this is a combination of emotion along with you know the real science that that makes them uh very impactful but um you share a lot of uh stories of patience so beautifully right from the get-go when you open up the first chapter but as you said you also share a lot about yourself um in an amazingly honest and I would say almost vulnerable way it's called over sharing it's maybe over sharing but um just following up what you said is I I mean maybe for me that would be very hard but you know when you think about what drives you to write what gets you up with the passion to put down words on the page is that part of your motivation when you became a writer that you did have your own story to tell and that was kind of an intentional part yeah I think most people who write uh and look at these most people write well um uh when you ask them why they've written a book or um why they did something this is probably true for scientists too that's just something that scientists share um would give you an answer that goes along the lines up and there are many variants of this but it goes along the lines of well what else could I do um uh there's really it's not as if this there's a you know you have a set of options uh and you decide to not write um mostly you're writing and and again to some extent you're doing science because that's the only thing you know how to do um I mean otherwise we become Bankers or something um uh but I think that's part of the drive part of the drive is is letting it out um and letting the stories out um I have a wonderful story here because um um I I heard a joke in medical school um about a medical student who I just saw a patient in the in the emergency room um with back pain um and he said uh so he was a you know he was the first three medical student and he said he went up with the guy with back pain and he said oh my gosh you've got pancreatic cancer um and so the guy went through an MRI and a CAT scan and turned out he had pancreatic cancer um so uh at the end of the year the medical student gets the first prize in the medical school for diagnosing pancreatic cancer um and he goes up and the professor of medicine comes up and says uh well that was amazing I mean you know um how did you diagnose um you know pancreatic cancer and this person with back pain and the medical student goes up and says well what other causes of back pain are there um not also the most wonderful way of sharing the news with the patient either so anyway so it's a little bit like it's a little bit like that you know you know what what else could I do but you're right right uh about uh well before we go on to the next thing I I think you could have written also a wonderful book on these stories of patience which would also bring you know this to life yeah but you added this you know extra layer on on your own life uh that is yeah and to be honest I mean you know in the traditional rhyme we can speak a little bit about writing and the tradition of writing um I sort of fused uh unconsciously fused many things together so I fused um a strand of writing which is which continues from sort of the Victorian case history to Oliver Sacks um uh who was by the way uh notoriously private it's not until a very late book of his that we actually learn anything exactly about all of our sacks we actually don't know I knew all over myself at Columbia but we don't know anything about all our sets although he tells you everything about patience um so there's that there's that strand um then there's a second strand which I would say you know again a Big Rich history um starting from uh you know people like Lewis Thomas and others who've written about science in an accessible way and then there's a third strand of writing Memoir um and there are many people who write Memoirs Physicians who write written Memoirs um Sharon Newlin comes to mind and and others who've written Memoirs which have patient stories in them um and I thought well why don't we put everything into one big pot and boil it um and would you do so well which is which is how these books came about here yeah well we'll come back to the books in a second but let's uh let's go back to Delhi for a moment yeah um your your father was an executive at Mitsubishi your mom was a school teacher um you know we've heard your family moved from a partition to Kolkata to Delhi so how is it in that background that you somehow kindled an interest in in science or medicine well um you know so I I sort of naturally gravitated towards it I was interested in in science I was interested in medicine right from medicine came later I think I was interested in science I was uh you know I had good teachers I had great teachers great particularly good um biology teacher um technically I think they're extremely influential um as um uh you know just um along with our common friend Tara varmus um just did a kind of a pro bono event for uh the New York uh Science Foundation which runs a a free program for children um in the Queens um flushing area and the reason I did it I mean they just wrote me out of the blue the reason I did it was because I I think that that those influences as children are extraordinarily critical um and for me it was a good teacher um um and there are a lot of teachers or some teachers here in the audience too so well thank you for your work because I mean it really makes a huge difference especially for someone in their formative years if you have a bad teacher you know what happens uh but if you're a good teacher you also know what happened so so I I became more and more interested in science I you know was interested in I would say when I by the time I went to college I was interested in all the Sciences I had a hard time figuring out sort of what science I was interested in I was not interested in I also happen to have um and I haven't written about this I'm actually writing a piece about her I happen to have a very good English teacher um who in the middle of her teaching career while she was teaching me was diagnosed with breast cancer and died of breast cancer um uh and this was the time this was 1980s where in India where you know you had surgical options but nothing very much beyond that this was you know um herceptin had not even entered sort of it was around in the United States but not around in India so um so I so I had you know two very strong teachers two very strong Traditions as it were very good um mathematics and and biology and then English as well so I think those are very formative in terms of my decisions and then what about your decision to come to the U.S was there uh how did that come about was there another path where you could have stayed in there were many pots and in fact it was very uncommon when I came I came to the United States in 1989 um there were four undergraduates at Stanford Stanford there were four undergraduates from India at Stanford um that year that number has now swelled to 50 70 80. I have no idea what the numbers look like but there were four this was a time when um you know India was a was a um kind of a Soviet model social estate uh this was pre-liberalization so in order to get U.S currency you know my father had to stand in line and fill out a form and triplicate um um and request a bureaucrat for a thousand dollars um and then pay them and that's that's the maximum you could get um in terms of how much you could get out of the country um so uh it was um it was uh it was it was very uncommon um and the only other thing I can tell you is that um I was admitted so I I applied um I wrote all my applications by hand I know this because my daughter just got into college and she's going to college next year but um I was remarking on the difference I wrote all my applications by hand mailed them myself in uh you know old mailing slips uh everything was done by hand there was no email um so I went to the I used to go to what was then the U.S Council which was a you know one of these uh buildings that the US Embassy figure out how to apply for what colleges um I had been to the United States before and traveled before I was very inspired by um by uh by the sort of liberal arts education system here um and had been to Berkeley in particular my cousins had gone to Berkeley UC Berkeley um where Jennifer are a common friend is a professor I was very inspired by UC Berkeley UC Berkeley was a state school so it didn't have any real mechanism for someone like me to sort of be in at UC Berkeley so I said well I'll apply to the nearest college which must be similar uh called Stanford um China they were not similar at all um uh and I got in and I also got into uh Harvard and I this is not a joke my English teacher cried real tears when I told her that I was going to go to Stanford over um Harvard University and she said no one has ever from India has ever turned down and Harvard he University had started crying and I said it's got to be a first so well you started a trend yeah um well speaking of uh Stanford and also mutual friends uh Paul Berg yes so um uh paulberg is um won a Nobel Prize for recombinant DNA and uh remarkable person um I was also at Stanford for um in the MD PhD program and Paul was certainly one of my like favorite yes teachers role models and you worked in his lab so I was wondering if you could describe like how did that influence your yeah your path and um it's a strange thing you know you you as you grow older of course many of these people vanish physically but um they don't vanish from you from you mentally the public died three four months ago it was a very very important very influential character in my life he's of course very much in the gene very much in the discussions around the book on the cell and unfortunately passed away um I um I was an undergraduate when I approached Paul I think I may have been the first undergraduate to work in his laboratory um it may have been one of the only one of two undergraduates to ever work in this Laboratory um I learned about Paul because I I had become by that time as an undergraduate my second year become very intrigued and interested not only in his scientific work on the common Indian people who don't know what the common in DNA is Paul was the first person to um propose and then stitch together two pieces of DNA from completely different organisms because the genetic code is universal um Paul suggested and thought through the idea and because DNA is a chemical ultimately he thought through the ideas of asking well what if we took the DNA from the bacteria in a virus or eventually a DNA from a bacteria and a human cell and cut them and paste them together to form a single molecule of DNA which was contiguous now of course now we think that that's completely normal um but in the time that Paul was doing this in the late 1970s early 80s it's considered extraordinarily radical because all of a sudden you could do molecular cloning you could take a piece of DNA from a virus and a piece of DNA from a bacteria and a piece of DNA from a horse and put them all together into one continuous piece of DNA and if you put that into a cell the cell would think that it was one part of the same um uh genetic code and that's how you could make for instance insulin um in a yeast cell or a bacterial cell or a mammalian cell or you could make a new protein out of anything so so that was what Paul's scientific discovery um was along with some other other people he's not the only person but Paul also did something that was very that was equally important and equally influential in my life which is that once he had made that Discovery um he organized a series of conferences um the most important one being the azilamar Conference held in the silamar in which uh scientists led by Paul themselves put a moratorium on this work before the ethical and biosafety implications of this kind of work could be figured out and uh the Asylum are conference it was actually a system R2 um was a landmark event because it was an event that was will come back to it because in every event that was not only attended by scientists but also attended by lawyers by ethicists by journalists by the broad public in order to create a consensus or a a view about what should be done while this new technology which was obviously revolutionary it obviously could be used in um revolutionary manners could be managed by the community of scientists communicated to the broader public and and scientists would get feedback about how it could be best managed um as we moved along to the Future Paul had done both of these so the idea of him wearing two hats or multiple hats um was very intriguing to me um and they of course have to do with the books because the books also wear multiple hacks so I went up to Paul as an undergraduate knocking on a door um knocked on his door and said Paul I'd love to work with you um and miraculously he said yes and then I was like oh my God to work in Paul voice lab so anyway and then we became friends we've been friends for life and um but I would go to Stanford I'd have dinner with them and talk and there's a lot of um talk with all talk about Paul in all of the books right after the third book and um uh sadly um and I when I'd give scientific seminars at Stanford which I would do now as first a student and a graduate student than a poster and finally an independent investigator um I'd see Paul on sort of the front of the audience and uh asking questions and then have dinner with them afterwards and really talk through what I was thinking about and and how things were going and then the last time I went actually was this somewhat sad story the last time I went um uh uh we were supposed to have dinner and he canceled because he was not feeling well um and that's the last I saw him saw him um so that's sad the one thing I will say is that he lost a bet uh so um to me okay yes um so every time our tradition was that every time we have dinner we'd have a bet and the loser would pay for dinner um and the last time uh the bet the BET was actually loaded against me I could tell you what the BET was so the vet was I said that Jennifer doudna and another sharpenter would win the Nobel Prize in either physiology medicine or chemistry but they would be the only two people they would be the only two and of course it's historic because it was the first time there was Nobel Prize was awarded to two women by themselves um Mercury won their Nobel Prize twice by herself but this was the first time that it was awarded two women by themselves Paul said that would be a third person whoever it was he said I'm not going to tell you this third person is but I bet it would be it would be a three-way split because you're allowed it's been three ways now the odds were loaded against me because of course you know three is easier than than two but I won uh that bet so somewhere he owes me a dinner and what was the lifetime score was Paul ahead uh no we were sort of 50 50. yeah okay um and the the BET was so it was it was very he was very formal about it and that was made it fun he would say a bed is not a bet until it's it's formalized and written so he would write me an email uh when I would go back to uh New York and I get an email in my inbox saying the the terms of the BET are the I mean I was a formal email from Hallberg they would say that the terms of the BET are the following you have you know said you've stated that X and I have stated why wouldn't it be your next book that's with Paul exactly it's like you know my conversations with Mori uh uh or whatever that book is called um um I'll I'll spare you all the other details but but somewhere he owes me a dinner so I'm gonna go collect well um speaking of uh wearing multiple hats um and maybe getting to your progression in your career learning to where the many hats that you do you uh graduated you got your PhD and then got your md and um here you are as a resident and fellow um and then you start thinking about this other um urge which is to get into writing so I maybe always even start with what you wrote um the project evidently vast began as a more modest Enterprise in the summer of 2003 having completed a residency in medicine uh in graduating cancer Immunology I began training in cancer medicine at the Dana-Farber Institute cancer center and Mass General Hospital in Boston I had initially envisioned writing a journal of that year A View From The Trenches of cancer treatment but that Quest soon grew into a larger exploratory Journey that carried me in the depths not only the science and medicine but of culture History Literature and politics into cancers past and into its future so um I'd like you to explain that Journey a little bit but I do want to explain to the audience one thing that when you're a resident and a fellow it is probably the most demanding time that people can remember in their lives it's like hard to find the time to make dinner or do your laundry and both of which I didn't do by the way that's how you got all of your time well anyway the the message of this this whole evening is don't do your laundry works for me um but yeah tell us about that journey I mean how did you uh go from well let's do a journal to um the depth of this exploration and maybe the Turning Point well maybe this is there's a book here uh so so the journal became bigger and bigger um so that you know journaling is something that I do I encourage people to do I think it's a very meditative practice it's a kind of way to think through ideas um uh so I started one uh when I was uh not a resident right to be totally honest you cannot do anything when you're a resident I mean I was so physically exhausted um now the now their laws about um uh residency they weren't when I started and um I should tell you a little bit about Mass General um uh Mass General in particular was uh very memorable the culture of Mass General was the hospital would empty out at night and if you were the resident on call um the entire medicine service was yours you ran the medicine service um you being the first day intern um and uh and it was uh a master was very special it had a what was called a two plus one system which is you had two days off and one day on call so every third night you'd be on for the entire night then you'd be on for the entire day the following until you went home um and went to sleep then you'd come back the next morning for the the one and then you were on call again so um I didn't do anything then except for occasionally doing my laundry but um um uh in fact there's a moment where where I I you know I had lived in the house and there's a moment where um the uh the superintendent of where I lived came and said um he saw some he's looking at my look at my sink and he said out of pity I'll do your dishes for you um but anyway so resident but Fellowship was very different Fellowship was a very emotionally very different too because uh EUC cancer patient after cancer patients um day in day out um and the and that's when I did a lot of the journal and then the Turning Point really was um realizing when I talked to patients realizing that there was no road map so here we were dealing with it with a disease where you know you'd find something about cancer in the front pages of the New York Times every day and yet when you ask patients about their Journeys and what they were looking for there was no history there was no road map and it was a complete uh kind of bizarrely shocking so here is something again commonplace experience I mean everyone that you know I'm sure in this audience knows someone with cancer and there was no book and of course without having Ken Burns make the documentary no film about the history of this thing that was in the newspaper every day I mean imagine if this was true for any other aspect of common human life that you would not find a book about it um so can I maybe just follow up on that I mean maybe you can also explain the impact of this book and I don't mean in terms of winning Awards or honors or all that but the impact that you've seen this book carry to individuals with with cancer yeah it's been incredible I mean you know uh the the I don't think there's a day that goes by without someone from some part of the world writing to me um blindly um saying thank you for the book uh or you know thank you for you know my mother had it well she was I didn't not my mother but the person writing their mother you you found it useful when they had breast cancer being stopped on the street and say you know someone's recognizing and saying thank you for for writing the book it made my journey easier I could so it's um its impact was beyond that Beyond certainly beyond what I had imagined or expected um it's just um it resonates I'm I should tell you I'm writing an update now because I thought I'd do it in 10 in 10 years after but it's going to be the 15th year um after the books the book came out in 2010 the updated version will come out in 2014 or 15 depending on when I can actually finish it but 15 years have lost I think we need to know what's happened um and how it's changed so um but that said it's been you know important in so many ways and then um I guess my own realization of all of this was when my my agents who's been incredibly important literary influence in my life and been very important in sort of getting these books together Sarah talked want um the um I'll tell you two incidents um one is uh uh Sarah called me up about two months after the book was published the first run of this book by the way was 5 000 copies um it sold more than several million but um and so they printed 5000 copies and then um my agent called up my publisher and said 5000 is not going to cut it um and so my publicist my publisher who's also great literary influence I mean Nan Graham great publisher said well what do you think we should start with and my uh Sarah my agent uh absolutely shamelessly said she said um and I remember the word I was on the phone uh on a phone call with them um and she said um Nan Emperor is of the book yeah she said Emperor is a phenomenon um I want you to publish a hundred thousand copies of this book um first book by an unknown writer um and Nan said well we'll we'll set it for 50. um so that was the first run of of the emperor so I don't know if you have a first edition we should send you one but yeah please send me one yes I know um I was going to ask you about what you're doing next but I think you already answered that question but um why don't we go to this recent book um because that will also get into some of your science too but um it's a song of the cell and uh it says an exploration of medicine and the new human so that's a very provocative title uh but speaking of the treatment of cancer maybe you could just take the audience on a little journey of where cancer treatment was um and also a little bit about where you see it going uh with with cell with cell therapy and what the difference is between these kinds of treatments um and what what is exciting to you about cell engineering as a future for cancer treatment yes I mean the pillars of Cancer Treatments traditionally have been uh obviously surgery radiation um and then since the 1950s chemical therapies chemotherapy um then since the 1990s a new class of medicines called targeted therapies so these are also chemotherapies but rather than killing cells in discriminately a new class of medicines that are more discriminate in their killing of cells there's a Continuum between one and the other but um so targeted Therapies um and now moving on to um to new two or three new classes of of therapies um and that's what's gonna be at least part of this new uh new updated version um the first is many of you would recognize immunological therapies so immune therapies um and um it's been long recognized that cancers um can be treated by the your own immune system in various ways um there was a long tradition um somewhat misplaced in the 1900s of injecting toxins uh which would activate your immune system and there were some responses to cancer and since then we've learned that in fact you can use your immune system particularly T cells to kill cancer cells um so that's um one area the second which is also something that our lab or my lab along with Lou Cantley and others have have worked on is becoming a therapy is to use diet um so we think of diet as uh completely ancillary um in cancer Therapeutics we are slowly realizing that it's actually potentially an independent arm that one can manipulate just like one can manipulate um other kinds of therapy including chemotherapy um and so that's led to a whole series of Investigations about the possibility of using a diet to modulate responses to cancer cells you can go into that in Greater detail but the one that you're curious about is cellular therapy cellular engineering um so um several people realized along with me that you can engineer cells particularly immune cells and stem cells um and potentially combinations of immune cells and stem cells to treat cancers um you can take an in an immune cell out of the out of out of the body a T cell for instance and using genetic engineering you can weaponize that T Cell to kill cancer cells you can take myeloid cells another ring of the immune system out of the body weaponize it to kill cancer cells um and so and you can combine it with stem cell therapies um in various clever ways so that you can now attack cancers so that would be cellular therapy and I would say my laboratory spends most of its time on this third wing although we have a deep interest in dietary Therapies but it's most of the time on these cellular therapies using genetically modified immune cells of different kinds to direct them against cancer yeah so you um when you read this book one of the entry points is um uh a young girl Emily who was uh the first person that was treated with this weaponized first child the child from somebody else um and uh you know remarkable response um alive and well and cured today um yeah she was three when she was seven she's 18 now yeah um well one of the challenges with this uh what's called car T therapy which is this weaponized therapy is that um first of all it's expensive it's largely a therapy I would say in the first world and um I'd like to hear a little bit about your effort to kind of democratize like Leading Edge medicine around the world so uh particularly uh you recently co-founded a company called immuneal which is an interesting name maybe you could tell the audience about that sure but um it's uh a company in India to try to bring this new exciting car T therapy um to the Indian population so and you use the word which I think is a really interesting word uh Venture philanthropy so maybe you could just describe a little about your motivation uh what this company is doing and uh where it is right now sure um so uh uh you know most of my projects uh like writing 500 pages books books on cancer um start as somewhat mad dreams um and uh the matter the better in some ways um so I was sitting next to this the all true stories I was sitting next to um India's uh probably India's most successful bio uh biologic manufacturer kirinshaw um who started off as basically in Brewery because she couldn't get a job um she came back trained as in Brewing yeast Brewing couldn't get a job and she said and they said there's no job for a woman in East Brewing so she said well if you can Brew yeast I can make yeast make proteins and she founded biocon one of the most successful uh the single most successful actually Indian biotechnology company um uh so I was sitting at dinner next to Kiran uh about four years ago just before the pandemic and I said Karen you know um we've got 1.3 billion people in in the country this we were sitting in Boston I said okay we've got 1.3 billion people in the country they're about six countries that have T-cell therapies car key therapies why can't we make them in India and she said um and I said in particular I said you know you woke up and one morning not literally woke up at morning and decided to make uh biologics like herceptin in India why can't we make T Cell therapies we can send Rockets to the Moon should be able to make T Cell therapies and she said you're right we should be able to make physical therapies and so why don't we just do that um so I said fine if you're up for it I'm up for it um so that's how we found how we found it immune immunil is uh named after immune and Neil Neil means Indigo and indigo of course was the basis of the name India um so we called the company immuneal and um uh and then we said well we've got to raise some money to do this um and so that's when this idea of venture philanthropy came about which is that we approached people and said listen this is not going to be a you know this is not going to be Facebook um and um it's not gonna be Google um we will make you money but it's not going to be like 500 times your money but on the other hand you'll get the satisfaction I hope of bringing a completely new therapy and saving the life of a child with relapsed uh leukemia who would otherwise be dead um and to be honest and just some my surprise and desiredly people said Yes actually you know that's a nice thing to do um um we'll we'll put in your the seed money to do this so anyway that's how I mean you got funded and started I put my contribution in kind because I took some of the licenses that I had created in my laboratory and you know that we've been uh fortunate enough to make some discoveries and I said I'll put my those licenses into the company so I licensed out um some of the molecules therapies that we were developing in the lab um and that's how Emilio got started um and uh uh we started off in Bangalore uh which is the tech Hub of India um and it's it's an astonishing story then kovid hits um and we created a covet bubble um because we wanted to finish this facility now if you imagine this a little bit this is a facility where um it's you have to wear a hazmat suit to get in because one contaminated test tube or one contaminated um tissue culture means that the patient won't get their T cells uh means that that the kid will die the child will die so the stakes are enormous and it's an incredible thing that that through covid these um these men and women who put the facility together basically really lived in a bubble didn't visit their families lived in the bubble until the facility was completed it was inspected by the Indian FDA cleared by the Indian FDA those one night when a pipe exploded I remember staying up all night and trying to figure out what to do but thankfully it was contained and so forth but uh so um it was completed and uh we've just finished our 24 patient study yeah which is uh extremely extremely positive extremely fast under incredible circumstances and um you know in India and really making a difference in people's lives there uh so I I find it an incredibly inspiring like story of what's possible but let me get um because I want to get to the last topic and then open up questions to the audience uh and you know this gets to explaining signs to the public uh you are really at the front line I would say of science communication a lot of people look to you you know for as a spokesperson I would say we need more spokespeople in science but what is our our current epic right now and and why is there this eroding trust in science um and you know what are your thoughts on on how we can um you know change the direction where where science and Society are going right now so it's an important question I'm not sure I can I don't I don't have a magic formula I think um the magic formula is persistence um and resilience um I think um as you very well know we it's really a a pandemic of of miscommunication um LED unfortunately by social media um which didn't exist in the before and has now created a channel an equal channel of misinformation I mean once misinformation becomes uh uh equivalent in terms of dispersal to information you lost the battle already um and that's the battery we're losing every day there's no mechanism by which you can identify one from the other um and so it that's an incredible battle um so how do you win that I don't have as I said I don't have a magic formula you win the battle by persistence resilience and sticking to what you know and sticking to what you can do um I mean to some extent I think scientists sewed their own um gravestones or that's a mixed metaphor but uh um but nonetheless uh uh I think the the uh there was a lapse in in judgment um uh in many ways there was a over promise and under delivery was one of them um uh the suspicion grew even more deeply because um we completely failed to communicate that science is an uncertain um topic that uncertainty is built into science and often what I try to explain to people is that there's a difference between factual uncertainty and methodological uncertainty it's a very very important idea to convey uh factual uncertainty is to say I don't know the result I don't know the answer methodological uncertainty is to say our certainty is to say I don't know the answer but I know how to get to the answer I know there's a as a method by which or a standard or a set of proofs by which I can get to the answer those are different things science has a lot of factual uncertainty many people in this audience who are scientists when you ask them a question will say I don't know but if you ask them how would you know um what would be the criteria of proof um most people in this audience or scientists would say that I I know the answer to that question um so what happened during the covet pandemic is that people mixed up those two things they mixed up what I would call factual uncertainty which was rampant because we didn't know you know what was the direction of the movement what kind of virus was this was this it rosalized what was the effect of the vaccine well decided those are factual uncertainties um they're also a different kind of uncertainty which is a methodological uncertainty what is the standard of proof that is required to call something effective or ineffective actually we know that we know that there are studies we know what how those study what those studies look like what are the what is the nature of that study how is how that is to be accomplished most scientists even you know I would say a well-trained first-year uh postdoctoral researcher could tell you what are the standards of proof that are required um and one of the erosions that I've seen is the confusion between those two and so part of the way of climbing ourselves out of this pit is to divide those two things up and to say that in fact the methodological things that and the standard is of proof have actually been around since the 17th century and they haven't you know they didn't come yesterday they didn't come you know they've been advancing and moving along but they're not Johnny come ladies the factual uncertainties have also been around since the 1700s and often we don't know we don't know the answer but we know how to get to the answer we know the proofs so that would be one one formula um maybe I can even just follow up on that as the last question because I think you know you um you do a an excellent job describing that and the uncertainty of science as part of Science and the evolution of ideas and you have this for you you made this uh metaphor of sand in the eye and the other counterpart to that you can probably remember it but it was a really good idea I understand I understand yeah it was an interesting metaphor really for um um being what science is well like trying to Grapple at the Leading Edge of what we know and don't know and maybe you could describe that uh sure I mean in this book I describe two kinds of problems in science uh which I call sanding the eye versus eye in the sand problem so sand and the eye problems are problems in science where you just have no clue about directionality um and everything uh has to be changed the Paradigm shifts that are required so at a certain point of time if just to give you historical example a certain point of time when physicists were exploring the physical world um they suddenly came up to ascending the eye problem which is that uh they push to a frontier of Newtonian physics and began to see that you couldn't go any further that there was no path further in Newtonian physics because it was it there was a blur um like us Sandstorm um and an entirely new paradigm had to be the uncertainties were so deep and the inconsistencies were so deep that you had to create a new paradigm for for scientific exploration so that happens occasionally in science um I would maybe argue that um in the first phases of the code pandemic we had a sand in the eye problem it was a sandstorm of of uncertainty um the eye and the sand problem is a very different kind of problem in science uh that is when you have a very consistent set of phenomena everything fits it's a jigsaw puzzle that fits but there's one piece that won't fit um and that's an I understand problem it irritates you like a piece of sand in your eye and that is a kind of problem where you have to either make the jigsaw puzzle not fit and figure out that the musical puzzle is wrong um or you have to figure out whether the piece is wrong um and both of those could could be true but um I think in the late phases of the code pandemic and especially the phase that we're now we are sort of an eye in the sand problem which is questions like uh questions like long covered um is an eye in the scent problem which is to say you know things make sense but what the one thing that doesn't make sense is why it is that some people and particular people are having these syndromes that we can't explain um and there must be a methodological a systematic way to explain them I'm just giving you examples of books using setup and happy um but those are two broad distinctions that I that I make in this book um well we covered a lot I'd like to at least have like five six minutes of questions and then there's a reception and we can um uh continue the conversation in in the lobby but um there's also a badminton game and everyone's invited to the battery exactly some um there's a question over there and here and tell us who you are if you want to do it's nice too no yes yeah and then we may just take a couple quick questions can you mentioned that you're bipolar if I heard you correctly so how do you um in your perspective how do you feel that contributes to your likeness of being a writer and a scientist is do you see that as separation of personalities such as a perfect Confluence that develops Who You Are I hope I'm well controlled in medicines um it's hard to know because uh uh but um uh you know your psychiatric psychological State always contributes to um you're writing um I think regardless of whether it's whether you know you fall on the spectrum of the ill or the spectrum of the world but um the answer is I mean obviously um as many people with uh manic repressibilities Bible illness um can um utilize enormous bursts of energy um and it becomes actually uh uh quite a quite an engine if it if that engine goes off the rails then you have the the sad consequences of that but hopefully you can get yourself to stay on the rails um but I I I I do ex I do have extraordinary bursts of energy and I try to use them um um uh I recognize them when they happen um and my whole family knows them there are ways that I recognize them for instance when I'm in when I'm tipping over the edge I tend to repeat words so I'll I'll start talking faster and I'll say I I'll repeat repeat words um and those are tip-offs um but I could also at that in those times I can use I can pull six all-nighters um in a row um and so they can be I don't know I suppose useful in some ways but uh not particularly pleasant but useful in some ways so but it leaves a Mark um on on writing a course that called forms of mental States some of which tip into the pathological some of which are actually quite useful um did we have a question over here yes hi hello um my name is galilez and I'm here um at chanelia at the summer intern um with an interest in cancer and Immunology so my question is that you mentioned as a fellow you got to see a lot of like cancer patients throughout your time so did any of them in particular really touched you personally and um really made you think about your passion and future in cancer research I mean many of them I mean I would say all of them touch me personally um and influenced my writing there's uh uh the end of the book has a particular patience uh patient who um the problem is actually I only remember their real names I don't remember the names I gave them in the books so I'm trying to think of what I called her in the book but uh uh but anyway um uh but uh virtually all of them did and um many of them are in this school Carla uh Carla is one of them um Jermaine and Jermaine is another one they might actually know their real name so that's why they I I forget what names I gave them in the book because I had to think of some name and I thought of the names uh but nonetheless um uh so so many of them obviously have influenced uh how I write and what I write and they come up as characters in other books as well uh in the subsequent books as well so um so absolutely you know virtually all of them I have very very distinct memories of um and they often come up um as as characters in in other books in subsequent books as well okay uh this will be the last question okay yes okay um good evening my name is Emmanuel um I'm also a summer intern here at Genelia I just finished my freshman year at College um and my question is more so in regards to your time management it's always interesting to me how um such influential people can manage so much uh with the same amount of time that all humans are given um and I aspired to go along the MD PhD track as well um so I was wondering if you had like any specific tips or advice that you would give to to aspiring students like me who really want to figure out the best way to maximize the given time in the day well unfortunately I don't have great tips because I'm not I would say that I'm you know of course I'm very efficient in managing my time I I'm not sure I have great tips about time management that makes sense so I can give you nonsensical ways of managing your time but um I'm not sure that particularly helpful because how do you manage your time nonsensically so um so I manage my time by doing everything um at the same time all at once um and often many things very badly uh this is not recommended for your summer uh internship well that's why I said don't go this is the advice you shouldn't be listening to but um I mean there are people who they're different kinds of people in the world the people who are very focused and can accomplish focused tasks um and they're also people who can do you know multitask at the same obviously at the same time definitionally multitask um so I do some kind of a kind of chaotic I'm the I'm masterful that chaotic multitasking um uh so I will in a given moment you know try to finish a chapter of a book go to the laboratory speak with a laboratory researcher for 10 minutes come back and do two phone calls then you know manage another piece of my variously collapsing forms of life and um and um and try to do fit everything at the same time I have profoundly terrible work-life balance um leaning towards work um but thankfully so does my wife so we have two it's a foliage a mutual Madness so um that's how we manage our life and our children have sort of um thankfully fallen into that same thing uh so we are all I can say is that your your your your Sunday sound uh fantastic according to that article I'd love to spend an entire Sunday day with you and however you manage to do what you do uh I am in deep admiration and um I think from this conversation I think so is our audience so um uh I will thanks it in one second I do want to say that we have a few Genelia ambassadors if you could please stand up um were you in the audience oh okay well they have T-shirts that say geniliana they're here to interact with our guests from uh the community so you can also find out a little bit more about what is happening at Genelia so if you see someone that Julia t-shirt they're there to talk to you so please come up to them um and Sid this was an incredible evening a memorable evening and um we all thank you very much from our heart absolutely thank you thank you foreign thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: tjs-BQ4gCXQ (https://youtu.be/tjs-BQ4gCXQ) ===

>>> STARTING ON MARCH 30, PSHES
AND WGBY WILL BRING YOU THE FIRST EPISODE OF CANCER, THE
EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES, THE LATEST PRODUCTION FROM THE TEAM
OF DOCUMENTARY FILM-MAKERS HEADED BY KEN BURNS AND BASED ON
THE BOOK, THE EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES, A BIOGRAPHY OF CANCER
WRITTEN BY DR. SIDDHARTHA
MUKHERJEE. A COUPLE YEARS BACK THE DOCTOR
WAS IN WESTERN MASSACHUSETTS TO ADDRESS THE SPRINGFIELD PUBLIC
FORUM, AND WE TAPED AN INTERVIEW WITH HIM AT THE SPRINGFIELD
MARRIOTT HOTEL. NOW, AS WE PREPARE FOR THE KEN
BURNS' DOCUMENTARY, WE WANT TO BRING YOU THIS PRESENTATION OF
OUR TALK WITH DR. SIDDHARTHA
MUKHERJEE ABOUT THE EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES. >> THE PATIENTS WOULD ASK ME
OVER AND OVER AGAIN, WHERE ARE WE IN THE WAR ON CANCER? HOW DID WE GET HERE AND WHAT
HAPPENS NEXT? SO THE BOOK IS AN TEAM TO
DEMYSTIFY CANCER, TO EXPLAIN WHERE WE ARE AND WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT, AND LOOK AT THE FUTURE. IT WAS DRIVEN BY THESE
QUESTIONS, BY A PATIENT'S QUESTION, WHICH IS, YOU KNOW, TO
UNDERSTAND THE ESSENCE OF WHAT CANCER IS AND HOW WE GOT HERE
AND WHAT HAPPENS NEXT. >> I AM FASCINATED BY THE TITLE
YOU AND YOUR PUBLISHER'S CHOSE, THE EMPEROR OF ALL MALADIES, A
BIOGRAPHY, NOT A HISTORY BUT A BIOGRAPHY OF CANCER, AND YOU DO
TREAT CANCER VERY MUCH AS IF IT WERE A PERSON. >> WELL, I WAS CAREFUL NOT TO
OVERPERSONIFY CANCER. OBVIOUSLY, CANCER IS NOT ONE
DISEASE BUT MANY DISEASES. I WAS CAREFUL NOT TO
OVERPERSONIFY IT, BUT SUBTITLED BIOGRAPHY CAME QUITE LATE IN THE
WRIGHT OF THE BOOK, AND REALLY, REFERS TO THE IDEA, WHICH I
THINK IS A CENTRAL IDEA IN THE BOOK, THE IDEA OF DRAWING A
PORTRAIT OVER TIME. YOU LOOK AT CANCER IN 1750, IN
1850, AND IN 1950, AND IN 2050, AND HOW DOES THAT PORTRAIT
CHANGE? HOW DOES IT EVOLVE? SO, IN THAT SENSE, YOU KNOW,
THERE IS THIS BIOGRAPHICAL ELEMENT TO IT INCH YOU ARE
DESCRIBING THE EVOLUTION OF THE SAME IDEA IN A HUMAN BEING, THE
SAME HUMAN BEING, BUT IN THE CASE OF ILLNESS, IT'S A CULTURAL
IDEA, BIOLOGICAL IDEA, AND YOU ARE MOVING IT THROUGH TIME,
HENCE THE TITLE, BIOGRAPHY OF CANCER. >> YOU CITE THE FIRST KNOWN
WRITTEN REFERENCE FROM ABOUT, I BELIEVE, 4,000, 500 YEARS AGO,
AN EGYPTIAN REFERENCE TO CANCER. FASCINATING THAT YOU WERE ABLE
TO FIND THAT AND MAKE SOMETHING OF IT. >> WELL, WE DON'T -- THE WORD,
CANCER, DOESN'T EXIST IN 2,500, B.C., BUT THE CASE DESCRIPTION
IS SIMILAR TO WHAT WE MIGHT CONSIDER A CONTEMPORARY CASE OF
BREAST CANCER. THERE ARE MANY MYSTERIES. THIS IS A CRUMBLING, YELLOW PART
THAT WAS REDESCRIBED IN 1500, B.C., IT'S AN ANCIENT DOCUMENT. WE DON'T KNOW IF IT'S CANCER,
BUT IT SOUNDS A LOT LIKE CANCER, PARTICULARLY BREAST CANCER. >> I BELIEVE YOU SPENT ABOUT TEN
YEARS FROM START TO FINISH -- >> SEVEN YEARS. >> SEVEN YEARS, EXCUSE ME, ON
THIS BOOK. WHAT AN AMAZING AMOUNT OF TIME. YOU IMMERSED YOURSELF IN IT,
TELL ME ABOUT THE RESEARCH, THE RESEARCH CLEARLY WAS
INTERNATIONAL AND IN GREAT DEPTH. >> YOU KNOW, THE -- WHAT GOES
INTO THE BOOK OR WHAT WENT INTO THE BOOK IS VERY DIVERSE. THEY RANGE FROM PERSONAL
ONE-ON-ONE INTERVIEWS WITH SCIENTISTS BUT ALSO PATIENTS ALL
THE WAY TO, ACTUALLY, VISITING A SITE TO LOOKING UP TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF PAPERS, SCIENTIFIC PAPERS ON CANCER, AND LOOKING UP
LITERATURE, WRITINGS, PATIENT WRITINGS, SO A HUGE, DIFFERENT
VARIETY OF SOURCES, BUT THE MOST IMPORTANT PIECE OF ALL OF THIS
IS THAT I HAD TO DISCOVER THE HISTORY MYSELF, AND BY THAT, I
MEAN THAT I COULDN'T TAKE A SECOND PERSON'S ACCOUNT OF IT,
IF IT MEANT, FOR INSTANCE, I WOULD TRAVEL TO CERTAIN
LOCATIONS TO EXPERIENCE THE LOCATIONS MYSELF, TO, IN ORDER
TO CONSTRUCT THE STORY, AND THAT EXPERIENCE, I THINK, WAS WHAT
ULTIMATELY SORT OF BROUGHT THIS BOOK TOGETHER. >> THERE IS A LOT OF
MASSACHUSETTS IN THE BOOK. YOU PROFILE ONE PATIENT THAT YOU
BECAME CLOSE TO, AND THE STORY OF SIDNEY FARBER, WHO YOU CALLED
THE FATHER OF MODERN CHEMOTHERAPY. YOU TELL HIS UNUSUAL STORY OF
HOW HE WORKED. >> ABSOLUTELY. HE WAS A PATHOLOGIST, AND
USUALLY, PATHOLOGISTS DON'T TREAT PATIENTS. THEY DIAGNOSED THE DISEASES. THEY LOOK INTO THE MICROSCOPES
AND TISSUES, AND CELLS, BUT SIDNEY WAS MORE THAN A
PATHOLOGIST WORKING IN BOSTON IN THE 1950s. HE BEGAN TO WONDER WHETHER HE
COULD TREAT A PARTICULARLY FATAL VERSION OF CANCER CALLED ACUTE
BLASTO LEUKEMIA, AND HE WAS, IN ORDER TO DO SO BEGAN TO USE
CHEMICALS TO TREAT CANCER, AND IS CONSIDERED ONE OF THE FATHERS
OF MODERN CHEMOTHERAPY. EVEN MORE THAN THAT, MORE THAN
JUST INVENTING CHEMOTHERAPY OR HELPING TO INVENT CHEMOTHERAPY
WITH THE HELP OF OTHER PEOPLE, FARBER ALSO LAUNCHED THE WAR ON
CANCER IN COLLABORATION WITH MARY NOD, AND
MARY [INAUDIBLE]. AND HOW DOES HE TRANSFORM HIS
OWN LIFE FROM BEING A SCIENTIST IN A LABORATORY TO THIS PUBLIC
FIGURE, THIS LOBBYIST, THIS ADVOCATE FOR CANCER RESEARCH
NATIONALLY AND INTERNATIONALLY? THAT'S THE STORY THAT IS THE
CENTRAL STORY IN THE BOOK. >> IN WHAT I FOUND VERY
INTERESTING, TOWARDS THE END OF THE BOOK, YOU TAKE ONE PRESUMED
CANCER PATIENT, THE QUEEN OF PERSIA, WHO APPARENTLY HAD
BREAST CANCER, I DON'T THINK IT'S QUITE CERTAIN, 500, B.C.,
AND YOU BRING HER THROUGH THE AGES. WHAT WOULD HAVE HAPPENED IF SHE
HAD LIVED EARLIER AND UP THROUGH THE CENTURIES? VERY INTERESTING, WHAT LED YOU
TO DO THAT? >> WELL, I HAD WRITTEN THE BOOK,
HAD ALMOST FINISHED THE BOOK AND WAS LOOKING FOR A SUMMARY. HOW DOES ONE SUMMARIZE THIS
SWATH OF HISTORY? AND IT SEEMS TO ME THAT ONE OF
THE BEST WAYS TO DO WHAT PHYSICIANS DO, IS TO FOCUS ON A
SINGLE CASE, AND IN THIS CASE, IT WAS NOT A SINGLE CASE. NO ONE LIVES FOR 4,000 YEARS IN
ORDER TO SUMMARIZE THE AMAZING DEVELOPMENTS THAT HAPPENED IN
BREAST CANCER, SO WHAT I DID IN THE END OF THE BOOK WAS TO
PERFORM AN EXPERIMENT. FIZZ FIRSTS DOPHYSICISTS DO THI,
WHERE THEY IMAGINE AN EXPERIMENT AND SORT OF WALK YOU THROUGH IN
TIME, AND SO I IMAGINED HER AS A KIND OF EXPERIMENT. I SAID WELL, IF YOU TAKE THE
SAME WOMAN, AND YOU GIVE HER BREAST CANCER IN 500, B.C., OR
IN, YOU KNOW, 500, A.D., OR IN 1,500A.D. AND SO FORTH AND WALK
HER THROUGH TIME, AND ASK THE QUESTION EVERY CENTURY, FIVE
SENT, CENTURIES, ASK HER, WHAT HAPPENS
TO THE SAME WOMAN, AND IF YOU DO THIS EXERCISE, A MENTAL
EXERCISE, ALL OF A SUDDEN YOU REALIZE THE CHANGES HAVE BEEN
ENORMOUS. WHAT SEEMED LIKE SMALL LITTLE
CHANGES, BEGAN TO ADD UP AND CHANGE, YOU KNOW, AT THE POINT
I'M AT IN THE BOOK, IF SHE WAS DIAGNOSED AT 47, IN 500, B.C.,
MAY HAVE HAD SOME KIND OF CRUDE SURGERY. MAY NOT HAVE HAD SURGERY, AND
SHE WOULD HAVE DIED OF BREAST CANCER. IN 2011, THAT WHOLE SPECTRUM IS
TRANSFORMED, SHE HAS SURGERY, RADIATION, CHEMOTHERAPY,
TARGETED THERAPY, ALL THESE THINGS, CHILDREN ARE SCREENED. HER DAUGHTERS ARE SCREENDZ, AND
MAYBE PROTECTED FROM HAVING BREAST CANCER EVER IN THEIR
LIFETIME. WHAT A TRANSFORMATION IN JUST
THAT ILLNESS, BREAST CANCER, ACROSS THE SPAN OF 2,000 YEARS. >> THERE ARE, AS YOU POINT OUT,
SO MANY DIFFERENT KINDS OF CANCER, SO MANY WAYS IT CAN
MUTATE AND BECOME IMMUNE TO TREATMENTS AND DEFY TREATMENT. CAN YOU EVEN IMAGINE -- I'M
SAYING A PATIENT REALLY LED YOU TO THE BOOK, BUT A TIME WHEN A
CURE WOULD REALLY BE FOUND FOR ALL CANCERS, OR WILL IT BE MORE
OF A TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF THE DISEASE? >> I AM PRETTY CONFIDENT IT WILL
BE A TREATMENT AND MANAGEMENT SITUATION FOR CANCER. FIRST, I DOUBT THAT WE WILL EVER
FIND A CURE FOR ALL CANCERS. THIS WAS AN IDEA VERY POPULAR IN
THE 1970s. IT WAS CALLED A PENICILLIN FOR
CANCER. JUST LIKE PENICILLIN CURES MANY
FORMS OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES. PEOPLE THOUGHT YOU COULD, YOU
KNOW, USE A SIMILAR KIND OF MAGICAL REAGENT, MAGIC BULL
DENTIST ALL CANCERS. I STRONGLY DOUBTED THAT WILL
HAPPEN. I SUSPECT THAT WE WILL BITE AWAY
AT THIS PROBLEM PIECE BY PIECE. BREAST CANCER WILL BE TREATED
WITH DIFFERENT MEDICINES. BRAIN CANCERS WITH A DIFFERENT
SERIES OF MEDICINES, AND SURGERY, RADIATION AND
CHEMOTHERAPY, ALL COMBINED TOGETHER, AND IN MANY CASES WE
WILL NEVER BE ABLE TO CURE THE CANCER ALL-TOGETHER, BUT IT WILL
BE TO TRANSFORM THE CANCER INTO A CHRONIC DISEASE. NOW, LOOK AT DIABETES, IT'S A
GREAT EXAMPLE. BEFORE THE DISCOVERY OF INSULIN,
THE MEDICINE WE USE PRIMARILY TO TREAT DIABETES, ALTHOUGH THERE
ARE OTHER MEDICINES, DIABETES WAS OFTEN A FATAL DISEASE. NOW, WE HAVE THOUSANDS, HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF MEN AND WOMEN LIVING WITH DIABETES BUT NOT
DYING OF DIABETES BUT LIVING WITH DIABETES. LOOK AT THE CASE OF CHRONIC
HEART DISEASE. SO, THERE ARE MANY EXAMPLES IN
WHICH THE CONVERSION OF AN ILLNESS FROM ACUTE AND LETHAL TO
CHRONIC AND NON LETHAL HAVE BEEN VERY IMPORTANT, JUST AS
IMPORTANT AS CURING THEM OUTRIGHT. >> DR. SIDDHARTHA MUKHERJEE,
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME, SIR. >> MY PLEASURE. THANK YOU VERY MUCH.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: vLH7e724TjA (https://youtu.be/vLH7e724TjA) ===

[Applause] My book is called the emperor of all malades and this and it's a history of cancer and the first question that people ask me is why I wrote the book and I was an onc I am an oncologist I treat cancer patients and I spend most of my life as a researcher. I'm a stem cell scientist. Um, and then I was in training in cancer medicine in Boston when a patient of mine who had an aggressive variant of abdominal cancer and she had responded and relapsed and responded and relapsed. Um, and then she at one point of time she stopped and she said, "Sid, I'm willing to go on with trials and drugs and therapies, but before I do that, I need to know what it is that I'm fighting." And it was a very humbling and a moving moment for me because I realized that not only could I not answer that question as an oncologist, I couldn't point her to a single book or a resource that would answer the question in the fullest sense possible. What it was, what was it that she was fighting? How old was it? Since when has it begun to envelop our lives in the way it does today? Where are we going? What happens next? And and how how did we get here? How do we get in this moment of time with cancer being what it is? And just just so that no one thinks for a second that this is an abstuse problem, I' I'd just like to point out some numbers. I mean, I won't go through all these figures, but just to let you know that there is no doubt statistically that cancer will envelop each and every one of our lives. And if you go to amazon.com or something, you will find 5,000 books about cancer. And for the most part, they're of the variety, oh, you know, eat celery and eat carrots and you'll cure colon cancer. And I began to find these books somewhat insulting actually. So I wrote this book really to answer the question and as I said to fill up a vacuum that existed in this history, in the history of cancer. Um there's a famous saying by uh Hillary who climbed Everest um and when he was asked well why did you climb Everest and he said as you very famously know because it was there and so this book doesn't have any pretensions of being the climb of Mount Everest but really I I wrote this book because it was not there and the fact that it was not there made it impossible for me not to write the book. The book was driven by that urgency the urgency that Andrew and others have felt when cancer envelops our lives. So I can't summarize the entire book. It's a 600page book. I wish you I hope you read it. But I'll tell you a little story about the book and through that story perhaps a story about how the book was written. And in the end I want to spend a few minutes maybe reading a single uh page from the book just to give you a sense of of how such a book is ever written. So my story begins um with the main character in this book Sydney Farber. Um, some of you might have been to Boston, went to the Dana Farber Cancer Institute and wondered who Dana Farber was. There is no Dana Farber. It was Charles Dana and Sydney Farber, two separate individuals. Um, Sydney Farber was a pathologist and uh, he uh, had a tiny basement laboratory at the bottom of Children's Hospital, a freezing uh, about 20T x 14t space uh, full of the smell of formula. And I've been inside that space. it's virtually unlivable. And um he was a pathologist so he essentially only saw the bodies of children. Children would be wheeled down after they were dead into this freezing basement and then he would perform autopsies. But then Sydney Farber had a hunger and it was that hunger actually which drew to to drew him me to him when I first started this book. He began to have this hunger about treating patients. And remember this is 1947 and acute leukemia in children. Acute lymphablastic leukemia was not just a virtually incurable form of cancer. It was a lethal form of cancer in its in its speed. Children would be diagnosed on Monday and would be dead by Friday and two four six year old children. And Farber became very interested in acute lymphablastic leukemia for a single reason and that was that of all the very many forms of cancer it had one advantage and that was that it could be measured and science always begins with measurement and because you could draw blood from a child you could figure out this is the age before cat scans this is before MRI so you can't quantify the growth or the death of an internal tumor but you can quantify the growth growth and death of a blood tumor because you can draw a drop of blood and you can look at it as a pathologist would under microscope. So Farber became obsessed with lymphablastic leukemia and he had a very important clue and that clue came from a very interesting lady Lucy Wills a little bit forgotten in history uh an English hematologist who became interested in finding out uh the cause of various forms of anemia. uh interesting lady, eccentric um she um went to India to investigate a particular form of anemia which no one had seen before or no one had really understood before and this anemia was predominantly present in pregnant women who were malnourished. So she was very interested in why pregnant women who were malnourished they lived in a fac you know these the factory workers had this very peculiar form of anemia and here this is a little note from her um again you see her writing anemia uh pregnancy and then she made a very important discovery she saw that if you fed these women Marmite Marmite she fed these women Marmite the anemia would recover so she became interested in this idea that marmite must have some hidden substance which was responsible for the recovery of the anemia and she didn't eventually figure it out but very soon chemists had broken Marmite down into its various components and of course that substance turned out to be folic acid folate so Wills essentially figured out that deficiencies of folic acid which is a vitamin can cause can block the growth of normal blood and Farber who knew of Will's work began to wonder could an antifolic acid drug block the growth of drug of of a blood cancer. And so Farber had a friend u another uh interesting character who we talk about in the book. He was an Indian chemist lived alone in Boston who had begun to manufacture the series of antifolates. A series of accidents had allowed him to manufacture these antifolates and he began to administer two and four and six year old kids with acute lymphablastic leukemia with antifolates. these antifolates that yellow had yellow subber was the name of the chemist had made. I'm going to tell you a story about how this book is or how a book like this is written because it's the story about the discovery of the first patient who got these antifolates. Um, I became obsessed with finding the child, the first child who got antifolds and had a remission because every time I would feel the pulse of this book, you know, at 600 pages, every time I'd feel the pulse of this book begin to drop, the my instinct was always to find the patient. Find the patients and their stories will finish the story of the book for you. So, I began to be obsessed with finding the patient who had and I knew only the following piece of information. I knew that his name was RS and that he was 2 and a half years old, lived in Boston and nothing else in 1948 and had died after one or three months, one to three months of remission. So I began to post um on various list serves, you know, if you had I knew you had a twin, if you had a twin with leukemia in 1948, please write to me, you know, I began to post in various settings. Nothing months, nothing. So I got very disheartened and I said um I I took a vacation. I went back to India to my parents house and um someone said to me, "Oh, you know the chemist who had synthesized the folates Yala Subarrow had a single biographer u the biographer lives about four blocks from my house in Delhi." So said I said why not I'll go meet the biographer. So, so I walk over four blocks from Delhi, a thousand miles away from Boston and the biographer tells me, "Oh, you know, in 1950, um, I went to uh the Sydney Farber Cancer Hospital, and I have a roster of all the patients who were treated with leukemia." So, so here here I was, as I said, a thousand miles away and I said, "Can I see that roster?" And, and there it was, Robert Sandler. and he said, "Oh, you know, there was an article about Robert Sandler in the Boston Sunday Herald of 1948." Um, and I said, "Uh, show me the article." And he said, "Oh, you have to go find it." So, I ran back. I mean, actually, I really flew back to Boston, but I could have run back to Boston and I went to the library, uh, which was became my haven while I was writing this book, and I found in a few minutes that I was staring at Robert Sandler's face. And there there's Robert Sandler. Um, and um, and using his name, I could then go back to the directory of uh, the Boston uh, directory and find the name of his parents and because I knew that the the child was the child of a ship worker and in about 20 minutes from now, I was back where I had started, but I was in the house of Robert Sandler. So, I'm just telling you that story because that story became metaphorical for me about how a book like this is written. Um Farber uh was a scientist as I said he was in the laboratory but then he made a very critical ally and that was Mary Lazer. Here's Mary Lazer, a legendary socialite um a person who uh could have had so many connections that u she basically knew everyone in this room by their first name. She uh she was uh glamorous. She was independent. She was an entrepreneur, very unusual for her time, independently wealthy because she had started her own entrepreneurial ventures. And you know, this is Mary Lasker and you might think for a second that she's being photographed at the Museum of Modern Art, but make no mistake that Monae probably belongs to her. So, so um so there she is, Mary Lasker. Mary Laskan Farber teamed up and she and Farber began to put pressure on the nation, particularly on Nixon. And this advertisement appeared in 1969. And this really marks the beginning of the war on cancer. And so Mr. Nixon, you can cure cancer. And there's a subtext there which says, wouldn't it be very nice to cure cancer? Cure cancer by America's 200th birthday. So that birthday, as you know, has gone and passed. And where are we today? Now before we go on, let me spend one second reminding you that this is the 1950s and 1960s. America is about to land a man on the moon. Um the Manhattan project which is a long inheritance has been phenomenally successful. So imagine the hubris of this minute of this moment. Um here are Farber and Mary Alaska who want to cure cancer by America's 200th birthday. And as someone said it to me that is almost like landing a rocket on the moon without knowing Newton's laws. But there they were and we have to be thankful to them for it. Uh what happens next is that there was an enormous expansion in the budget of the National Cancer Institute and we see this rising up from the 1970 onward. That arrow marks the uh that arrow marks the moment that the uh war on cancer was launched and the question you might ask yourself is well what happened and the answer is for a long time not very much happened. This is this next slide shows the uh cancer related deaths if uh divided in various age ranges between 1955 and 2004. And the first thing that you see is that between 1970 odd to 1980 give or take a few years the death rate was static for most age groups and if anything the death rate was rising but then things started turning around and in the last part of the book I talk about what happens next. And one of the things that's happened next is visible in this slide. So this is a a slide that plots the total cancer mortality in in the US over several decades bringing us actually right up to 2006 in this case divided into men and women. And first thing you notice of course is the cancer rates are the cancer deaths are rising. This is largely because of the aging population overall and because the population is increasing. So this is a natural rise. But what's very gratifying of course is that you find that about 1990s 2000s you see this plateauing effect. Now importantly that plateauing effect hasn't turned around and one of the great challenges of our generation is to turn that plateau of cancer around. Now h how are we going to do this? Uh I don't know but there has been an explosion in understanding in the understanding of the cancer cell. So if you return back to my original analogy now we finally know Newton's laws. Now that doesn't mean that we can land a rocket on the moon but the knowledge of even the glimpse of Newton's laws makes a huge difference. This is a slide that I borrowed from Bert Voggelstein very important cancer researcher which talks about the mutations in the cancer genome. This is called the landscape of the cancer genome. I'd like us to get very familiar with this landscape because this is going to haunt us in our lives. So here's here's a way that Rogelstein depicts it. He's basically put every gene on the sheet of paper and he's marked out for a given individual cancer. He's marked out every mutation in a white dot and in these peaks and the red peaks and mountains are those white dots across a 100 or 200 odd samples from the same cancer. And what we learned from this slide? We learned something very important. Number one, we learned that there are there is an overlap for a single cancer between one dot and the peak, which means that in a single form of in a single cancer in a single colurectal cancer, there is an overlap between its mutation and the most common mutations across a 100 samples. But we also learned something very troubling and that is if you look there are many white dots that do not correspond to peaks and that means every single colurectal cancer this is not even I'm not talking across different cancers every single colurectal cancer therefore contains a heterogeneity of mutations and again I point this out using some examples right here. So should we be dejected and stop? No, because it turns out that some mutations in cancers are more important than others. And some mutations, if you target them with the appropriate kind of drug, you can get uh an amazing clinical response. And again, I was obsessed in this book at finding the first patients. And so here is Barbara Bradfield. She actually sent me this picture. Barbara Bradfield is the longest survivor of her septin treatment. She is an iconic patient. She's someone that history will remember because she gave up her time and her potentially her life to enroll in the first trial of herception. She's still alive today. She had metastatic breast cancer. Um so in conclusion, what does this book tell us? This book tells us that we are in in this this battle for a very long time, but an enormous amount of resources are going to be deployed in order to battle this very elemental and magisterial illness. So I'm going to now turn and just read you uh the very last page of my book. Um and again uh as a reminder of what lies ahead perhaps. Uh this is the story of Germaine. I've changed the names and dates of the patients in this book uh to protect uh privacy. But this is the story of Germaine, a woman who had relapsed many many times uh with abdominal cancer. had an had an incredible response to a particular drug and had stretched out a relapse sorry response for about six and a half years and then finally relapsed again. Uh when I recall that final conversation with Germaine, embarrassingly enough the object seemed to stand out more vividly than the words. A hospital room with its sharp smell of disinfectant and hand soap. The steely unflattering overhead light. a wooden side table on wheels piled with pills, books, newspaper clippings, nail polish, jewelry, postcards. Her room wallpapered with pictures of her beautiful house in Montgomery and of her daughter holding some fruit picked from her garden. A standard issue plastic hospital picture filled with a bunch of sunflowers perched on a table by their side. Germaine, as I remember her, was sitting by the bed, one leg dangling casually down, wearing her usual eccentric and arresting combination of clothes and some large and unusual pieces of jewelry. Her hair was carefully arranged. She looked formal, frozen, and perfect, like a photograph of someone in the hospital waiting to die. She seemed content. She laughed. She joked. She made wearing a nasogastric tube seem effortless and somehow dignified. Only years later in writing this book could I finally put into words why that meeting left me so uneasy and humbled. Why the gestures in that room seemed larger than life. Why the object seemed like symbols. Why Germaine herself seemed like an actor playing a part. Nothing I realized was incidental. The characteristics of Germaine's personality that had once seemed spontaneous and impulsive were in fact calculated and almost reflexive responses to her illness. Her clothes were loose and vivid because they were decoys against the growing outline of the tumor in her abdomen. Her necklace was distractingly large so as to pull attention away from her cancer. Her room was topsyturvy with bobbles and pictures. The hospital flacked to the wall because without them it would devolve into the cold anonymity of any other room in any other hospital. She had dangled her leg at that precise posed angle because the tumor had invaded her spine and begun to paralyze her other leg, making it impossible to sit any other way. Her her casualness was studied. The jokes were rehearsed. Her illness had tried to humiliate her. It had made her anonymous and seemingly humorless. It had sentenced her to die in unsightly death in a freezing hospital room thousands of miles away from home. But she had responded with vengeance, moving always to be one step ahead, trying to outwit it. It was like watching someone locked in a chess game. Every time Germaine's disease moved, imposing yet another terrifying constraint on her, she made an equally assertive movement in turn. The illness acted, she reacted. It was a morbid hypnotic game, a game that had taken over her life. She dodged one blow only to be caught by the other. She too was like Carol's Red Queen, stuck peddling furiously just to keep in the same place. Germaine seemed that evening to have captured something essential about our struggle against cancer. That to keep keep pace with this malady, you need to keep inventing and reinventing, learning and unlearning strategies. Germaine fought cancer obsessively, cannilally, desperately, fiercely, madly, brilliantly, and zealously, as if channeling all the fierce inventive energy of generations of men and women who would who had fought cancer in the past and would fight it in the future. Her quest for a cure had taken her on a strange and limitless journey through internet blogs and teaching hospitals and chemotherapy and clinical trials halfway across the country through a landscape more desolate, desperate, and disquing than she had imagined. She had deployed every last morsel of her energy to the quest, mobilizing and remobilizing the last dregs of her courage, summoning her will and wit and imagination until that final evening she had stared into the vault of her resourcefulness and found it empty. In that haunted last night, hanging on to her life by no more than a tenuous thread, summoning all her strength and dignity as she wheeled herself to the privacy of her bathroom. It was as if she'd encapsulated the essence of a 4,000-year-old war. Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: vSDuvML9vaw (https://youtu.be/vSDuvML9vaw) ===

Hello and welcome to everyone
who has joined us online. I'm Ludmila Pollock, executive director of libraries and
archives at Cold Spring Harbor laboratory and the CSHL center for humanities and history of modern biology
which organizes today's event. The laboratory is a
nonprofit institution located on the North Shore of Long Island, New York in dates back to 1890 when it was founded as a Marine biology
station, research at the Lab has led to eight Nobel prices
in significant discoveries in genetics, molecular biology and medicine. The institution's research contributed
to our understanding of cancer, aALS, depression, and
autism among other diseases, and it produced the first effective
treatment for the devastating genetic disease, spinal muscular atrophy. Cold spring Harbor Laboratory is
now paying an important part in research effort to help
understanding COVID-19. We are delighted to gather virtually to bring these two accomplished
scientist and authors into conversation. Professor Siddhartha Mukherjee is a
cancer physician and researcher at Columbia University. His 2010
book, The Emperor of Maladies: A biography of cancer was awarded, the Pulitzer prize for
nonfiction today we will be discussing his more recent book,
The Gene: An Intimate History, which won international awards
and was recognized by the Washington Post and the
New York Times is one of the most influential books in 2016. The Gene was inspiration. The inspiration
for the new Ken Burns documentary of the same name. In conversation we see today
is Matthew Cobb, Professor in the school of biological sciences
at the University of Manchester. In addition to his research on
genetics and physiology of the sense and smell, Matthew has published
extensively on the history of genetics including his 2015 book Life's Greatest Secret and his latest book, The Idea of the Brain,:the past
and future of neuroscience and smell. He was one of the
screen experts in The Gene. My colleague Richard Sever is
a moderator for this event. Richard is a system director of the CSH press and executive director
for the journals CSH perspective and CSH protocols. Richard is the cofounder of the
critical resource known as bioRxiv and medRxiv that have allowed
thousands of scientists around the world to make their private
research available as quickly as possible. And obviously with free access. We are delighted to welcome Sid and Matthew for conversation. You can submit your questions
through the Q/A box at the bottom of the zoom screen
and then Richard will present the questions to Matthew and Sid after conversation. I am so grateful
to you, Sid and to you Matthew for joining us today.
Sid and Matthew, please! Thank you very much Mila.
Um, Sid, good to see you. So we haven't really,
we haven't met in the flesh, but we've had a few chats, uh, over over
zoom in the last a week preparing this, this meeting. I wonder if we
could start at the beginning, uh, with the title of your book. I read somewhere that there
are perhaps 20 definitions of a gene depending on the scientist
who's using the phrase, depending on what they're interested in. So I wonder if you could tell us
what you think a gene is and what it does and why there's this difficulty
that people have in coming up with a definition which might
appear to be quite a simple question. Uh, well, it's uh, my pleasure
to join you Matthew, um, uh, in this conversation. And thank you for
Cold Spring Harbor for hosting this. Um, it is, it is actually quite clear
that many people have different definitions of the word gene. People have tried to define this
word, understand this word. Um, I wanted to use in some ways
I wanted to use in the book every definition or cover
every definition. Um, a gene is a unit of heredity. Uh, a gene specifies, uh, or a trait. Um, uh, gene, uh, is uh, usually, uh, um, the code that carries the, uh, the, the code or the, um, uh, the material. Um, the instructions to
make a, a piece of RNA, which by itself can be
functional but more, more often gives rise to a protein
which carries out a function. A gene carries information
from parents to offspring. A gene is a piece of, uh, uh, DNA. Um, originally it was thought to
be a continuous piece of DNA. We know that that is no longer
true. Um, but it is a piece of DNA. A gene in a virus can be carried
as we know from COVID-19, from transcript, a gene
can be carried in RNA. Um, so it's really a piece of nucleic acid, which carries the
instructions to build an RNA, which in turn carries the instructions
to build a protein. So, um, it is like looking at the same
thing through multiple perspectives, multiple directions. No definition
is complete. No definition is, is absolute, but they all are,
but they're all correct. Um, and so I felt that we needed
to embrace all of them, um, and different aspects of the
book and the film emphasize or, or go into the idea. And it's
a historically evolving idea. Um, uh, the, the analogy that
I like to make is, um, uh, you know, the, the word atom means
different things to different people. Um, uh, an atom is a unit of, of matter. It is the constituent element
of a molecule. It is the, uh, indivisible piece of matter. But of course we know that the
atom itself is made of divisible, divisible pieces. Um, and so
much like the atom, the gene, the definition of the gene is
evolving. It will continue to evolve, but the fundamental piece of it, which is that it is a
unit of heredity, um, and that it is carried
across generations, uh, in the form of a nucleic acid remains, uh, remains basically unchanged. I think we can, we can leave the rest of it and the
niceties to the philosophers of science. Maybe they got plenty of
time to logic shop. Um, I was watching, uh, the comments on Twitter as people
watched the, in particular, the first episode of The
Gene, but both, both episodes, sorry, which you are
in, which, which I'm in, but that's not what I
was why I was watching and a number of people that I
saw in my timeline were very surprised to learn about the
way that in particular in America, uh, the history of genetics and the
history of eugenics that is of improving the human stock, uh, as they would have said at the
time was, was so intertwined. Um, and I thought that was a
very good part of the, uh, of the film and of your book because
your book deals with that as well. I wonder how surprised
you were. Well, I mean, can you remember when you first
realized this, where you taught it, uh, a university or a school back
in India? What, what was the, when did you find out about
that and what did you think? Well, you know, that goes back to the
process of writing the book and I, you know, we haven't, what's interesting is I haven't really
talked much about aside from this forum, talk much about the process of
writing the book. Um, it was both, both surprising and also a
kind of hidden aspect of, of American history. Um, we, the, the standard way that eugenics
is taught is as if it grew out of nothing. Um, you know, like
a ghost, uh, in Nazi Germany. Um, and in fact grew as, as a part or an organic
part of Nazi-ism and in, uh, and grew late perhaps in Nazi-ism. Um, but when you study the history
and when you look at the archives, you realize that that's
completely not true. That in fact the eugenics
movement has had and has, uh, three distinct phases.
Um, the first phase, I mean, first of all, maybe even
four distinct phases, I would say the first phase goes
back all the way to Plato and Aristotle and people who for
a long time wondered whether heredity could be manipulated. But of
course, they had no idea of genetics. They had no idea of the gene.
They didn't know the word gene. They didn't know the concept. I'm so far from it and Plato
writes about it very briefly. He thinks about an ideal race. He
thinks about it mathematically. Um, he thinks about mathematical ways of
reading people so that they would get the best lots of outcomes. So that's
the ancient history of eugenics. And then it mostly vanishes,
um, from, from, from, from, at least from philosophical writing. But then there are these
three contemporary phases
and we only know about the last of them because it's been popularly
taught. The first phase was in the UK, in England or in great Britain,
I would say, where, um, as, uh, geneticists began to understand
the relationship between genetics and selection. Um, people like, uh, Francis Galten, um, and others, uh, very, very luminary characters, um, uh, began to wonder whether they should
select for the best possible humans using what they would now call
positive eugenics, in other words, breed the best and make a
kind of a, a nation of elite. Mmm. There is a, you know,
there was a, there's a famous, there was a famous saying that, uh, you
know, that, that, that they would, that, that somehow or the other, by
breeding this national elite, they would work themselves out
of what was becoming very clear in great Britain and its colonies,
which is that somehow or the other, there was a fear of
racial degeneration, um, and that they would work themselves out
of racial degeneration by breeding a national elite, uh,
using, uh, genetic, um, using genetic techniques. So
that's where the seed comes up. Francis Galten of course, and
eminent statistician and eminent, uh, I am a geneticist, I would say. Um, and I, and a biometricians someone
who loves to measure things, the shape of your skull, the
size of your head, the uh, how far your eyes were
apart. The, he had a, he had a particularly creepy habit of
wandering around the United Kingdom with a piece of paper in his pocket
and a pin and he would measure, he would note down how attractive
he thought the women were. Uh, yeah, that itself might make him not
particularly attractive to these women. But that would be, uh, but
that was Francis Galten. Galten was a measurer. He was a
statistician. He was a mathematician. He loved measurement. And he, he
was also a cousin of Darwin's. Um, and so, um, somehow or the other, he thought that he could take what
Darwin had understood about selection, um, and what, uh, English farmers we're doing
with selecting animals, sheep, cows, pigs, and somehow
translate that into, into human, into human beings then it, so that's,
that's the birth of positive eugenics. And it must be said that there were
people in the, in, in, in England, um, notable scholars among
them, GK Chesterton, um, who were really, who really
warned against this idea. This was not a while. The while the, the cultural unions and the English
elite embraced the idea. This was, this was not, it was just
considered very mainstream. It was like taking a walk in the
park, um, and considered, you know, part of what one should do
to make a better nation. Um, and so while these people were
moving along, there were critics, there were critics like Chesterton
and others who were, who said, well, wait a second, there's something
wrong, morally wrong with, with selecting humans. So,
so that's the first phase. The second phase moves us to the United
States. Um, in the United States, eugenics takes a very, I would
call a Yankee practicalism. Um, uh, the practical ism is let's
not talk about, uh, let's not, let's forget for a second about
all the, um, uh, the philosophical, uh, conundrums. Let's just do
it. Um, and so, um, the, the, the, in the United States, it was done.
And by the, by the, by done, I mean, um, uh, there's a famous
story which opens the book, which is the story of Carrie Buck. Um, a woman who was basically
her and her mother. They were basically sent to a
confinement colony in Virginia, uh, so that they would not reproduce and
produce more children. And eventually, Carrie buck was sterilized, medically sterilized so that she would
not produce any children because it was thought that she was, uh, uh, so-called
moron. Um, a definition that was, uh, made based on very,
very quirky and, and largely unsubstantiated, um, uh, rumors.
And this was a big movement. This is not a small side note. Um, uh, people like Ellis Havelock
and, um, others, uh, wrote extensively in the United States
that this was the way to move the country forward to, to, um, to take away the racial dilution. Um, that was happening because of
immigration to the United States. So that's the second phase. To me,
that was the most surprising phase. I had heard of Galten, but I have not
really heard of, of the Carrie buck case. The Carrie buck case was that
Carrie buck herself appeal to, to the courts, um, and the case
climb to the Supreme court. Um, and there was a, there was a,
uh, chilling, chilling, um, uh, opinion issued by
no, no, none else than, than Dr. Holmes on the court. We said three generations
of imbeciles is enough. Um, thereby, uh, enabling,
uh, the state to, uh, sterilized, remove the
ovaries of Carrie Buck, um, so that she could not
have any more children and therefore "breed further imbeciles."
This was a surprising history. And then finally, this kind
of malignant phase of, of, um, eugenics moves to the Nazi Germany. Hitler himself was fascinated by the idea. He was fascinated by the idea even as
a young man. Um, and then of course, when he ascended to power,
um, he and his various, uh, uh, associates, uh, would begin to practice
not just sterilization or "positive eugenics," but
the ultimate, um, uh, uh, perverse form of eugenics,
which is to kill people, exterminate people based on
what was taught to be there, uh, racial and genetic flaws. Um, and so it was particularly the
second phase, this American phase, the incubation of eugenics
in America that surprised me. So do you think that's something
that we need to teach, uh, at school? Uh, and certainly at university that
people need to understand these, these roots of their science? Um, I think it's very important
to teach that because, um, I think there was a normalization, uh, and this process of
normalization, uh, enabled, uh, the ultimate, uh, incarnation of
eugenics that in Nazi Germany, the normalization occurred,
uh, by, or was, uh, propelled by scientists and
intellectuals and doctors and writers of ranging from, you know, Alexander Bell and AG Wells and,
and people who you would not imagine Everybody was a eugenicist
in the 20s and 30s. Exactly. And there were, and there were
few critics who said, wait a second, this doesn't, this is Oliver Wendell
Holmes. There were only few critics, as I said, gesture among them who said that there
was something morally incorrect or something morally smelly about using human beings as objects are
more subjects in this kind of viral experimentation. So the normalization of eugenics
as a consequence of genetics, um, it's something I think
we should teach, um, uh, everyone particularly
because, um, as you know, and we'll talk about it a little bit more, we are coming to an age in which
we are being, we are again, once again able to,
uh, read and write, um, human genomes. In a
way we couldn't before. So the technological
brink has brought us to a point where we could reinvent
to some extent a new form of eugenics. And it would, it would,
uh, it would recapitulate, uh, perhaps, um, some of these, uh, very vial, um, ideas about how to make
human beings better. Um, and so I think it's something that you
should, we should, we should really, even even before we get onto the
most exciting modern technology of CRISPR, which we'll
discuss shortly, the, there is the moment we're actually
carrying out a form of soft eugenics. We're changing the genes
in the human gene pool, uh, by genetic counseling in that
people made a given information. It's then up to them, uh, as to whether
they want to have a baby, but people, uh, can then decide
they can make a choice. And we are effectively influencing
the spread of genes in the population by providing people with
information where they can then decide do they want to have a child or not.
Uh, and that, that relates to, to what I wanted to talk about next. So what you in talk about
the Buck case and the, what struck me in, in, in reading your book and it's
what you're renowned for is the, the way that you weave
in personal stories, uh, including stories from your
own family with the history. And the bit in the TV series, in the two programs that particularly
I found the most powerful was the scene where, uh, the young English woman was going
to get the results of her test for Huntington's disease,
which if it went one way, if she had the mutation, then effectively
it was going to be a death sentence. Uh, and if it went the other way, then
she was, she was free. And that was, that was incredibly tense
and powerful, uh, sequence. I wonder what, which was the,
which part of the, the, the, the, the programs, which aren't
an exact copy of the, the, the emotional bits and the
personal bits of your book, but which parts of the TV programs you
found particularly telling and you were, you were pleased to see on screen? Um, so, uh, so just all those
points are important. I mean, th th th th the television
series that I did with Ken Burns is, it's not, not a, not a
facsimile or a copy of the book. It's very different from the
book. It's, um, I would say, um, we had a long conversation about it and
it's really a compliment to the book if they work as in and yang. Um, in the
television series we decided that people, you know, that the long history of, of genetics is covered in the book
and we would concentrate more on, on, on real stories, on
contemporary stories of genetics. And that was a very complicated decision
because Ken burns of course, is, uh, also a historian. Um, but,
but we felt that, you know, if we went into the depths of the
science, we would, we would miss, um, what genetics is, what's happening
in genetics today. Um, now that said, um, God, no one knows, I think, and it's
the first time I'm talking about this. Um, initially we had the
idea of me going back to Kolkata and, um, meeting again, um, my cousin who has a very severe variant of schizophrenia and has and is
permanently hospitalized. Um, and we decided against
it for several reasons, but that was one idea that, that, that,
that was, that was in the film and that, you know, that would have been, it would
have required an enormous effort. Um, my biggest concern
about that is that - was consent. Um, I couldn't imagine how he would give
consent and how he would understand consent. So we decided
that, you know, w w, w, w, w with people with
mental illness, you know, the idea of consent is, is very important. And being on a very public forum like,
like television would have been, um, extraordinarily complicated. Even
if we could move a television crew. And I agreed to do it. Um, I was very
hesitant about the idea of consent. Um, and so I'm certain that's something,
certainly something we can talk about. Um, now, um, the, the question you
asked was, you know, what were the, for me that were, that were
incredibly moving, I will say both. Um, on one hand finding, you
know, as I said, as you mentioned, the woman with Huntington's disease,
finding her, uh, finding her, finding out her diagnosis
and um, but equally, uh, the child being treated for spinal
muscular atrophy, um, you know, one child in my family dies. Um,
and then they have a new child, they have another child and devastatingly
they find out that the second child also as the disease,
and you can imagine, um, what's going through that
families, um, dynamics or it's, or it's rain, you know, one child has just died and the new
child has been born and he took, carries the mutation. And then the
middle of all of this of course, uh, the, the, the drug, um, for
spinal muscular atrophy, which is really a genetic drug
comes around and this child begins to walk. Um, a miracle! It really is, it's, it's really one of these
examples, um, of miracle medicine. When I saw the footage
of that child walking, I really nearly broke down and cried
because it was just incredible. Um, and finally I would, I
would say that, you know, spinal muscular atrophy is a relatively
rare disease. Um, there's, uh, there's beautiful, um, and
very important footage of, um, of a young African American man, um,
with sickle cell disease, you know, very difficult to treat. Um, um, normally because the only things that
we really have are oxygen and pain control. I'm being given a
bone marrow transplant with a, um, a modified gene that
will, uh, essentially, uh, relieve the symptoms and,
uh, enable him to, uh, not have sickle cells anymore.
Um, and we follow his life. Um, and in one of the last scenes in the
film, he's sort of playing UNO with his, with his family, um, and his, the requirements for going to the
hospital and being transfused and the pain that accompanies that have
diminished dramatically. So all of these success stories
where, um, we're really gratifying. Yeah. I think the, the case of sickle cell anemia or sickle
cell disease rather as it's called these days, uh, is so important because there are so
many people who are affected by it, uh, generally, but not entirely African Americans
in America or Afro-Caribbeans in Europe and of course the
massive African population. Uh, and yet often it's completely kind
of overlooked in favor of, uh, other, other diseases that can be treated. But as you say with the possibility
of the new gene editing techniques, then with the right care, this is a disease that can
now be cured in principle. And we saw an example of that. Um, I wonder if we could say move on
there for thinking about precisely CRISPR and other gene
editing techniques in general for the reasons you've outlined
because of the eugenic past of, of our science, people are extremely
wary and there is at the moment, a general agreement that we should
not be editing the germline, the eggs and sperm. So editing a cell
that's going to produce your blood cells. I think in general, people are
okay with that if it's safe. They don't think there's
an ethical problem, but the ethics of changing
the future generations, uh, is seen as being, that's
the wrong thing to do. And the opprobrium that fell on
Dr. He when he carried out his experiment on those, turns out to be three little
girl female embryos, uh, 18 months ago demonstrates
that. However, what, how could it, what possible harm could
it do say to remove those that the part of the
Huntington gene that causes Huntington's disease. What, if we could do that accurately and safely, where could it go wrong? Because we know what the gene does
in menu and we'd simply be turning it into that version. Do you have a
view on this? It's complicated, difficult question, but we're
all going to have to face it. Yeah, we're facing it now. Um, I would,
there's several comments to make. Um, well first of all, just
an anecdote comment again, just to give you a flavor of how the
film was made when the film was actually complete. Um, and edited when Dr. He
announced the birth of a, what he calls a Lulu and Nana,
the two, the twins that um, but that whose embryos yet edited. Um, and I called up Ken and I said this has
got to be the beginning of the film. So we reopened the, the uh, fully cut film and inserted back in, um, this episode too because we
couldn't ignore it. So, um, so that was is, that's a little
piece of, uh, um, I would, you know, an anecdotal piece, but,
um, look, there are, um, the, the one very clear line to be drawn here is that
the, the genes that we, if we are to start editing
human genes in sperm and eggs or sperm and egg producing cells, the first thing is it has to
be safe. Yeah. Um, the, the, you know, like all the medicine
that the, the, the main, the first concern is safety. Safety
for the, for the child. And remember, this is an unborn child.
The fetus cannot speak, uh, the parents are speaking on behalf of
the fetus, so it's an unborn child. So the first concern is
safety. And again, uh, around that concern is the
understanding of consent. Uh, again, the fetus cannot
consent the embryo, not Lulu and Nana did not consent
to anything. And, um, in fact, we now know that the
consent forms for, uh, the consent for that procedure
was very badly, um, badly done. Um, the second idea, um, I
think that's important is, is that the world has, um, clearly understood that
there has to be some sense of extraordinary suffering
associated with, uh, with that genetic disorder.
Uh, whatever it might be. Um, and it's really has to be extraordinary.
It has to cross that threshold. Now, what's extraordinary to you, maybe
different from what's extraordinary to me? So there are gray zones in
here, but in general, um, the idea that there
would be that, you know, I think that most people would agree that
Huntington's disease and its fulminant form is an extraordinary, as a disease
of extraordinary suffering, um, for patients. So, so, so that's the
second, um, question or second, uh, strong line line in the
sand that we've drawn. The third is, um, uh, so as
I said, the first is safety. The second is extraordinary suffering. The third is that we should have an
enormous degree of confidence that altering the gene will
indeed alter the physiology or the future. Mmm. Mmm. Uh, um, uh, fate, genetic fate, uh, physiological fate of the individual. And we don't know this for
many genes actually. Um, so you may think we know this from
many genes, uh, and there's a, there's a popular press idea that they,
you know, for managing, but you don't, and this is an extraordinarily
important point. We do know that women who
have a higher risk of breast cancer may have a mutation
in the gene BRACA one. What we, what we don't know is how many people
with how many women with BRCA one, uh, developed breast cancer in the
future. So we, we have very strong, we now know, actually for BRACA one in a much better
way because we've done these studies is, but for most genes, we don't know. We
usually look at genes retrospectively. If you have the disease,
do you have the gene? We rarely have looked at the edit
at Jenae genetics prospectively. If you have the gene, do you have
the disease? So what are the set? This point that I'm making, this third point I'm making is a far
from trivial point because genes are modified by the environment.
They're modified by other genes. They're modified by Johns, they're
modified by various other things. So you really have to be confident that
there is that the genetic change that if you do make for a disease
of extraordinary suffering, that you're making this in good faith,
that you will relieve the disease. And finally, I would say that you need to make sure
that there isn't another alternative. So for the, for the child
with sickle cell anemia, um, if a bone marrow transplant with
minimal conditioning, you know, I'm a hematologist, this is what I do
with, uh, with minimal conditioning, um, so that it does not set that child
up, uh, for risk of future cancer, for instance. Uh, that you can do an autologous bone
marrow transplant and cure sickle cell anemia. Um, then why go
into the germ line, uh, where they may be safety concerns. So I think that these are some of the
criteria that we're developing over time. Um, and um, as I said, safety
first, extraordinary suffering. Um, the, uh, the strong conviction that correcting
the gene and the embryo or sperm and eggs will actually correct the disease. And finally that there is
no other alternative. Um, and there is no other that we're not
doing this in a, in a, in a forcible way. Um, I think at least one degree
away from the specter of eugenics, but it's not,
it's not the solution. We still will need to keep one
monitoring and continuously trying to understand why and how and where
we're going with this technology. So to ask you almost the kind
of political question, how, how can we decide that because it's
too important to be left to the scientists or the
physicians, it's a, this, this is a problem that the whole of
humanity is going to have to face. How can we ensure that there's
sufficient involvement of the population, that people realize the
opportunities and the dangers and can help as a community,
as a global community, come to some kind of agreement
as to what is acceptable? Well, I think the first
step is education. Uh, understanding what technologies are
available and what the safety of those technologies are and how we've used them
before, what the track record is and, uh, for those technologies.
So that's the first step. And that's why I hope the book and
the film, um, are really able to, um, bring those two things to
the front, to the front. So, so that's the first step. The first step
is, as I said, uh, technological, uh, uh, education. The second
step I think is to, uh, create a consensus. Um, and it's very, very important because we
have some models for this. Um, when recombinant DNA was
first, uh, discovered, uh, actually by my former mentor Paul
Berg, um, among other people, um, you know, there was
a, there was a furor, there was a very great worry that we
would start playing with genetics. Um, in a way that was not
safe. And so, um, many, many meetings were organized among them.
The most famous of them is asilomar. Um, uh, the asilomar meeting,
uh, which really puts some, a strong boundaries around what
was permissible and what was not permissible. Um, what's important about this Sylmar
meeting I think is that it was not just a meeting of scientists. Uh,
journalists were invited, legal scholars were
invited, uh, bioethical, uh, debates were, uh, encountered, uh,
the general public was invited. Um, so this is what we're talking
about is the human genome. It is the thing that you and I possess
in common and it is a, it is a, you know, it is not up to lab scientists or
doctors in white coats to decide whether to move forward or not. So I think
there's going to be, as I said, a lot of education and a lot
of consensus building before we should, we should do these experiments. And the question really arises if
we should do these experiments, uh, um, one could make a strong
argument that, uh, that, that, um, you know, there are some diseases where you
could use genetic counseling and, and um, what, what is
now called prenatal, uh, genetic diagnosis, um, to not have a child with a, for instance, scary the Huntington's
gene or the BRCA one gene. So should we go that way and,
and let this, uh, let this, let this specter of genetic
alteration on the side or should we allow for diseases that extraordinary
suffering, um, the possibility, uh, of editing the human
genome, uh, instrument eggs. So in a, in a shortly we're
going to be taking the, the questions cause I can see them
piling up. Richard will be, uh, uh, assembling them. I wonder if we
could, uh, before we move on to that, if we could shift gear. Uh, I'm
interested in the way that you've, right. I mean I've, I've written a book which partly
overlaps or contains a bit of what you, you wrote and it was very interesting
to see the differences between, uh, how we approach the topics and
your, uh, your way of writing. It seemed to me, um, as I've already
said it in a much more personal, almost artistic touch. And I wondered
whether, um, I mean you're a physician, you're a scientist, but you're also a physician and physicians
as I think you've just eloquently described debt. However,
rather a more, uh, a rich view, I think often of problems than
somebody who is simply like, I do studying flies.
You've got to seriously. And so I wondered whether you thought, I'm interested in their link
between the way medicine, science and art. So on
a personal level, your, your wife's an artist. She's a
famous famous artist, Sarah Z. Have you ever worked together? Do you we worked together
extensively, privately, um, in the sense that, you know, she
reads everything I write. Um, I'm sitting actually in the
studio, uh, in Sarah's studio, in, in the house, uh, where I'm looking
at you. You can't see them. Massive, uh, eight foot by eight foot paintings
that she's just finished. Um, but we, we work together privately. We
critique privately, but we very, very rarely have done
public events together. We probably have done two or three, um, partly because we just
don't think that, you know, uh, the, you know, the public
events end up being, um, have have ended up being,
uh, too far of a crossover, but, but, but, um, and it's very hard to cross that in
half an hour or 45 minutes. You know, if we did a public event and it was two
hours long, we bore people to death. Uh, we could, we could certainly
do it, but we've done very few. We've done a couple. Um, so, um, as far as medicine is concerned, you know, I think of myself primarily
in writing and not as a scientist writer, but as a physician
writer. Um, and that's very different. Um, it's why, for instance, the book, Mmm. May to some people move
fast or even gloss over some aspects of genetics, but really focuses quickly
on human genetics. Um, and, um, I wanted this
to be a book about, uh, about human genetics as much as it is a
book about the history of genetics and therefore the title. Uh, it's an
intimate history. Um, an intimate, by intimate, I mean not just
the history of my family, but the history of our human
family. Um, and that was a, it was actually a common, a
common critique of the book
that it was a, you know, this book should have been a
call. The, the, uh, you know, a book of human genetics, which I'm
fine with. Um, uh, and it's, it's, it's correct in fact. Um, but there
is, you know, when you write a book, you have to choose, um, otherwise
you would write 2000 pages. And this book was originally
about twice its length. Um, and so a lot of things
were moved into footnotes, a lot of things were moved into
side notes, et cetera, et cetera. It's like making the film
again, you have to use. Um, so, um, it's like making a work of art in a
way. It's like my experience of writing, especially the editing, is it's like
sculpting what a sculptor says is, you know, you're removing the things in the block
of stone and you've got to remove the stuff from it and sense
sometimes you feel, yes, I've just got that right. That's
what it's supposed to be like. Yeah. And also, you know, the
story, the stories of, of, of genetic scientists, uh, is obviously interesting and
important, but as, as you, as you've done yourself, I read your
book of course, and I loved it. But, um, but a fly geneticists would
write a very different book than a humid logic geneticists.
Uh, you know, I, I, I mainly study the genetics of blood
disorders and try to cure them. You know, I do transplantations
among other things. And so, um, it's a very different history. It's
a very different story. And Mmm. I think that understanding those
differences is crucial to reading a book, a book, a book written
by a physicist, geneticist. You know, what is life? The famous building a book
is very different from a flight geneticists writing
about genetics, a human, uh, human epidemiologist writing about
genetics. And in this case, a medical, a doctor writing about genetics and
writing back is on family history. Okay. Richard, have you been going
through the questions? Do you want to, yeah, some of the masses. I know. To me there's quite a few
that have been coming in. It's nice. Great that you've actually
touched on some of them. There's a lot of queries about ethics. I suppose that's the first most important
question in some respects is will this all be on YouTube too? What's
the answer is yes, it will. Um, but I guess so. So, um, there's a lot of follow on from
the careers about ethics, um, that you've been asking.
So one of these was, do you think we need a
change in, in teaching? Um, the way we teach genetics, the different
way we teach biology one Oh one. Um, you know, that this notion that, that it comes as a surprise to learn
that there was a prehistory to eugenics before, um, the Nazis and
the extent to which, um, geneticists themselves. What entwined in the border population
do you think we really need to, um, think again about how we teach genetics
and biology when people first come across these concepts? Um, yeah, it's an important
question, Richard. And, um, the, um, I think that, you know,
not to plug this book, but to plug a whole series of books,
there should be a curriculum in which, uh, every basically every college student, um, in a science track and perhaps even
in humanities is taught something about genetics because
Darwin and Mendel and, uh, the great synthesis and
the subsequent, um, uh, enormous strides and
leaps that follow, um, are part of human history
and human culture. They are not just part of scientific
history in scientific culture. Um, so, um, I know that, that, that the gene, uh, is now part of the curriculum.
Uh, so while you're, you know, making, you know, Punnett
squares, uh, to out, you know, how genes, how a certain set
of genetic traits might be transmitted, you can also read about the social
history and the prehistory of genetics. Um, and they
compliment each other. You understand that this punnett square
you've made on the Blackboard or this Mendell, you know, you know, when you learn about Mendel's experiments
and what he did statistically, uh, had began to have enormous relevance in, in human social history and human
legal history as well. And I, I, I generally encourage, um, when people
have lots of people reached out to me, educators, uh, professors,
and I say, you know, this is, you're not going to use this book as
a textbook, but use this book as a, as a, as a, uh, as part of your curriculum to
emphasize to people who aren't, who understand genetics. To understand that there is that there's
something beyond the textbook and that the things that you're learning in the
textbook have consequences outside of it. Matthew, how do you do, do you
teach a fly genetics course? And what do you do about, well, we, we have a history of
science courses as well that, uh, teach this and in the history
of when we're teaching genetics, we probably don't go into it as
much detail as we do details we do. But my colleagues at university college
London have done exactly this. Uh, Steve Jones, the famous
geneticists popularizer of science. He's now an Ameritas
professor, but he still has, and he's done this for about 20
years. He teaches their students, uh, the eugenic past of Francisco, Colton, and they have to do this because,
uh, Golten is linked with UCL. They have Golten lecture theaters
and they've had a huge row, um, about what they should do about all this. This legacy of a man who
you said is statistic, extremely important because of
his contribution to statistics. But there's other things we can learn
from him, bad things we need to look, mistakes we mustn't make. So I, uh, certainly UCL that's been at the heart
of all of the genetics teaching for about 20 years, including the teaching they
do for the medical students. So, uh, part of the UK, uh,
scientific tradition has, has learned this for many years. Yeah. I should say one more thing,
which is that, um, you know, when we started the film actually, we were going to start the film with
Victor McKusick. Uh, Victor McKusick is, um, very well known as, um, as the person who started one of the first
human genetics programs in the United States. And he would often go
by himself to Amish County, um, to study human genetics. And he was among the first people
to talk about genetic disorders. Um, again, a tradition that began in, in, in great Britain and then was moved to
the United States. So, so, yeah. So we, I, I've been encouraging people
to take a much more sort of a global view around a sculpture
in the round view of, of genetics. Richard, maybe
we should go onto the next, yeah. So there's a couple, a couple
of belated ones here. One is, um, I think that, um, things like your book will encourage more
nuance in the understanding of nature versus nurture, which
has obviously been, um, that debate has been going on for a long, long time and most geneticists
will say it's been about, and there are reasons to be optimistic
that people think that that message getting across. But then there's also reasons
to be pessimistic that
people seem to be reverting to, um, uh, more, uh,
genetic drivers of certain, certain tendencies between we
we'd like to talk less about, well, you know, the book
tried, I mean I try to be, I try to be fair to, uh, this question of nature versus
nurture in the following manner. I think that the debate
has become polarized, um, and in becoming polarized has become, um, has lost its bearings to some extent. Um, if you have the mutant, uh, version or the disease causing
version of the Huntington's, uh, disease gene, then, um, it is very, very Lighty, uh, nurture aside that you will
develop the disease, uh, in, in, in your adults. That is a nature, sorry, that is a genetically
dominated disease. Um, on in contrast, there are other
things that have, you know, where, uh, the environment modifies genetic so
dramatically that you may have a very mild version of a disease even if you
carry the genetic predisposition to it. Um, and in fact, breast
cancer is one example of this. We now know that many people that they're
modifier genes modifying behaviors. Uh, we know this about, um, common
things like heart attacks. Um, we know that coronary
disease is caused, uh, there's a strong genetic
component to it. Um, it is caused by multiple, uh, probably hundreds of
genetic, uh, uh, variants, uh, accumulating as it were, um,
in a person's genome. And yet, um, there are people walking
around, rare people, rare syndromes in with just one gene.
We'll make, we'll give you a risk of, you know, 50 times the risk of the
population of coronary disease. So, um, I think this is a, a, an arena where nuanced
discussion about what exactly nature means and
what exactly nurture means. And it's not always going
to be nature plus nurture. Sometimes it's going to be
strongly dominated by nature. Sometimes it's going to be
strongly dominated by nurture
and many times or more often it's going to be some
spectrum in between. Um, and, and so there has to be, um, I would say some specificity
to the conversation. When you say nature versus nurture, the question I usually ask is
nature versus nurture. For what? For what gene or what condition? Um,
are we talking about breast cancer? Are we talking about coronary disease? Are we talking about Huntington's disease? Are we talking about spinal muscular
atrophy? Are we talking about, uh, you know, um, a variety of other diseases
where genes are extraordinarily strong determinants of whether the
disease happened and no matter how much you try, um, the genes, the genes would drive the disease. Um, I think it's important also for at
a human level because if we begin to confuse the idea of
nature versus nurture, then we also ascribe blame
to people who cannot modify, nurture to defeat nature. Um,
and they feel defeated by it. Um, there are, there are conditions still where the
genetics are so dominant that no matter what you do, you're not
going to reverse it. You're not going to
suddenly be able to change. And it takes the blame away
from, for instance, parents, a parent of a child with a severe
cystic fibrosis and certainly protect that child from infections. But the child will and may manifest
the various complications of, of having two mutations in the two
alleles of the cystic fibrosis gene. It's not the fault of the parent, it's
not the fault of the child. It is the, um, the deck of cards, the genetic
code that that child was dead. And so I think having
a nuanced conversation, whenever people say, "is it nature or nurture?"
I always ask back regarding what, what is the gene, what is
the condition? What is the ailment? What is the trait that we're talking
about? And in some cases it will be one. In some cases it will be other. And
in many cases it will be in between. Yeah. I mean, so if that's one of the points you
make there was that it depends on which disease you're talking about. Another
question that's come up in as being, it's how much of it is a problem that
the things that we're looking at, um, in sort of population genomics, um, are informed by the fact that most of
the studies of genomics have been done on Caucasians. And how problematic is that
when actually, you know, most people in the world aren't and the
diseases that they may be affected by a difference. Um, well, so I think that's a big
problem. Um, I think that, um, we have several diseases where there
are strong genetic components and therefore, um, we need to figure out, we know that there are strong genetic
components because they are passed on in a hereditary manner. Um,
and, uh, it would be very, very helpful to have a much broader, uh, genetic database in which
we would understand this. So I just thought it
would be one example. Uh, prostate cancer among
African-Americans, um, uh, is one example. Um, there are
several others, uh, beta thalassemia, uh, um, and others where our genomic
databases are quite poor, um, in capturing populations
which are not, uh, Caucasian. Um, and so those are
extraordinarily important. Um, I think we are finally seeing
projects out of, for instance, China, West Africa, India
and other places. Um, and the, the, the, the, um, often, um, there's an overlap between what's
in the Caucasian population, but the overlap is not a
hundred percent. Um, um, and so there are new genes or new
risk alleles that are found in non-Caucasian populations, um, which are important to understand their
biology and also understand what kind of risk they confer. So this is, uh, this, this project is broadening all that it's
taken longer than one would have hoped. Right. Question. Sorry, Matthew. Another related question to that which
I'd be interested in both of your perspectives on is that the fact that, um, now lots of people are having
their genomes sequenced. Um, this is becoming much, much
easier. So the, I mean, Matthew, you talked about um, genetic counseling, but the possibility for almost everybody
to have that genome sequence at a trivial cost and the privacy
implications for that. How that'd be a couple of questions
around the issue of society and politics and how does that change
things. And I don't know whether one can, given how easy it is to
sequence somebody's genome now, really expect any form of,
um, uh, privacy going forward. And do we have to think about, and you
guys installation to protect people? Well, so I'm, the privacy privacy concerns
are becoming progressively important because, um, we're entering, I should say that we've entered
a new phase of genetics. Um, and I let Matthew comment
on this in one second, but we've entered a new phase in
genetics in which I would say for human genetics, um, the first genes that we began to
link to disease were genes that, um, have a powerful, uh,
contribution to the disease. So a single genes that have
powerful contributions to disease, cystic fibrosis being one example. Um, uh, breast cancer BRACA one and others
being other examples. So these are, I call them, um, shove
genes or shove effect genes. These genes shove you towards a
particular disease or fate or, or, uh, a particular disease. Um, what we're finding out as computational
power grows is that there are many human diseases which, which we knew were hereditary in the
sense that they were carried in families where the effect of any
single gene is quite minor, but the accretion or the risk
of multiple genetic variance adds up to give you the full
risk of the disease. Um, a great example of this as coronary
artery disease, again, heart disease, very common. Um, there
are people who have, um, in coronary artery disease you
can use about 4% of patients with coronary artery disease, um, will have identifiable mutations in
single genes that will have an enormous effect, uh, and the increase their
risk by a very large percentage. Most people with coronary
disease, um, are, uh, is it's, it's a result of genes and, and
environment. Uh, for instance, diet, exercise, hypertension, smoking. But genes do play a role in this disease
and we now know from a whole bunch of studies that in fact many
done in the UK that the genetic component cannot be
underestimated. That there, that in fact that there is a stroke. That
is that there is a genetic component, but that genetic component
is carried by multiple genes, not one hundreds, perhaps
even thousands of genes, each giving you a little bit of risk. So I call these nudge effects or
nudgings each giving you a little bit of a, an a heightened risk. Um, now the problem is that as
we enter this new phase of, of genetics where we are beginning to
break apart the egg of the nudge genes, privacy becomes extraordinarily
important because you can get, if you sequence your genome, which had, or Matthew or me or Mila, if
you were to sequence a genome, we would begin to find risks and
quantifiable risks for diseases like coronary disease, for
conditions such as obesity, uh, for diseases such as breast
cancer and many others. Um, and therefore the, um, legal, if an insurance company
were to find this out, um, you can imagine that they could, um,
they could do things that were not, uh, that we think would, would not
be allowed under current, uh, current, uh, understanding of insurance. So the privacy question has
become very important. Um, and the possibility of genetic
information leak has become very, uh, has become very important. Now, Matthew,
any thoughts about that? As you say, the UK is particularly
strong in this area. We've got something called
bio bank, uh, where, uh, there's about a hundred thousand people
across the country including my sister actually, uh, who have volunteered to have all of
their physiology and their medical records linked to their genomes. And that way researchers are able to
look for correlations between very small variants. As you've just indicated, these nudge variants in their
DNA and particular conditions. And at that very high level, you're going to end up getting insight
into the kind of processes that are taking place. We don't have the worry about medical
insurance because we have a socialized medical system where it's free
to the user, which is great. Um, and uh, but I think for those people who are
the viewers and listeners who have carried out one of these tests that
proves that 20% Viking or whatever nonsense it is, uh, just
remember, nothing's free. Um, and you've paid for it. And in fact, you've given them your DNA and you've also given them a lot of details
about yourself. And that's, that's their business model. These, these databases from the companies
that have sequencing not a full sequence of your DNA, but they're looking at bits of it
are going to be used in various ways. So the who controls the
databases becomes incredibly important. And in the UK, there was recently a huge Raul because
this biobank database was going to be exploited by Google in ways
that weren't entirely clear to many members of the general
public. Um, so I think this is, this is your DNA. I
mean the most, I mean it's, it's, it's more personal to you than
your credit card. It would be like, it would be like distributing your
credit card information to a company and saying, you know, take it and use it as
you will. Uh, just give me, you know, give me back. I don't know, whatever.
It might be a small compensation for it. Yeah. But of course you're, you're
leaving it everywhere. As we know from every
episode of CSI you've got, you're throwing this stuff
about you shake hands, where we don't shake hands at the
moment. Uh, and you're, you know, so clearly from, there's all
sorts of fantasies about, well, why don't we just have everybody's DNA
sequence when they're born. I mean, that could help the medics and it could
help the police. And if you, you know, if you've done nothing wrong, then
you've got nothing to hide. I mean, I don't think there's many people
who seriously are advocating that, but I think that's, that's an
aspect that whole sociological, political problems associated
with our genes, with our, our intimate life as you
rightly say. Uh, they, we've all got to watch that
like Hawks I think. I think. Absolutely. Yeah. So moving on slightly from Matthew's
utopian view of the future, um, there's been a few, a few questions to both Matthew
about more personal ones about your own approach, um, your own approaches to mentioned
writing. So one of them was, you know, how do you both stay, um, have you both keep up with the
deluge of information and, you know, how does this awesome your writing
process and your choices about narrative in terms of, um, you
know, the cases you choose. I mean, you've mentioned some of this earlier,
but that exam OT you choose. And so I, there's a few, a few questions about how
your write. Um, I wonder if you've, uh, Matthew, do you want to speak to that? Well, Sid first! He's the Pulitzer
prize winner! Uh, you know, my general rule is that I try to, um, emphasize, I try to have, my general rule is that no two
pages of a book should pass without encountering a real human being. Um, uh, that's just my own rule. I use it whether
that's me, whether that's a scientist, whether that's a patient,
whether that's a discover, uh, whether that's a piece of social history.
That's my general rule of writing. Uh, because I believe that, you know, these
things have human consequences and, and you know, as I said, there will, every book about every
subject is different. And you just have to accept
that. Um, there will be, you know, during the editing process, there are people who go away from
the book, people who leave the book, cause you can't have, if you write
about every single person, um, the book becomes a kind of a
name, what I call "name salad." Um, name salad is a very, very bad thing to do to a
book because you then become unreadable. It's an unreadable book. You produce a document that no one
will read and therefore has really no consequence in, in, in
contributing to the conversation. So you have to make choices and be ready
to be critiqued by people about the sources. People are disappointed in those
choices. Um, but you have, you know, as a public figure, as a writer,
as someone who writes, you know, regularly for the New Yorker for
the times not a day will pass by when I get 50 letters, by email or 40 or 30 saying, you know, what a wonderful book. Thank you so
much. And then 10 of them will say, why didn't you include my
mother? Um, and, uh, you know, what about my, my great uncle
who, you know, did this. Um, and I, I'm generally humble about it. I generally thank them gracefully
and I say, look, I mean, I, you know, that book couldn't be written.
That book would be 2000 pages. There's an encyclopedia. And also the other philosophy
that I have is that, and I often say, you know, I often
tell people as directly, I say, if you're the kind of person who opens
my book and looks for your own name, the index, this book is not for
you. Well we all have done that Sid! Exactly. So, so, um, if, if
that's, if that's the motivation, this book is not for you because you
know more about the topic than if, you know, if you're in the index, you
know more about the topic then than I do. So, um, uh, so that's, that's
my, that's my general sense. I'm being facetious about it, but,
but you can't write that book. That book cannot be written. It will be
an encyclopedia, which is unreadable. Um, and so you make choices and you
have to sit with those choices. I mean, you know, I'll give you
one example, uh, of, of this very particular
example. I happen to know, um, Marshall Nierenberg's family very
well. Um, and their collaborative. His, um, his, uh, uh, second wife's son is
Jonathan Weisman. Very, very great scientist is actually
a very close friend of mine. Um, and um, for reasons that have to do with the
structure of the book. Um, you know, of course we know where the force was, the person who deciphered
the triplet genetic code, but for reasons that have to do with
the structure of the book. Um, you know, of course he was mentioned, but the
entire story of the triplet deciphering, um, was condensed into one
paragraph. Um, when I look back, I thought to myself, gosh, you know,
perhaps that that was a wrong decision, but you have to live with those decisions.
But you could read Matthew's book for that then. Right? Thank you Richard. I
was going to say that. I think that the key point
is what kind of Sid just indicated that you, you end up with kind of 2000 pages
or a huge great big thing and then you've got to edit it and the
secret of writing is in rewriting because the first draft or even the
second draft of virtually anything is crap and it's full of all sorts of baggy
bits and it's only by going over it and over and over again and chipping
away like the sculptor and removing the bits that you thought were important, but then you realize that it makes the
reader trip up or it takes them down a sidetrack where it doesn't go
anywhere and you've got to keep the, keep the story going, keep
the pace going. And you know, sometimes we've all got little
factoids, little stories, little darlings that we love
and we don't kill them all. But that is that rule. Kill your darlings, I think is a very good one for
re E the factoid that you have chiseled out that you've discovered
and it's really exciting. After a couple of months you
look at it and you think, nobody actually cares except
me. Let's, let's get rid of it. It doesn't enlighten us. I'll give you another example. And it was actually actually an example
that relates to Cold Spring Harbor. Um, and it's an instructive example. You know, Barbara McClintock was so
far ahead of her time, um, as a scientist that it was
impossible to fit her into this book. She invented a whole lineage of genetics,
which we are now finally discovering, particularly around transposons and
CRISPR and so forth, genetic modification. And I tried and I tried and I tried,
I tried to fit a jam her in here, jam her in there. She was just so far ahead of everyone
else in terms of thinking about genes, um, that it was really
impossible to fit, fit her in. So the best I could do is
put her in a footnote. Now, if you're a Barbara McClintock
fan, I am personally you would say, how dare you put, you know, of all
people, Barbara McClintock in a footnote. But there was no way, because she
was so far ahead of things. I mean, she could have come back in a kind
of CRISPR episode I suppose, but, but there's just sometimes you just have
to be, you know, you're stuck with the, I mean, no one knows the supports because the
Barbara McClintock fans will now start writing to me tomorrow and say, well,
why did you, you know, here's a, here's a perfectly good place that you
could have put, uh, Barbara's work, uh, or dr McClintock's work, I would say. Um, but she was again, so far ahead of her time and thinking
about mobile genetic elements and genetic recombination, blah, blah, blah, blah,
blah. That it was just, it was, I, you know, I tried and I tried, it,
tried, it was a big paragraph on her. I finally moved it to the footnotes.
There was nothing else to do. And I have to, I have to now live with
it. Maybe in another edition of the book, which will come out, you know, now that
we know more about CRISPR, they will, you know, we, we'll have a chapter on,
on, on, on mobile elements and, and, and she can, she can come
back to life in this book. So just about coming up on time. But one more question for you both
before I hand you back to me that, um, that a couple of people have asked this, which is who were the
figures that inspired you? Um, and what, what are
the things that, you know, what are the things that you would
recommend that other people read? I mean, right behind your right
shoulder, I see Cicero Sid, so I don't know if that's on
the list, but, um, uh, yeah, I think people are very
interested in, in, in the fiction. I know there's, there's been, there's
Matthew and I were just talking about it. There's apparently a
whole, uh, a whole, um, uh, meme going around, uh, of the books that
are in the back of, of people and they, when they, when they're on, on zoom
chat. So I want to look back and see, you know, what, what, what,
what among this is, um, is, um, is, is of interest, uh, quickly. Um, I thought this book was
interesting actually. Um, this is Kat Arney's book called
herding Hemingway's cats, um, uh, how our genes work. Um, it
has a lot of stuff on epigenetics, um, which, uh, is interesting
and it's coming to life. Um, well that's great because that was
a question that we didn't get to. So somebody can read a
book on it instead of, yes. You can read a book on that instead. Yes. Um, uh, Matthew, your
books are less visible. Well, yeah, the, the, the, that's
just pawning. It was all sorts of, I'd say this is the UK edition,
uh, but it's transcendence, which is available in the U
S as well by Gaia Vince. Uh, and it's about humans evolution
through fire language, uh, beauty and times. It's all about human ideas and
our human evolution in a way, in a fully social way. Fantastic book. Right. Well that's interesting to know that
you're reading books rather than just wading through documents at
Cold Spring Harbor. But thank, thank you very much for your
answers to those questions. And I'm sorry to all the
people that ask the questions, who we didn't have time for and
I'll just hand you back to Mila. I actually Richard I want to add one
more question because it's sort of related to me in my, I'm
very happy that you know, from participants we received
the question and the question was to see it and they said that many original documents are shown in
the documentaries and how can viewers find this documents
so we can look at them and if they're publicly available,
it's actually to both of you. Well, so, so Amelia, this is still a thank you as well because
the Cold Spring Harbor Archives are a very valuable resource. Um, in fact, uh, what one thing that I, that is a very, very valuable resource is that you can
actually search. You don't need to, I mean, I'm sure you'd welcome them
to go to the Cold Spring Harbor, but a lot of those documents are online
and they're searchable and in fact they're searchable. They're actually
very well indexed. So for instance, you can, if you'd like to, you can,
there are a series of interviews, uh, um, with various
geneticists and biologists. Um, there are also original letters
which are housed there. Um, you can read if you wanted to
read Roslyn Franklin's notes, um, you can access them, uh, not
directly through the CHL, but, uh, through a portal that the CSHL Cold
Spring Harbor Laboratory has. Um, you can see, um, her first, uh, impressions of photograph
51, um, online, uh, never leaving your home. And Matthew, I know you've worked
directly at the archives, so tell us a little bit about that. Yeah, well, I, I was working
there, uh, on, uh, the, the life and work of Sydney
Brenner, um, great British, geneticists to win the Nobel prize for
his work on C-elegans. And, uh, yeah, just going through, sorry.
I met Sydney, Sydney several time. Very funny man. Funny man. Yeah. And I worked at the archives. I was looking at his correspondence in
particular with Francis Crick and the, uh, sometimes rather risque, uh,
postcards they'd send each other, uh, in the 1960s and all these, you can,
I mean, you can see them online, but after the pandemic is over, uh, then go and visit, if you can get a chance to visit the
Archive to actually see the original document is extraordinary, to feel it to, to see what has been said. I mean,
you know, amazing documents that are, that are present. They're
absolutely fantastic resource. Oh, right. Thank you to both of
you. It's actually for me like, pleasure to hear this because we
have so many scholars come in, can use it and we're open to the public. So everyone who wants to come
to see it, they can see it. For those of us who
have enjoyed so much Sid your books and watching
that, the documentaryy, it has been fascinating to hear, um, these personal reflections.
Also Matthew and Sid. Thank you very, very much to share actually
your secrets of writing and to answering to all participants questions. Thank you, Richard, to work so hard on this and
thank you very much to the participants what they want
to emphasize that it will be, it is recording and it will be available. Your conversation and all
event on YouTube as well. Uh, at, um, our CSHL.edu website and on the website
of the center for humanities. Thank you very much for participation.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: wvgzHPXaD10 (https://youtu.be/wvgzHPXaD10) ===

nice thing about using targeted and nutritive therapies is that the cancers can no longer attract the shell and what happens over time is that their capacity to build this cell around themselves becomes less and less possible and that's because they don't secrete the factors that throw out the cells that form the shell so what you do then is come back with some kind of immune therapy as either maintenance or as down the road there so there is a path forward that has to be rational logical and sequence welcome to Target cancer podcast my name is Dr sanjanaja I'm a hematologist and medical oncologist also known as the ant talk on social media we try to educate and do a bunch of stuff today is super special because I have basically one of the biggest reasons I actually went into oncology and believe it or not City may not know this is also like I get a little style when I see your picture sometime I'm like oh I kind of like that I think you have a shirt just like this so we have the Pulitzer Prize winner best-selling author the person that really Bridges kind of academics of oncology with philosophical you know just ideas of how everything is uh interplayed Dr Siddhartha Mukherjee who is here to talk about hopefully a couple of things but the thing that I find really interesting which is one of the questions I get most on all my Social Media stuff is diet diet what can I do for diet you know to prevent cancer but especially I get a lot of questions when people have cancer and it's super frustrating because a lot of times the medical oncologist the answer is well you want to do this and that but nothing concrete so Dr thank you so much for being here and we're excited to have you my pleasure thank you for having me one of the things and you know I think anyone that that kind of follows my educational handle stuff knows about your book Emperor vomalities it's always the one that I kind of you know recommend when people are kind of faced with a cancer diagnosis one of the biggest things about cancer as you know and it's kind of the reason for the book I'm trying to write which is it's time to cancel the term a cure for cancer because it's very deceptive right you're basically trying to take something that arguably was almost celestially orchestrated or divinely orchestrated to have so many fail stops that is the human body through Evolution cells what if this doesn't work what if that doesn't work you tend to take all that like over hundreds and thousands of years the mechanics and algorithms and you're trying to basically now have to fight it when those same mechanisms are in place but all of a sudden it's going rogue and it makes it interesting but also again deceptive because it's hard to find a cure there's all kinds of mechanisms in place one of the things outside of targeted therapy that we talk about in Precision medicine and saying okay this is the on switch that makes it grow and this is the thing that's making it Escape immunity so stop that you're just you're frantically trying to you know keep everything up to speed with as quickly as the cancer which I kind of relate to viruses grows but you're looking at also what are the tools it uses outside of like necessarily you know the targets that we use and the immunity and you're looking at basically amino acids or the fuel or the gas potentially if that's not too kind of rudimentary on are there some cancer types and pancreatic is one of them which you always say why is it so stubborn it makes you know it recruits your own cells it uses fiberglass to repel other people micro environment stuff but you're like let's look and to see like really are there some tools that it's using that does make it unique and is that where you started with talking about these amino acids and pancreatic cancer yes but let's maybe we should take a step back yeah the step back it goes back to the 2000s and the early 2000s now cancer is of course a genetic disease even if it's caused occasionally by viruses like human papilloma virus or Epstein-Barr virus but it's essentially these viruses or genes themselves are mutated and ultimately cancer is a genetic disease genes are mutated those genes turn the normal processes of growth abnormal those cells now grow abnormally the we I liken it to saying it's like a car where the accelerators are jammed the acceler is being excited the growth or the bricks are snapped so that the cell can no longer have its normal ways of dividing right and the key is when you say genetic and that was one of our podcasts is we don't mean necessarily that was an inherited genetics right so people I think often mistake that to mean like oh but I don't have it in my family that we mean things that 85 percent of the time there used to be 95 now we're saying okay maybe we've learned about some more 80 percent time it's something that was errors in these genes with replication of billions of times in your lifetime in your lifetime that causes these errors that's correct so so there are two kinds of or the three kinds of errors that can be caused right one is we talk already about viruses uh viruses can come in tamper with your genes make yourself behave abnormally the second kind of error is that you unfortunately inherit something from your family which gives you a higher risk of getting cancer that would be genes like bracha 1 p53 and other syndromes and those patients have higher risks of cancer it's a little bit hard to quantify that number because that number keeps changing we used to think that they were single genes they're single genes that are very strong in their effect but now we know that there are other patients who have multiple genes tens 12s 15s maybe even hundreds that they inherit from their parents which raise their risk of cancer by 5 4 10 4 7 40. and then they're finally genes which are probably the most important set of genes that are mutated that change because when cells divide they make copying errors like a photocopier makes an error in making photocopies when Excel divide it's a photocopier it makes a change and that change happens to be in a gene that controls cell growth and that contributes to cancer so very broadly speaking those are the categories now going back to the 2000s we and as a community I'd say we had this idea that since cancer is a genetic disease then it must be the case that if we could find ways to block the products made by these genius proteins we would be very successful and many drugs came out of that a drug is called like Gleevec drugs like parasiva came out of the genetic sequencing and the genetic understanding of cancer and they were very successful some of them like Vivek are extraordinarily successful and then in the 2010s we began to feel that we're a little bit stuck that was a very humbling moment for everyone because we thought that we had solved the basic pathway not the not the answer but the basic pathway by which we would move forward in cancer research but we began to get stuck and the stuckness had to do with the idea that these genes many of these cancer genes cancer-causing genes just one great targets for drugs I'll give you an example you know I treat leukemia and when I treat leukemia I know exactly which genes are mutated I can tell you their names they're not relevant Tech to dnmt3a who knows you can call them various names and when we try to see if they could be targeted by either drugs or any other molecules we never found really good ways to Target them that was problem number one problem number two is that even and this is really really important even when we did find ways to Target them especially really the ones that were strong drivers of cancer what happened is that the cancer cancer cells because they're evolving all the time found ways to go around that Target it's a little bit like you know we would put we would find their killings here of cancer and we'd be very we'd be very happy and congratulate ourselves and we would drive an arrow into the Achilles heel of cancer and the cancer being growing so fast and evolving would just take the arrow out and throw it away yes and and to that exact point you know that's where the way that I help I think people understand is the same way was like with covet I thought we vaccinated against I think it's over the same way that viruses kind of like grow and then they get these variants right they they look different well why do I need another booster that's more comprehensive what does that mean well if that protein that you're attacking that M Spike or that M protein uh on the initial if like they just get smarter it's like the selection pressure of a viral Illness but in this in this case with therapy then all of a sudden in their desperation they're like okay I can you know undergo Calamity and basically try to find any escape to where this thing isn't needed anymore the same way when we walk hormone cancer it's often a misconception that the cancer is evolving as we give the therapy that's not the case the cancers and the viruses because they're mutating all the time and they have what's happening really is that there's already and I have to emphasize this there's already a variant that is resistant correct and all you're doing is killing off everything else and selecting that variant exactly um this was a big realization actually cancer doesn't have a brain and viruses don't have brains either but they do have mechanisms by which they mutate and if you have a billion of them then there's a chance that one of them has already even before you start the therapy has already developed a mutation that will cause it to resist your therapy so then the term I'm happy you said that because the term you know we had Dr Keith Flaherty talking about you know in some sense like the immune system play and everything like that but we use this term Escape mechanisms but to your point and it's a very good one is when people say well oh chemo you know they actually are not carrying the cancer on purpose right that's one of the things I get on social media and it's like it's hard to explain why after nine months to 14 you know 18 months especially like you said egfr it's aggresso and all these things it's hard to explain to somebody short of testicular where you can cure it with chemo why how you can't see anything but but it still always comes back and and there's this you know you learn from kind of opinion because I think it's better to just like accept where it's coming from then fight it and the thought is well then why is it coming back how come if it all went away comes back into your point and even that term Escape mechanism which they always talk about in colorectal with like oh well now they're not using this pathway what you're saying is it wasn't an escape it was it turned out to be an escape like in retrospect because it already underwent something that was not going to be this basically vulnerable to what the initial chemo and the initial tumor burden was that's what all the science shows thus far that makes so much more sense that the mechanism by which a cancer stops responding to your therapy even if it started your therapy is not because it has a brain and we figured out that you know this is the way I'm going to escape it it is because it already possessed a mutation that allowed would have allowed it in any case to escape the toxicity of the of the drug this has many many many consequences we can come to that in a second it has many consequences for how we think about therapy how we build therapy but we can come come to all of that in a second all right now in the 2000s we thought that if we found enough drugs that would kill the cancer cells targeted drugs especially we would Conquer Cancer and some of them were very successful we talked about we talked about really that being really the best example for a cancer called chronic biologinus leukemia or CML Gleevec really takes that cancer and puts it into one of the most profound remissions that has ever existed we were so excited and we thought that all cancers behave like this and you know we'll find these Achilles heels for all cancers pancreatic colon Etc and that's how things are going to go ahead and then reality things it hits slowly and slowly and now it's hit really hard and by heart I mean that we've tried now we've found in two problems problem number one is that cancers some genetic mutations that are in cancers we don't even have drugs for and we can't even seem to find them problem number two is that when we do find them they have that same they undergo resistance the most striking of these is after Decades of work we found a drug a group led by Kevin showcat and others found a drug that was exquisitely specific to block a pathway that was that is considered one of the central mechanisms of many many cancers and when they use the drug the extension of life was like 11 months or 10 months the cancer is resistant and all the patients died similarly work done by Lou Cantley who supports my collaborator will talk about all of that found drugs against another very prominent Gene that's mutated in cancer called B10 same story when they you know when it was applied the extension of life was a few months but to your previous point do we call it resistance then or is it that it just satisfied the initial like you know tumor biology and molecular sequencing of what we biopsied and really just were already behind the new one that was going to be P10 resistant or previous one you mentioned it's you know you don't mean like the semantics then because you really like injected this interesting thought to me about how is it escapes is it resistance or is it just sheer Serendipity of sorts like fortunate for the cancer where it's already ahead of you like you've already had this very that exists all right yes so let me say a few things about that Bert robot scene who's probably one of the smartest cancer researchers on the planet always says that there are three zeros between one billion and one billion if you have one billion cancer cells in your body that's one billion opportunities that the cancer cell has to have a mechanism by which it can resist a drug if you have 1 million cancer cells in your body it's three log or three times zero a thousand times less likely to create resistance against the drug right so keep that in the back of your mind because numbers matter but let's go back to the story that I'm trying to tell you we then began to realize that maybe it's not the cancer cell that we should be attacking only we can still attack the cancer cell but really what the cancer cell has built around itself the home the nest and that Nest has many components cancer cells need nutrients they need blood vessels they need to build a tissue environment around around themselves almost like an organ and maybe we should be instead of killing cancer cells only we should be focusing our attention on these metabolic pathways nutrient Pathways the the nests that the cancer is building on themselves the blood vessels that they draw the immune system that can or cannot look at them etc etc etc so by the mid-2000s a new idea is and was being born around cancer and that is that let's not attack just the cancer cell let's attack these homes these nutrients these metabolic pathways that cancers build around themselves and that's where I come in that's where I grew up because I like many other people was disappointed but also excited about the idea that maybe the problem is not just the cancer cell but this home this environment micro environment nutrient environment metabolic environment immune environment vascular blood vessel environment that the cancer builds around itself the advantage of these environments is that unlike the cancer they don't mutate there aren't billions of them they are relatively static and that's where I began to think that oh gosh maybe my work should be not around sequencing cancer cells and finding drugs that kill the cancer cell but rather thinking about what the cancer cell builds around itself metabolically vascularly blood vessel wise you know it's home etc etc I'm so sorry to interrupt you but the one thing that I thought think about again with these kind of allegories to just like human life as a whole is the same strategy they use in medieval times right if you had a castle and you had a whole bunch of people in there and you knew you couldn't really overtake the castle it was a strategy to basically say well heck we're just not gonna let you bring food and water and just starve the people inside and they build even in modern like War yeah right you would learn the fields around the castle and starve the people right without having to attack those Gladiators they just they starve like you're you're and they do it for war even Advanced like oh let's not let them get their weapons across this way so it's like you know they're powerful but you just want to dismantle the things that would be and that's the strategy that I thought would be very interesting that's wild and so when I launched my cancer career it was all around that strategy it was all around I don't sequence cancers I mean I sequence cancers meditate but that's not what I do as my sort of intellectual living what I do is I think about Cancers and I think about what homes they build if you think about again your analogy like who's bringing in the food into the castle what food is it and can I block the food can I block the blood vessels and that's how fire started if I had started with this idea that it's great that you know you can find drugs against the cancer but let's also block the mechanisms by which the cancers are metabolizing eating growing etc etc etc and that's the really the basis for fired as a kind of an intellectually uh the intellectual business with the company and that's interesting and because you're leveraging what we know people sometimes think of cancers like this enigmatic nebulous you know foreign thing but it's not it's it it was once a normal cell of sorts the one that started it all and it has a bunch of the tools that we know about normal cells so you're like let's extrapolate that like just knowing what the biology of cells are like and seeing if we it's almost a back door because now you're not trying to do the things that make it it's like any of those shows movies the thing that makes it so scary like this thing will never be defeated like Venom or whoever and instead of backdoor you're not trying to fight the things that make them so malignant but instead say dude I'm not gonna unless you have the tools to be able to like carry out your you know that malignant effect which is just it just so novel and then the question though would be that I think a lot of people would you know higher level and think okay but then wouldn't that starvation cause a starvation you know for your own intrinsic cells and my answer my guess would be no because they're not as hungry are not on the sixth year in that in that car very important question so there is a relatively narrow window by which in which we can find these metabolic Achilles heels so it turns out that cancers because they're growing so quickly and because they're dependent so acutely on nutrients are different from normal cells now this was known for a long time German scientists named Otto Warburg knew about this in the 1900s early 1900s if cancer is metabolize sugar differently than normal cells lots of scientists have known since that time that cancers metabolize amino acids to make proteins differently from normal cells look Handley and I showed that cancer is metabolize sugar especially when they're given stress with a drug differently than normal cells so there are in fact Achilles heels for cancers which will not affect normal cells but will affect cancer cells because the cancer cells are very very acutely dependent on these amino acids for their growth now you may have some side effects but they're nowhere near what you would expect from people it's kind of like the same concept of cytotoxic chemo somebody might say well well if it's cancer cells are normal and you're giving a poison from the yew tree taxol whatever like when they poison your regular cells yes but the reason that it's so effective and the reason for the earliest phase one and phase two is give it enough for the stuff that replicates fast and gets the damage and the ones that are slower the hair ones the GI ones may suffer a little bit more it's literally taking that concept but backwards it's like saying you know you need gas and and a change of oil at a certain frequency but if you're in sixth gear in an M5 you're going to need it something different than being in third gear at a lower speed and having a much you know less aggressive engine it's the same ish strategy of being able to like distinguish the two in the cytotoxic realm but instead in the provision realm which is like what you're providing for it to be able to execute so that's that's so interesting and then of course I think it's a wonderful questions it's not just a hypothesis it turns out that the genes that are mutated in cancer cells don't just mutate the growth of the cell or change they actually find mechanisms by which they can use these amino acids and use them in quicker in quicker ways in faster ways so it's it's like once the brakes and the accelerators have been jammed and broken in your car analogy it's as if that the entire engine begins to say I can use corn oil corn uh how they're trying to get fuel and gas with the corn products I can eat that I used to be able to use yes and that's something that no one knew but over time we and others have found that you know this is what the genes do they figure out different ways to use the gas and use the gas faster and the faster that they use the gas the more dependent the more addicted they become to the pathway by which they're using the dance in totally what happens is that they they find a mechanism and our job is to prevent them from finding that mechanism and in fact prevent them from even using that mechanism to fuel their growth often people say oh you know cancers eat sugar so you don't don't eat sugar because you'll just you know fuel your cancer stuff that's not right cancers are more sophisticated than that it's not like they're eating sugar they're metabolizing sugar and metabolizing and eating is a different thing right metabolizing means that converting chemically converting things into other substances that allow them to fuel their growth eating means obviously ingesting something so it's not like you you aren't feeding the cancer in the sense that you understand like in in the common common places what you're doing is you're you're targeting very particular metabolic pathways chemical Pathways in the cancer such that that addiction that the cancer cell has to whatever it might be amino acids certain amino acids certain kinds of sugar etc etc is disrupted so when you go to your doctor it's not like you're gonna go to your doctor and say I'm going to stop eating sugar what you're gonna have to do if fire is successful is you're going to have to find very specific and we've found them already very specific ways in which you interrupt or disrupt the metabolic pathways internal digestive system of cancer cells such that they can no longer grow that's a huge statement the internal metabolism I hope people heard that it's not your body but the cell yeah it's not your body it's the internal digestive system of that cancer cell yes yeah that's a huge point yeah so you you you cannot starve your cancer as far as we know all those people be crying this for a while you can't starve the cancer by starving yourself you could but you would die in the process that's what I that's what I kind of say I'm like it's a it's a technically correct statement yes you can solve your cancer cells but your own cells will die well before that so like it's that concept is there's no way that you can just completely block everything it's not binary one thing feed one thing not all of the ways that they process and everything are you know you just you can't without without literally killing a person in the process exactly so instead what you do is you find a particular internal digestive system of a cancer cell find the molecules that are part of the internal digestive system of the cancer cell that make it vulnerable to particular nutrients and you block that internal digestive system without causing you know you your whole body to starve and there's a there's a line or a window by which you can do that after a certain point of time if you kept doing that your whole body would start starving so somewhere in that window there's a sweet spot there's a sweet spot and bias and we and all our scientists have found such sweet spots there's not one there are many there are amino acids they're kind of sugars etc etc etc but it's not like you know you can say to yourself I'm not going to eat any protein and my cancer is going to go away it's not going to happen you have to find as I said the internal metabolism of the cancer and we have Target those and make sure that that doesn't affect the rest of the body but slows down the growth that makes sense that makes perfect sense and I think the next question that if anyone listened to previous podcasts is I had one where I really wanted to delineate you know the kind of almost rudimentary way we thought of histopathology as like oh this is how the Cancer's gonna behave it's like oh it's it's I don't know of the lung or you know whatever and and you know these episodes help people appreciate how dude it's so much more than that it's not just the histopath it's like okay proteanomics is it hurt too positive or not and then okay now we're talking molecular so the same way all that stuff is complicated and then you know if you can use your bracket pathway or not we've we've dissected all these things my next question I think some of the viewers would say is okay Dr Mukherjee is this a carbon copyable observation or is it something that you need to take your own like somatic tissue of that cancer cell don't put it in formalin take it and actually study that kind of like particular fingerprint and blueprint of that cancer cell or does everything look like it's actually you know applies in some correlation to either a molecular profile or just even the histopath I suppose for that quote-unquote pancreatic or whatever that tumor may be so it's an incredibly important question how personalized does this have to get um and the answer is that so far it seems as if these mechanisms are relatively General I'll use the word relatively because it has a little bit of a dependence on what genes are mutated because some genes are particularly good at as I said hijacking the fuel and those of course are the cancers that we want to send Achilles arrows right some genes that are particularly good but those but it's they're not like weirdly uncommon Gene these are common genes that are commonly mutated in cancers so it's not like you have to do an incredibly complicated histopath right or it can be complicated genetic pathology on the cancer and then come back and say oh you know I'm going to only make a particular diet for you that's specific for you it's much more that I would say that your cancer like 15 others or 20 others or 100 others or 500 others has a gene that has a particular capacity to use this fuel we know this because of experimental data so the diet that we're going to prescribe for you is X or Y right so you've observed that like you've like and that's that's the that's the answer right in in real scientific models yes right this is not this is not a hypothesis right this is like and that's that's the answer there is is when somebody says well Sanji you always talk about like Precision this is because that is remember the the closest thing to a fingerprint without taking the cell is just doing the sequencing If You observe that hey if it has x x z double zero it seems to like use these amino acids XC double zero ooh Let's test it oh yep sure enough they all be in the same way I mean that's how you that's that that isn't a very basic way how we treat hormone positive breast cancer if it has R2 you use it if you don't don't doesn't mean like eventually down the line maybe the not working this and that but we know that works and that's why a lot of people see it disappear up front so that's super cool and interesting now and I'm sure you were getting to this I'm just going to swipe it a little bit sooner but we've said many times and I've said and Keith Flaherty says that most expensive freedom I know you do because I already know the answer to this so forgive me but but that the way we're gonna like control cancer for a long time if not cure all cancers but at least control is going to be a multi-modality thing right so you talk about immune therapy and your podcast with Peter and Tia and how phenomenal it was you're re-enabling something that's always been doing what it's doing and got tricked for a moment you took off that you know invisible cloak from Harry Potter and all of a sudden it gets exploited and it gets attacked so you talk about immune therapy we talk about this cytotoxics when that's appropriate for the replication we talk about targeted therapies can this be done can I attack it from both ends can I attack that driver that that Thor hammer that the cancer is trying to use and I hopefully can Target it or I have to use cytotoxic just because it's so fast chemo but can I also then like Rob them if it's you know calories and hydrate and get them into an Aki basically by starving is it possible to attack it from both ends or even triple end if we can incorporate them into every one day of course it matters on the cancer type but surely you can if this could be used concurrently with with standard care Target therapies and cytotoxic I mean that's just that just feels good yeah combination that's amazing there's absolutely no reason that we aren't using most of these therapies and economies and that's why I said it's important to think about numbers I love numbers I'm sure you love numbers um there's a difference between 1 billion one trillion and one million so what do we do a one rational way and there may be many rational companies but one rational way to do all of this would be when you have a big tumor and you have a big tumor burden you use cytotoxics to kill most of your cells so you do a one billion to one million reduction now why does that help it helps for many reasons but the main reason it helps is it gives the cancer 1000 less chances of the communities oh see I don't think to highlight that that's so true it's the Rapid Way of just trying to reduce the chance of these like variants that get smarter ah that gives an interesting point to using immunotherapy alone for a high pd-1 versus like you know and against extrapolation versus Triple agent because yeah you might say oh this could respond well but we know immune therapy takes a while versus like if it's high burden lung like you know arguably so interesting why wouldn't you want to knock it downside reductively and incorporate that immunotherapy that's such a huge point that it's never been brought up on these shows I'm so happy you said that so the first thing that you would do rationally speaking is cytorejaptive therapy and it's cytoductive for several reasons of course it relieves some symptoms but more importantly it reduces the number of chances that the cancer has to create a resistant mutation and if it's a high disease break if you've got the cancer super early you don't need cyroductive therapy because you're already not at one billion cells but at one million cells all right now you reduce the cancer burden and now you use multiple angles of Attack One angle of attack is to use nutritive therapy so that you can starve the cancer the second angle of attack is that while you're starving the cancer you use targeted therapy and the third angle is that we've now learned over and over again that immune therapies don't work for many Cancers and we started figuring out why that's because cancers invent a kind of shell around themselves a shell of other cells a nest a home a citadel a port whatever you want to call it and immune cells can't get in there the nice thing about using targeted and nutritive Therapies is that the cancers can no longer attract the shell and what happens over time is that their capacity to build this cell around themselves becomes less and less possible and that's because they don't secrete the factors that draw out the cells that form the shell so what you do then is come back with some kind of immune therapy as either maintenance or as down the road so there is a path forward but it has to be rational logical and sequenced so you do cycle reduction to reduce mutational burden that's the immediate threat that's the day-to-day threat of having this recurrence right resistance you use cyroductive therapy and then you slowly begin to joke and paralyze the cancer and as you choke and paralyze the cancer imagine going back to your analogy of the Citadel right The Citadel if you burn the fields around the Citadel if you burn the fields around the fort people in the fort can't come out anymore and start planting new Fields so what that happened was that enables it to happen is that the immune cells can start going in and potentially restarting an immune reaction and we have other companies and other programs I have and others have other programs to do exactly that is that once you've burnt the field once you've burnt out the supply chain as it were for the cancer cell you then come back with immune therapies of various sorts so that now they can enter the fort and start killing the cells themselves so it's all it has to be done sequentially and thoughtfully and there's there are many blockades we can talk in another program about what the blockades are there's farmer companies that won't collaborate there are some that will collaborate blah blah blah but there is a road forward and the road forward is not just absurd it's not nonsense it's it's very logical right he says that they're like you build one on top of the other right it's not like you're just like oh I think one day like no it's like we're we're finding the different ways to really you know beat that thing or not even that I hate to use singular terms but but like you said the sequence and that's the point we haven't hit well is very important I'll do one more on top of that I don't know how you feel about it but I actually have a podcast coming up and I'm a buddy of mine he's a PhD uh he went to Juilliard in person anyway he said someday the reason people aren't talking about this because it's not sexy it's not talking to therapy but what they're looking at is basically to putting like high intense like triple levels of chemotherapy intra-tumly with an injection to do what's called antigen presenting cells antigen presenters same story and then you do that immune system to hopefully give it even more targets to hone on exactly the same story you think that you know you do high doses of therapy into a tumor to kill the tumor that's not the reason you're doing the high doses no you're doing it get it out the immune system so that it can now go to other tumors and there's a fancy name for it it's called the abscopal effect it's me it means that a tumor in your left arm if it gets an appropriate immune response all of a sudden those immune cells can go to the tumor in your right arm because they've been educated exactly and they know how to kill the cells in your left arm so they now know how to kill the cells in your right arm or whatever but that said there's a logical way to move forward and we are in the middle of that logical way and and the only way that we can do that and this is going to be my last Vlog is to restore what was broken by covet which was The Temper trial system we have got to restore the clinical trial system because the clinical trial system was desperately broken by covert nurses left coordinators left positions left Emergency Room Physicians left so we need to restore it so that all of this knowledge that we're collecting including the knowledge that we're collecting in fire can now become converted into clinical reactants that's huge that's one of my big pushes lately because when people say well why we haven't found Doug cure again singular but why didn't this have any other it's because you need the data to show and now I explain how phase one and phase two there's a reason people say well trials or guinea pigs this and that because back in the day back back it's like you drip enough poison to see if it kills the human subject or not that was science season and Mad Hatter stuff we are light years away from what that was right like that was that was available inside of toxic in the face who doesn't work now it's like a lot of what we're doing is stuff that we already know works with cell allergy or with targeted even you know things in other tumor types it's more like that splitting hairs and then splitting the Keratin cells and stuff to really be able to say these are the constituents and like you said the sequence I'm so glad you said that because I keep saying multi-modality but we mean multi-modality in sequence that is going to help just dismantle it's kind of death by a thousand paper cuts it's like if you can't beat the person and also the sequence is scientific yeah scientific it's not like right spaghetti on the wall it's one by one by one and the read and there's a reason behind it right because we know the science um normal cells and family we've studied we're taking where you use this term at some point on the shoulders of those you know before us we're literally taking what we've learned in observation stuff even if it didn't directly relate to pancakes taking those Concepts which is why can't which is what science is and attacking essentially something that is again a normal cell but we're doing it based on completely you know observational understood Concepts and that's huge now on that note I'm going to use this analogy and you're probably going to want to just throw up and or never talk to me again but but tell me if this kind of makes sense for our viewers like little 30 60 second clips about really like Salient points that you're making and to your point about sugar and sugar metabolism and starving it and not starving it and how you're saying it's not just a matter of like if you have it but it's what you do with it what came to mind oh my God I'm so embarrassed like hero is gonna I'm gonna say this if you get into a doggy hot dog eating contest and you didn't know how that hot dog eating contest worked and somebody said you're going to eat as much as you can this has some big guy that's just the dude I can put down some hot dogs he will unequivocally lose right he's just gonna try eating hot dogs and imagine a world where you only had hot dogs for for that matter the reason he loses is not because he can't eat or eat fast it's because when you see a competition you notice the way they're using it they like put in the bread first put in the water make it like much easier to swallow so they don't struggle and then like chop up the There's an actual complete it's the same stuff a hot dog and Devon and the water but they use it in a manner that completely if you took away the water that person that's the best in the world cannot win like you just cannot win if you made them do the water at the end or just the beginning he cannot win so you've taken the arguably what's his name or whatever you haven't changed the person which is the cancer cell you haven't changed the tools which is the the bun the the wiener or whatever the PC term is and water but you've done something about it to where you've dismantled that guy from winning any competition just because of what like of how it's used and again that's a very rudimentary example but I hope that can help people appreciate it's like oh it's not a simple thing of just take all the hot dogs like obviously then nobody can eat but there is some ways to use like with limitations you can only use this much water versus an amateur use it more and more um that you just came to me I mean based on your description but but I think it's pretty accurate it's exactly right which is that it's not that we're removing sugar or nutrients from the environment it's the way that we are removing the mechanisms or the internal what I call the internal digestion of a cancer cell that allows the cancer cell to succeed over a normal cell that's right that's the difference that champion is still like like he's still the fastest whatever under those circumstances but he's robbed and you didn't do anything to him you didn't change his mouth his tongue his taste nothing you just you just monopolize the way that he was able to like put himself ahead of the rest that's why amateur will never win this is amazing it's a great way a very surprising way to end with you know something so amazing with hot dogs it's America for you Dr Mukherjee this was a true honor true pleasure I'm I just can't wait to start funneling and helping people that are really you know the one thing about covet is it made people very curious and feel more ownership and responsibility and wanting to have some empowerment and control over their medical decisions and especially when it relates to cancers I think that is some you know the positive where we can capitalize this is going to help we're gonna funnel people there because people care about diets and care about these things and I'm just so excited and the only thing the last message is enrolled in clinical trials because if you don't or if one doesn't uh nothing will advance 100 thank you so much this is amazing [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: yArThnjLiEI (https://youtu.be/yArThnjLiEI) ===

and we are back here with a stellar guest dr. Saddam Mukherjee I know that everybody googles everybody these these days shamelessly somebody called somebody will start googling at the other end so all of you know about him so I will not spend more time reading up his bio-data except to say he is he is somebody who can multitask more than I have seen anybody multitask to this champion dr. he the units are winning author he is a scientist but most importantly the deeply reflective person who is willing to push the boundaries and who's willing to question his own science all the time so the best scientist is the one who questions their own science there are other scientists who think that anything that I have said once will always remain the same but the beauty of science is it always changes so cidade thank you very much for being here and Kiran I don't have to introduce her to you if I have introduced Carol anywhere in India but most of all in Bangalore then I think I'll be accused of wasting time and birth so Karen as I said to you earlier she'll ask the intelligent questions I will ask the dumb questions the first one I lost I've been tutored to ask this so it might sound like an intelligent intelligent question but that's because somebody told me to opt it we can all talk about cancer and we won't read your first book and everybody is scared of cancer so let me start the what's new what's new right now is a cell in place of a pain because you say that what if you can cure a disease by using cured the disease by using the cell instead of the pill will you explain that anything sure first of all thank you for having me thanks as well we are undergoing in cancer therapeutics we will talk about cancer prevention and early detection separately but in cancer treatment we're undergoing a series of very profound revolution as you as you very well know for the longest time the model for cancer treatment was based on cell killing drugs standard chemo therapies and this was built upon surgery and radiation so you really had three choices surgical removal of the tumor radiation to kill the cells and chemotherapy traditional classical chemotherapy cell killing chemotherapy to kill the cells that paradigm began to evolve in the 1990s as our community of cancer scientists began to discover what the root causes of cancer are what is the root cause of cancer and we now know that the root cause of cancer of course is mutations or alterations in DNA alterations in genes and genes usually that control the division of cells but can also control other factors such as how cells acquire nutrients in order to divide and so forth so once those were found there was an attempt to find new medicines a new class of medicines which were which would strike at the Achilles heels of cancer so these were also chemical therapies but they were called targeted therapies and they included not just molecules like imatinib or Gleevec but also antibodies such as Herceptin or trastuzumab finally much much later as these paradigms began to evolve we also began to understand that cancers are surveyed by the immune system by our own immune systems and often we began to understand that cancers grow in the presence of an immune system often by evading immuno surveillance and so the the thought this was an old idea but had been not been possible to really incorporate into the cancer pharmacopoeia was what if we could use these immune cells or other cells just as we use drugs to cure cancer what if we could weaponize a cell an immune cell and by weaponize I mean add to that sell a virus that would educate that cell to go and kill a cancer and thereby kill the cancer cells and this whole idea which was in its infancy in the early 2000s began to acquire a lot of potential and now has become one of the most interesting arenas of of cancer research let me be clear not all cancers have been amenable to this kind of therapy so cellular therapy is really a very broad term but it uses this idea that you can use cells rather than pills or or or small molecules or drugs as if there were drugs and it could be of course against cancer you can use the immune system but it also incorporates aspects that are not related to cancer so for instance one part of my laboratory we actually discovered really by accident I should say we discovered the stem cells that form cartilage they were not known before cartilage and bone so one one aspect of cellular therapy is regenerative so could you replace cartilage and you know very common disease across the world particular disease of women with an enormous burden is osteoarthritis so we have a big now study going on and trying to use these cells again as pills we've been trying to use pills or drugs to ameliorate osteoarthritis now for decades and really not gotten very far this would be the first time that one uses cellular therapies for regenerating for instance needs that have degenerated you can use cellular therapies to alter for instance you can combine cellular therapies and gene therapies to cure diseases such as sickle cell anemia beta thalassemia and other disease with a huge burden in in in places like India so it is a very broad term but it asks a very simple question which is that the cell is a living obviously a living thing can we use that can we manipulate that living thing in us in such a way that it becomes a therapeutic entity and if you can use that can you use that in the context of not only cancer but also other degenerative diseases so before we go to current which cancers does this bark on and yet in which cancers important cancer it doesn't work so the first cancer is that cell therapies were used for were blood cancers leukemias and lymphomas the very first successful trials were all in blood cancers I just recently profiled for the New York probably the I think she was the seventh patient an eight-year-old girl named Emily Whitehead who had multiple II relapsed with blood cancer and was almost on the verge of dying but she is now fifteen come as far as we know cured he's being monitored very closely but as far as we know cure so it works for blood cancers more recently it has worked for cancers such as lymphomas and myeloma and other cancer with quite a large disease burden in in in places like India where it's not worked effectively thus far is in the so-called solid common solid cancers these would include pancreatic cancer these would include ovarian cancer and many others lung cancer in these cancers they have not been so effective these cellular therapies and one of the most interesting arenas of investigation is why why is it that blood cancers are responsive and why is it that these solid tumors are not responsive and we and others have actually spent some time thinking about this question and trying to rework our ideas and thinking you know maybe we should try different cells maybe we should try different combination of modalities and there's all sorts of ideas about how to get these cell therapies to work in solid tumors solid cancers lung cancer cancers of the pancreas liver and so forth get it you have to pay play double role because you are also a science person by is this all foreign to us in India or is a bug going on in some of these fields in India as well well I think there is a lot of work going on in this whole area of in you know on ecology and cell biology but I would say that we need to really catch up because the reason why Sid and I decided that we needed to do this and needed to basically leverage Science and Technology and take it to the next ready to do what if you can just explain well needed to start a company like what we are doing in India really you need it's because it was very apparent to us that both US and China were the ones who were being you know talked about in this one area of cell therapy and as you just heard from said that I think the fact that you have this wonderful opportunity to look at cancer therapy so differently I just felt we can't be left out of it and with that in mind knowing that we have such a huge cancer burden in this country we had to do something about it because these therapies what Sid didn't talk about was the present cost of actually delivering these therapies in the Western world the cost is absolutely unaffordable in a life more like India it can cost anywhere between 300 thousand to a million dollars per patient and that's not something even the West can afford comfortably so I think it was very apparent to us where when you have these kind of you know almost miracle therapies you know you just heard about this young girl was almost cured today and the fact that these were death sentences up you know up until now and the fact that you can actually then pull them out of that death trap and you know give them another life I think it is just amazing what's happening and I think it's important that for a country like India we have the scientists we science we have the clinicians we have the whole ecosystem that can actually deliver on this therapy so it was important for someone to really make something of this and and with the SIDS help I said well if if you're willing to help I'm willing to basically you know partner you when delivering this therapy to India well not by Indian standards at an affordable cost base because you know nothing is going to be considered affordable in India but certainly we want to bring down those kind of prices I just talked about to a tenth of what it costs in the West so I think that's a huge task ahead for us but I think we are very excited because what we did see is that we do have the capability there are lots of small groups around the country doing work in this particular cell therapy it's for us to now start populating the country with more such groups and we will be one very important group was going to be really focused on taking that living cells that living drug into our patients but I do hope this research in India is better regulated then says stem cell research because lots of freelance arrangements came up there and people started offering stem cell therapy just because there was no regulation no absolutely I think regulations have to be very very well constructed formulated and you know delivered because I think as you very rightly said this is about something about delivering a an altered cell back into the body and it is delivered through a lengthy virus so you have to make very sure that that virus doesn't go off target and starts replicating so there's a lot of quality control it has to be done under the strictest of GMP conditions because you don't want what is really good manufacturing practice because you don't want any contamination to be carried into the patient because we are trying to cure a patient not infect the page with other things so I think it's a it's a very complex you know therapy it's a very challenging therapy but then you know the outcome is so compelling that we have to find a way of delivering it to patients you ever think something well I was saying you know there was this I just wanted to convey to an audience how exciting it is because you forget we're using you know we're using technical terms here and there there's a famous Asimov quote which says that the best science is sometimes almost indistinguishable from magic there is a quality but let me just think about this for a second of the status of medicine in which we extract from the body living cells weaponize them using Lee infect those cells with a virus we grow those living cells in an incubator so that they expand several hundred fold and then we can recollect those living cells that we have now genetically manipulated and put them back into the human body and use that as a drug I mean just I just imagine the excite imagine it should it should really send chills up your spine compared to compare it to most technologies so in terms of medical science what breakthrough you compare this with the discovery of insulin the discovery of antibiotics the discovery of bypass surgery well so you know the certainly and I just wrote a piece about this what's interesting is that this this these therapies what what they're most comparable with his bone marrow transplantation when bone marrow transplantation first appeared in the 1970s and 1980s it was also considered something completely magical or kidney transplantation these therapies sit in between what is the procedure and the pharmaceutical they are procedures that are pharmaceutics and that's why it's very important to considered proceeded in fact we ourselves unlike the rogue stem cell clinics we ourselves have gone to the regulators and said said regulate us we ourselves are going to the regulator's and say inspect us because we want the highest quality of we want the very highest quality of product and there's a there's a there's a danger of of being of this being deregulated and so given those circumstances we've ourselves gone to the to every regulatory body and met them and said look this is our plan because this is not something that you are selling off the shelf this is not a brand yes this is not a brand and doctor is writing and somebody displayed far from it yeah far from it so for each one you have to make this drug so you are in the American environment which also which allows great science but also allows great superstition now we read about the great anti-vaxxers business going on in America people are dying of measles now measles are back so how do you how do you sustain this in such a suspicious environment well look you know in general the there has been there have been so many conspiracy theories and nonsensical theories around cancer that you know you always have to battle as it were the superstitions around cancer treatment in general oh you know it's a conspiracies etc etc but there has never been in the United States or for the matter elsewhere in the world a lack of innovation and it takes time you know you have to this is a this is an active process it takes time to convince people that this can be delivered safely I was telling Karen the recently many many if you might know this in the course of the development of bone marrow transplantation which by now has you know cured several disease several blood diseases including several leukemias when the first were were done 88 patients died it was the 89th patient who lived and then began to show long-term remissions so if you're a doctor or if you are the public you have to have trust in the process of science such that you understand that these patients died either because they had a terminal illness or because the treatment was not successful for what reason what was the reason because everything arises in medicine everything arises as the consequence of the project of reason you have to apply reason to why you fail you have to apply a reason to why you succeed you apply for apply reason to when a patient gets a response but then relapses all of these are if they are done systematically build trust and you know part of the problem I think to be honest with the anti-vaxxer as a medical community had become very complacent about the success of vaccines what we should have been doing is telling people every year year after year is that the reason your child is not you know having horrible diseases such as mumps measles and rubella among other diseases polio is because we have reinvented as humans we invented mechanisms to prevent your child from having these diseases instead it became very routine you know you went to your pediatricians office your pediatrician gave you an injection said now go on right but again I have to convince all of you the excitement that that pervaded the world when the first polio vaccine was successful was just enormous you know children in that in the summers in the United States of course here when when polio would sweep through the through the country they couldn't leave their houses for the entire vacation they would be locked up in their houses in Boston City Hospital you could there was a ward in which there was basically a line of of so-called ventilators because in those days we didn't have positive ventilators there were negative interest these were steel chambers which the children were put into and the steel chambers would expand and contract because they had paralyzed the upper parts of their body during the acute phase of the polio epidemic imagine a row 2030 such incubators with ten-year-old five-year-old children sitting with the steel pieces moving so that they could read and now imagine 10 years 15 years later after the introduction of the vaccine those those incubator you can't even find them you can't even find a picture of them so the idea around the entire anti wax movement was that there was that the nihilism was because I think we failed to convey the excitement and the number of lives saved in the process I know so I'm of the generation that still carries the marks of smallpox vaccine in India now we have the fourth generation being born yeah without the mark for the smallpox vaccine yeah it's a minute coming as I said these are incredible inventions these are inventions that have left their mark on human history and to be complacent about them and worse still to be do do not give the scientists who put their you know blood sweat and tears into this is really doing a disservice to human innovation we were talking today actually and I said you know we were talking to you about how to accelerate the pace of what what we were doing and I just said in science there is no five-day week and in medicine there is no five-day week right in medicine there's always been a seven-day week we have invented a five-day week because you want to take as in journalism at least we pretended to be that way exactly so a so we so it's you know one question was over how can we accelerate it I said make five days into seven days that's already you know you've already gained gained two days of work and that's this that is the fundamental driving spirit of innovation so cannot let me ask you a twin question one what do you have to say for this anti-vaxxer everybody knows who ain t max Elsa these are very powerful lobbies in America and very popular now which are campaigning against vaccine that's why measles are coming back now and large parts of America so what do we have to say to these people to fear science and second science he said is 24 by 7 7 days a week and all that but how do you then combine entrepreneurship and science the right way because the moment that happens then again at the popular level people begin to get suspicious and there's a profit motive or corporates have gotten right so everybody starts getting you to that Monsanto mindset so how do you deal with this so first and foremost I think like girls do not just said I think you need to connect with society I think science need to connect with Society I think scientists NIP need to basically use simple language to communicate the marvels of science to society and I think you know there are umpteen X you know examples of presenting to society why certain things are very compelling I mean I think you know we haven't done a good job about communicating many things I think we go through waves of fabulous innovations in science in medicine and then we start taking it for granted you know this particular cell therapy I mean today we are at the cutting edge right you know in the early stages of this particular cell therapy I mean in in the years ahead I'm sure this will become standard of care but I think every new innovation whether it's a vaccine whether it's bone-marrow transplant whether it's a new drug I mean you know if you look at the hypertensive drugs you look at many many new drugs that have been you know brought about paradigm changes in in in the way we treat diseases I think have you know been very well appreciated in the early entry times but then later they become part of life then you know people then start sort of becoming complacent and you know you have these kind of anti-vaxxers and things like that so I think it's about communication it's about celebrating the miracles of vaccination which we haven't done properly I mean even if you look at the HPV vaccines today this is very important story the post in India which can do so much and yet you have people you know sort of creating all kinds of controversies around it's my bad things can protect women young women from cervical cancer for life and especially in a country like India Lobby the number of the incidence of cervical cancer in India is enormous you know mafia and and as you know there was an in not only not only were the vaccinators people who were advancing the vaccine often thrown out of places there were a couple of people who were killed was it not yeah but but there is a great deal of now kind of Swadeshi opposition also talk about India a conspiracy to bring in one more sort of corporate product into India so what you say about communication is great and that's why say that you are so valuable because you are now making this you are idiot proofing it for people like us otherwise and these days every patient is a doctor people go to a doctor doctor doesn't touch the patient the doctor doesn't feel poke you nothing doctor looks at the scans prescribe something by the time he or she is reading the prescription patient is googling side effects right that's what happens so so it's very important that you be here about cutting-edge research in a manner that we can understand just add one more thing in this particular case you're talking about terminally ill patients right they have no hope left this is giving them the greatest hope and you know you're seeing these wonderful wonderful outcomes in many many patients and another thing I also want to tell you is that everything there is a risk nothing is risk-free and I want people to understand that yeah because justice said that said when you when you started bone-marrow transplants it was the 89th bone-marrow transplant that was successful and you we must understand that even in waxing you know simple things like back vaccinations you know people some people react very very when you synagro so anything can still be fatal absolutely I mean I think qualify can be fatal in great the rarest of rare cases otherwise somebody will take out five seconds Shaco gupta said but i think what is important is any new therapy is inherently risky and therefore we want to do it very carefully in a very informed way and we must you know protect ourselves in every possible way in terms of making sure that it is as safe as it as it can be and as efficacious as it can be so that's why i think it is important for us to remember that this is not a simple drug this is a complex therapy if at the birth of cellular therapy in the united states and in europe was also marked by the by many deaths the FT had to shut down certain certain trials and had to examine them the important thing is is of course if you the legacy of science is a legacy of failure and that legacy the only reason science works is by examining that failure instead of incriminating it and that's very important because if you examine the failures rather than incriminating it of course they're frauds and there there are examples in which the appropriate measures were not taken but when the appropriate when the approach of appropriate risk mitigating measures have been put in place and there's a failure the the there is a the the center the core of innovation is to examine failure rather than incriminate it and you know if you do the opposite if the culture becomes turns into one of incrimination then all innovation dies what innovation and where which culture of innovation has been a risk free culture risk is the center of innovation mitigated risk is the is is the job of scientists and doctors we spend hours and hours and hours of our time thinking before acting and this is part of the reason that this you know complex therapies were born here on the second part of the question you then marry entrepreneurship with this earth because ultimately everything has to scale up to scale up it has to build their economics the moment you do that you run into this wall of suspicion and then you come in to public public health care and private health care and who can afford what equity is equity in health care has now become a global issue I think in America it's going to be a big issue in this election an enormous issue you know going ahead so how do you deal with that so as I said you know for India the model had to be affordable access as much as we could do but what is interesting about the Union is we've created for the first time in the country social capital we've created philanthropy a combination of philanthropic capital and risk capital how are you Danny so the investors in omim Union have been philanthropists have also been VCS who have given this capital to us and I think it's a very very interesting model because remember if a pharmaceutical company had to actually go about starting and you know developing this particular cell therapy to take it to patients I think the upfront investment costs were going to be so huge that I don't think shareholders would have been comfortable with taking that kind of risk if you looked at even a hospital trying to do it as a service they can't because this is too complex or therapy right so therefore it had to be done through creating a fund which was going to be able to do everything we could in the shortest possible time you don't want to take too much time because you are to catch up so part of a part of the fund is philanthropic contributions yes so we have raised the initial startup capital it is a startup I mean for the first time again after many many years I've started my next startup after 40 years so it's a very exciting process for me as well but the interesting thing is this is a very interesting start up because it's about accelerating the you know the the therapy from the cell to the to the patient and I think that is very exciting because we've got a bunch of you know scientists and others who want to really be a part of this journey and I think the investors also are very excited about being part of this very exciting journey because this will put India on the map of cell therapy if we hadn't done this you would have just had a few groups tinkering around here and there but you would not have got to cell therapy get to patients and make that difference can I think that's very very important so we are people I mean I at least know I've had this experience I've basically know what it takes to commercialize such there if not this particular therapy but certainly I've taken risks I know what it takes to take this to patients and I think therefore everyone was engaged with this mission is on a very very noble mission of bringing new cell therapies to patients in India well Karen just given me the cue to do a little bit of self-promotion just as she said she's doing a start-up after 40 years now another startup I have said I will start up after being a journey for 40 years so people do check out the print and do subscribe and do read and like she says she's trying to build as economics I am also trying to build an economics around journalism in India fair and corrects your in Desmond India with the belief that there is no contradiction between good journalism and the marketplace having said that now we have to come to question right hi mom have you please introduce your card for card my name is drunk I do ki Barcelona taki Cambre me up navigator please see me sure 20 up later so basically sir I won't ask more more - Kiran mom so recently that book came about about the generate routes the issues with the generator I'll drop the bottle of the the bottle of lies so what has gone wrong in the Indian pharma industry what do you think it was only company that was not that that came clean in that book was yours and other most of the other companies were named in that book so what has gone wrong and what can you elaborate more on that I guess it's sensational it sells copies but I really don't think I want to comment too much on that I think what that book tells you is how important it is to make sure that you follow the right processes and especially for a therapy like this it's very very important that there are no shortcuts later thank you so much did you want to add something no doctor took this chin up I'm a practicing pediatrician for the last 40 years and much of what you have said is 40 years yeah actually I've actually handled polio babies with iron lungs for a long time when I was a student well as a convention it's a that mentioned that it's not seen any longer I'd only one question which I wanted to ask both of them what would be their ethical challenges in introducing therapy like this compared the West compared to our country because in our country if you look at the HPV trial which was done the basic problem was the ethical challenges because it was a challenge which was done with very bad informed consent and in a vulnerable population so I think those are going to be challenges when you are going to introduce a new therapy like this well you know in the templates for informed consent are already very complex they're especially complex in pediatric cancers because usually the child doesn't give consent it's the parents who are giving consent the capacity of any of this going wrong and in any phase for instance being contaminated or not having a QC release not being able to release it because of quality control so you give the cells we process them but at the end of it nothing comes out because the code doesn't pass the quality control this is a complex idea to convey to the parents of a child that along a child himself or herself how much hope do you give to a child with acute lymphoblastic leukemia who's going to have this therapy how do you explain the fact that maybe in this particular case they did not reach a remission what if they relapse afterwards so the ethical challenges are very much the challenges of medicine the standard challenges of medicine appropriate consent not using this on populations that don't understand the complexity of the challenge and and yet on the other hand making it accessible you don't want to create a barrier to access just because you can't explain complexity of their off day of the entire system they are quite large they are actually not specific to India they're quite wide we will use the best best available practices consenting as you know consenting a child with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia who's two years old - what would amount to two full years of chemotherapy including potentially therapy that's injected into your spine is not easy either how does that child understand that they're going to be that for two years they're going to be confined basically confined to an IV pole and with the possibility of you know of getting painful injections into their spine but those challenges are universal we will try our very best to try to address these ethical challenges some of the challenges are a unique two cell therapies these include the possibility which has which has been noticed that sometimes these cell therapies are so active that they create their own problems not only are they good drugs they're too good drugs in fact one of the reasons that the FDA halted one series of trials the first see one of the C's of trials is that patients were dying not because the drugs were in ineffective they were dying because the drugs were so effective at killing the cancer that as the cancers were melting away in these children and adults the the the body couldn't handle the consequences of the attack on that immune attack on cancer the the the body imagined as if this was an immune attack on itself because of course the cancer is part of the part of the body so all of these challenges have to be handled the appropriate consent forms and the appropriate regulatory forms have to be handled correctly and therefore also the trials that need to be conducted have to be very carefully conducted in India it's a big challenge now because of the suspicions of the past yeah but I think slowly I think we'll realize what a disservice they've done to innovation by banning clinical trials to begin with so I think so the government is now beginning to divide this whole or they are not reverse gate band the band still remains well I think it's the way you interpret it I think they do allow you to carry out clinical trial at night they are still very very nervous about first in human trials and then they have this strange logic that if it's a median Indian drug you can try it but if it's a foreign drug there's a lot of xenophobia about clinical trials so I don't see some of it is of course the history of the colonial experience you know you don't want to and in fact in the United States the history of using African Americans as as trial subjects without appropriate consent the famous they you know there of course there is a there is a rich but can go too far absolutely can go too far the appropriate balance is always the fine point for for innovate before we take that question let me ask you again an idiot-proof in question you say that you take these cells from the body and you vaporize them you make them nice guys you give them nice nice guys you recognize them you you give them the sniper rifles good kill the bad guys so first of all before you insert them back into the body what mechanisms do you have to see that to make sure that they have the right weapon and to that they have the right intentions so can they go inside the body and change their mind or can they become double agents you know body filled with Mata Hari right so as I said I told you I gave you one one extraordinarily important component of this is the so called release criteria so this therapy because once it's inside you can't mess with it well you can there are many ways once they're inside to quieten them down in fact that is the basis and unless you have someone with experience you don't know how to how to silence these cells if they go rogue as but all of this said the first step the first question you asked is that there are ways very stringent criteria by which the cells are released and this is also true by the way for stem cell therapies and should be true for true stem cell therapies bone marrow transplantation is a stem cell therapy and before reom planting before implanting a bone marrow you have to do a thousand things to confirm that you have the right yield that you have the right cells that the cells have come from a right donor that they will not be a mismatch or etc etc etc by analogy by this by the way the same thing is true for any transplantation so by analogy there are a whole set of release criteria and if the release criteria are not met and the product is not released the second fact is that there are all sorts of medicines that are now available that allow us to dampen the immune response if it goes haywire because these weaponized cells are of course can be quite dangerous so the success of the study depends on again the use of the use of medicine and here is where we convert from the science of medicine to the art of medicine the clinicians who have given who give these therapies have to be trained in the art of medicine which may be that you make a decision based on based on very fine-tuned ideas about you know as the is the balance out of control is the immune system now this weaponized immune system is it acting up in the wrong direction should we dampen it to what extent when should we take off those dampeners again this is the art of medicine and this of course requires someone who's quite practiced it's called cytokine release syndrome where your body and your immune system goes hyper but there you know that's why you need a good clinician to actually dampen it and the science of medicine an art of medicine is the fascinating point we'll come back to that question yes a little bit louder no it's working right yeah yeah it's no no it is yeah hi Ravi Narayan I run a software company I had a software company here in India so I'm a novice to most of the life sciences but I have a question and this is - you know Karen mentioned that there is risk and everything and that is true but as a discerning member of the public I think we owe it to ourselves to assess and quantify risk in any decisions that we take so to that end I have a question about I have a few questions about how how do we quantify risk so for example is this some is this a therapy that's been FDA approved and secondly what is the hit rate of the success rate of patients I heard one example but are there numbers to quantify success rate as it is today I guess it's in the u.s. it doesn't sound like it's been introduced into India yet and to build on what Shekar had mentioned earlier how targeted is it so we know that cancer cells the current therapies on cancer cells are not very targeted so radiation or chemotherapy definitely affects the good cells as well and leaves you a pretty impoverished at the end even if you succeed in fighting the cancer so how targeted and how selective is this therapy so three questions I guess thank you the first point is that two such drugs this year it is likely to approve two or three further such drugs the success rate depends on the particular drug so they range from in just to give you some range or some sense of what the range might be in multiple myeloma first of all remember almost always we talk about risk mitigation virtually all these trials have been run on patients who have worked terminally ill so their chances of death are virtually a hundred percent they approach between 90 to 100 percent so to give you Emily whiteheads Emily whiteheads case in the absence of car t-cell therapy t-cell therapy her mortality rate would have was a hundred percent she had failed or gone through two attempted bone-marrow transplants and both of them had not worked she was now in full-blown leukemic phase I'm so Hamid ality rate was 100% so therefore the risk mitigation becomes quite extreme because you are facing the possibility of a mortality rate of 100% in an eight-year-old child 2 versus whatever experimental viewers of course an experimental subject so just to give you a sense of what those numbers look like in multiple myeloma now with the new drug that will almost certainly be approved by the FDA you take patients with again mortality rates in the 90 80 percent and about 80% will achieve a remission which is already a big step and off that 80 percent on the order of 50 or 60 percent so give or take about 50 percent in total of people who had a hundred percent mortality rate are alive at two to three years now this is a continuing process two to three years is already quite a large period of time so and some of them have been alive now for five six years we saw this paradigm evolve when the first targeted therapies also came around that's over time we got more and more comfortable with them the one key thing one key factor is you have to realize that cancer is a first of all is an evolutionary disease in the sense it follows the laws of evolution and natural selection you know it is like watching Darwin's Galapagos Island in a perverse form inside your body because the cancer cells are constantly evolving your body is constantly evolving in response to it so therefore any therapy for cancer is really a mathematical game a mathematical game between the cancer and and and and you so when you use when you apply any therapy in cancer it really depends on the numbers if you're trying to use the therapy to kill one billion cells then it means that 1 billion cells have the opportunity to become resistant and therefore cause relapse if you use the same therapy on one thousand cells then you have only one thousand possibilities that the cells will become resistant and relapse finding the right point as it were between the one thousand cells and the one billion cells where the risk is exactly appropriate where the risk becomes because all therapy scary risk where the risk becomes appropriately mitigated is of course an extremely important question and the only way we can answer that question is using science is using reasonable non anecdotal evidence and that's why we undergo clinical trials and try to find the so-called sweet spot in which you apply the therapy which has toxic consequences and it's expensive to the right kind of patient and we've done this over and over and over again in the history of cancer I just want to say that look I think you know cancer is such a disease that you have to keep innovating you have to keep trying new treatments I think any cancer patient will know that the the moment they are not responding to one drug they want to try something else so this is one disease that needs constant innovation and I think we mustn't forget that so I think when you keep on looking at that mathematical question of risk and you know show me that this is going to work and I'll show me that I'm not taking a risk I don't think cancer patients ask that kind of question I think cancer patients want hope cancer patients want to try any new experimental drug that will save them I think that's what it's about so those who talked about this tussle between the body and the cancer cells or did or the treatment of cancer cells your new book is gene do cells or gene also have does it gene or a cell have a mind of its own no nor is it a bot it's neither a bot nor does it have a mind of its own it's and you know these are obviously living elements so it doesn't change its mind it just mutates physically mind is a is it is its own unique thing but cells are living things and as living things they're malleable they have the capacity the most important capacity is that they have they have adaptability and evolutionary adaptability by adaptability it means that they can change their internal software which is and and once they change their internal software they can use that change in the internal software to live in different environments to do different things that's the change in the software and if you want to continue that analogy they can also change their internal hardware which would be their genes the DNA and thereby become altered so a cell could be imagined I mean you know this was of course the a very insightful idea that was brought into biology from physics a cell is really a correlated version of information you can think of cells in many different ways but a cell is an information processing machine it is a living machine but is an information processing machine it takes in information from the environment and it puts out information to the environment now as I said there's a software component to it the cell can we adapt the software of internal software and change itself so that it can now operate in different ways and in certain circumstances it can change its internal hardware that would be that would be genes mutate that hardware and then acquire different characteristics hi my name is by Rho V and that was thank you for a very fascinating forget it what you do tell it by Ruby and what do you do so I'm an entrepreneur in the field of health care and I think this is a very fascinating and important discussion that we need to have but I write to come back to other thing that you mentioned earlier which is you know the importance of effective communication and if you consider the fact that in India we see many more cases of advanced disease as compared to you know early stage illness and also if you consider the continuum of cancer care the problem really begins at the at the beginning which is you know prevention and screening so I just wondered what your thoughts were about you know effective strategies for overcoming sort of the stigma associated with screening for cancer and how we can address that problem in a in an effective way in both the urban and rural populations yeah I mean so I mean to be very very clear if you wanted to have if you wanted to have public health impact in virtually every disease the public health impact has occurred from prevention and not so and not from other modalities so the primary effort of offer of the off seeing a public health response in cancer will come from cancer prevention it's really a pyramid and one should imagine the pyramid carefully and think about the pyramid carefully the bottom of the pyramid is prevention cancer prevention and over the years usually that task has been taken over by governments that is thus that is best assigned to governments because they have the capacity to change the social milieu as it were such that you can in advance cancer prevention campaigns our government has done in the Indian government is done quite a poor job for instance in tobacco control which would be a simple mathematical ISM of cancer prevention we gave a couple of other examples human papillomavirus vaccination would be a would be an example in which you could potentially eradicate cervical cancer or tobacco control program would reduce the risk of lung cancer by factors of 10 fold or 20 fold as we've seen in the United States and other places so that is the base of the pyramid the second layer of the pyramid is early detection as you're talking about finding cancer in its early phases and there usually there is a I would say a public and private partnership that works effectively the problem in with cancer prevention early detection is that our mechanisms of early detection of cancer are still in their infancy so aside from a few cancers which we can name breast cancer through mammography colon cancer through colorectal cancers through colonoscopy and other screening methods and two or three others we really don't have very effective cancer screening mechanisms early cancer detection mechanisms and that's a problem because as I said if it's a numbers game then the earlier you detect the cancer and apply the therapy whatever the therapy might be then of course the better the outcomes are so here is this is an area that is rich extremely rich for investigation and there have been a number of groups that have deepened their investigation into how to do this prevention and early detection in fact our group itself has changed one part of our group has focused now on metabolism and diet which we hadn't really which way did not before we had a big paper out in nature which is widely covered in which we use diet and chemotherapy in combination for cancer therapeutics the final phase of the pyramid as it were is cancer treatment and if you look at cell therapy that's the pinnacle of that final phase because of the complexity of the treatment but you have to remember that all of this is part of the ecosystem of cancer you learn about cancer prevention from cancer treatment you learn about cancer treatment from cancer prevention this all forms a kind of ecosystem and when it's successful you can see you can begin to see public health impact on cancer you know not not to the satisfaction of everybody this is a disease that we all dread but certainly in places like the United States cancer specific mortality has decreased by about one to two to three percent every year since there has been decreasing since I would say since the 1950s and that's been a real that's been a success story you might say one to two percent a year is not that great but cumulated across 20 30 years you get a 20 30 percent decrease in certain cancers some cancers have been very resistant to being amenable to therapy pancreatic cancer being one of them gall bladder cancers being one of them liver cancers and so forth have been very resistant others such as breast cancer transport transformation we are now seeing 30 40 year survivors of breast cancer we are seeing Daniel survivors of metastatic breast cancer breast cancer that spread outside the best we are seeing 10-year survivors of metastatic colorectal cancer cancer that spread outside the colon or the rectum so in some cases the effect has been transformative we are seeing 40 year survivors 50 are survivors of childhood leukemia so it really varies but but the effect has been present and and there in in most cancers hi my name is Sujata I'm a trained a monologist and I haven't practiced in the last 12 years but I've just written a book on preventive health and my question is about Ayurveda since you're doing this trial in India and I'm sure it's not part of the plan right now but is there a plan to use Ayurvedic medicine as at John 30 to support the side effects that can be explained I don't know if you have such a plan I mean right now we're in in the you know right now and we're in the infancy where we're making lentivirus in in sterile containers and infusing them into t-cells how we how we ultimately deploy these therapies and use adjunct therapies to palliate and to palliate symptoms and for symptom relief is aid is it is certainly a downstream consideration but right now we're in the thickets of the woods as they say we're in the thickets of the woods I our conversations are around you know how many particles of lentivirus I go are you going to use Purcell where is this cell going to be grown and what are the quality control release factors that will allow us you know should we do flow cytometry or qPCR to figure out whether the virus has gotten into the cell or not so your questions are very relevant to patients but right now whereas it's as it were we are in the middle of the thickets of the woods and we'll your questions will become relevant once we have the first patients that we've given therapy to let me ask you a question and the other side of the same question to you what do you find if you were had a choice would you be an entrepreneur or would you be a researcher in the same field well I think entrepreneur and who invest invest some time in news media startups all do have to choose between being an entrepreneur and a researcher well you can say you can pick both yeah well I sort of have to take both one of the life cycles I have to say that for it the particular person that or the particular niche that I inhabit is a so called translational researcher this was an idea dreamt of in the 1950s that someone would have to take all these astonishing ideas that were emerging from the science of biology and apply them and make human medicines so there would be a translator between one and the other and if you'd imagine medicine as relay race the baton would be passed from basic science to people like me and then would be passed on from me to clinicians who would then deploy the medicines into humans there is no greater joy that one can experience as a translational researcher than to see a medicine that you have dreamt up one morning that you made a diagram of one morning you woke up one morning and you wrote down on a sheet of paper this is going to be a medicine a human medicine to watch that human medicine come alive and treat a human being there is no greater joy and I would say I would make the argument there is no greater joy that anyone can experience period you cannot experience this joy unless you've done it yourself you have taken you have applied you've taken the the you've taken the benefits of reason the the the great that the great revolution that was handed to us from the Renaissance all the way you've taken that idea put it down on a piece of paper drawn a diagram brought it to a laboratory and made a human medicine out of it and watched a human being being cured of a lethal or a non lethal disease I would say there is no greater joy you cannot feel the shivers with any other form of any other form of activity there's nothing else that that compares it's like it is like the highest it is like a kind of it is like feeling a kind of it is the highest high that you can feel and you cannot imagine I can't even convey to you as we make medicines I've now made several several are in trials several are in I cannot convey to you the quality of the joy but we can feel it if we can feel it in your voice yes now I know that we are running out of time but I can't not have a question from and they are amazed Sandia is our science editor we have a very strong and very extensive science section she runs it from Bangalore my question is in terms of both the current political climate in the US as well as for the Cancer Research community what is the scientific consensus and also your personal opinion on the use of marijuana and CBD to work with the side effects of cancer treatment well as you know I mean you know the u.s. is going through some important internal reflection about the use of both marijuana and CBD CBD has to be evaluated properly the effectiveness of CBD has to be valid properly the use of marijuana in palliative care has been established but whether it should be you know how to regulate it how appropriately to regulate it has been a big concern as you as you very well know recently there were 450 odd cases in which the vaping of whether it was marijuana or marijuana laced products or other products have caused lung diseases so every time you every time you open up the channels for for the use of for the use of a substance like marijuana you have the you have to pay very careful consequences and the CDC has been following this as Center for Disease Control has been following this very carefully so we'll see how it turns out CBD is under evaluation so we don't know yet so you have any closing comments before we go this is a very exciting phase for all of us at immunity secondly I think in cancer therapy itself I think we are at the cutting edge and it's great to be you know bringing that to India and I think we need to really make sure that people support this kind of research both in the laboratories and in industry and I think that's extremely important and you are still hoping that clinical trials that the rules relax a bit more well I'm very confident that it will relax it has to happen so thank you very much it's been a great conversation I know this can go on but this is Bangalore you also need three hours to reach home so we let you go but you know just a thought as you go away just think about all the treatments that we take for granted today and just think them or Google when was the first time such a thing happened I can tell you a simple thing like a laparoscopic surgery on a torn ligament of the knee it didn't happen until 35 years ago the first heart bypass for just over 40 years ago yeah just over 40 years ago anybody over 50 right now in India does not carry those two small pox or three small pox scars that my generation does so then some things when a breakthrough comes it scales up really fast and it scales up so fast that after a while you forget but it happened and I'll give you a real-life experience I have a tough time this is my this is the anniversary of the 65 or etcetera etcetera so history comes back and now with this government a lot of the history is being revised so how did Lal Bahadur Shastri die but if he had a heart attack why could they have done to him in Tashkent all the stuff that we do this do these days for heart attack to tell people there was nothing for a heart attack in 1966 there was no bypass there was no NGO I'm not even sure there were proper ECGs at that time because we all now take it all for granted so I think this also this is a new idea I think very few people have it but then it's Cales up then the economies of scale will build up and I think you might be looking at one more miracle and I hope both of you are right and wish you want this ship all success [Applause] you let me make from IFL just come in for a quick felicitations and our team picture our team is just five officers meeting Jesus see I spared you the flow thing to the camera VG's off yeah sure

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: yNlRE2WmcQc (https://youtu.be/yNlRE2WmcQc) ===

Well, I loved your first book, The Emperor of All Malades. I was excited to see you found time to write another one. The first book, there's a long sort of history of trying to understand cancer. But this book, Gene, is more about the future than than 50% of this book is in the future. What happens now that that the human genome has become mostly readable? The central question in this book is, you know, when a machine starts to understand its own code of instructions, what happens to that machine? Does it change its code of instructions? Does it learn to limit those changes? Is that limiting of the instructions part of the instructions themselves? That's the central sort of animous of this book. Yeah. To me, that's such a fascinating question because it would almost seem cruel not to fix cystic fibrosis or a variety of even more rare diseases. I think these are powerful technologies and dangerous technologies and the conversation has to be quite wide. But now the technologies are getting to the place where that's going to become technologically possible I would imagine in the next 10 odd years. Most of the stuff you hear about is is pretty much on the side that you consider positive like the disease type editing for our patients. I can see a road map in which the use of gene editing technologies could have therapeutic implications. One that's of interest to our foundation is HIV. Although a very tough one that's probably pretty far off is whether you could edit people's immune cells so that they're cured of HIV. Again, the questions are scalability, you know, how expensive is it going to be? And the perennial question, what are the offtarget effects? Are there unintended consequences that we don't know yet? We will know at least for some cohort of of human beings as early as 2 to 3 years. And what percentage of your cancer patients now would have some type of sequencing done to to help guide their treatment? So for blood cancer, I would say some type of sequencing. I would say it's coming up to about 89%. And that's because in some cases you'll actually change the treatment, which drugs or how you go about it based on that data. That's right. That field is in its infancy. Um, and I think there's been a lot of hype around that field. Being able to use genetic and genomic information from a tumor and using that to understand therapy or to direct therapy, I think is an idea which has deep biological justification. It hasn't come about yet because the technologies aren't there yet. So, we shouldn't be selling the idea as it were. Uh, it's a research project, but it's a very valid research project. It's one of the most valid research projects in cancer. We need all our skills, all our wits to understand what happens once we start changing or beginning to change the instructions with which were built.
