

=== VIDEO: w2c6V2_NEbI (https://youtu.be/w2c6V2_NEbI) ===

Let's talk about the debates. So, I don't know if you're still doing these, but you definitely had a a span of time where you were actually inviting a lot of vegans to >> Yeah. Well, yeah. I mean, well, they it was it was these vegans were like calling me out and saying, "You won't debate us or something like that." Okay, whatever. Come on. So, yeah, I did a couple of those. Yeah. There was uh I can't remember one guy. There was this guy. I can't remember that like Neutra Neutravore guy or something like that. That guy. >> Oh, yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. and he was like and he wanted No, there was another guy. Oh, so here's what there was this James I think his name was James Aspie and he's like a vegan activist and he you know was calling me an idiot and you're an awful guy and you were scared to debate me and I'm like I don't care go ahead you know. So, I got him and he asked this neutravore guy to come in with them and they were going to debate me and and it was just it was just it was the funniest damn thing because they were talking to me about killing animals and I had said, you know, you probably kill less lives when you eat cows than you do chickens. And the guy was like, you can you prove to me that there are, it was like, I'm not empirically convinced that a cow has more meat than a chicken or something like that. It was some absolutely ridiculous like like I said, I think you probably kill less animals if you eat beef than you do if you eat chicken because cows are bigger than chickens. And he was like, I don't empirically believe that's true. I said, "You don't believe that a cow is bigger than a chicken?" And then I had this other lady who was uh she was she oh, she was a militant vegan. And this woman was, you know, I I said, "Hey, welcome to the show." You know, whatever. And from that second on, she literally just screamed at me for like 30 minutes. It was just her screaming. I said, "Well, okay, we'll do that." And it was just like, "Okay, well, you you are probably harming veganism by just doing what you're doing." So, yeah, we've done a couple funny funny debates. And then I think the second time I was on Rogan, Rogan actually pulled up one of those videos of this wacko Neutravore guy and I think he ended up shutting down all the social media out of out of embarrassment or something like that. >> Yeah. >> The Do you do you comment that much though when you get into these debates on like say the ethics or anything with regard to animal sourced foods? Uh, I mean I will I'll try to, you know, I mean, you know, you know, over the screaming and yelling that they're doing it. But yeah. Yeah. I mean I, you know, I just, you know, I I think the one the one thing that was was ridiculous. It was like I said, you know, let's just say that um you've got a a a little rabbit sitting in the road and you got a little human baby sitting in the road and you're driving down the road at 60 mph and you got to swerve one way or the other. You're going to miss one of them, right? You're going to hit a baby. you're going to you're in a human baby or a little rabbit kind of problem, >> right? Right. Right. And the the vegan lady was like, "If that baby is a bad baby, maybe it's baby Hitler. I'm hitting the baby." I said, "Well, how do you know it's baby Hitler? How do you know what the But anyway, it was it's just the ethics stuff is kind of weird, you know. It's kind of really, you know, because, you know, obviously if you eat a plant-based diet, you're still killing animals and you can you can argue about how many and what what the numbers are and To be specific, what you're talking about is what they would often refer to as like industry deaths, which is if you're if you're hitting crop land, you know, there's still rabbits in the field, there's gophers, there's uh mice. >> Well, you know, just to prepare the field, like if you know, if you're if you're Yeah. I mean there yeah obviously some of those getting a lot of those getting killed but I mean just the fact that we're spraying four quadrill four quadrillion animals and insects are killed every year in the harvest you know because insects are a lot of them but but yeah I mean it's like there are clearly you know there's no this sort of there's no guilt on my plate or I'm you know I'm eating this vegan meal and it's there's no death involved and I think that's just sort of very polyianaish and it's just like you don't understand the the the actual uh realities of growing crops, you know, because when they grow a field of strawberries, the only thing that grows in there is strawberries. So, everything else has been basically nuked to allow those strawberries to grow. So, every worm and mouse and gerbble and cockroach and bee and fly and birds that eat those have to be killed in order to raise those with strawberries. So it's like, you know, again, but that's not an argument I really care much about. I mean, I just, you know, I'm I'm more concerned about human beings that are sick as a physician that have Crohn's disease and also colitis and rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis and suicidal uh depression that I can get those people better by feeding them, you know, basically a bunch of meat, which is kind of interesting. So with the appropriate caveat that the things you're listing off uh and the things I want to have you list more of are broadly anecdotal anecdotally there are quite a lot like you just mentioned right what yeah >> what would you say are some of the more interesting examples that you've observed over time >> oh gosh yeah yeah there there are you know and again I've got if you go to carnivore.diet diet. I've got I've got well over a thousand uh testimonials, interviews that I've done, you know, of of people with that. And so, I mean, broadly, I mean, obviously, um so the question becomes to me, what conditions are critically dependent upon perhaps a carnivore diet, right? Whereas you could say, I could go on I can go on a Mediterranean diet, low calorie diet. Because we often hear this, well, you if you just stop eating crap and cut your calories, you're going to get the same result. And I would say emphatically, no, that's not the case. Because I've seen thousands and thousands of patients where they've already done those things and and they didn't resolve until like, you know, our friend Amber Hearn would be an example of that. Um yeah I mean there's there's I mean broadly there are uh you know cardiumabolic issues you know like diabetes, obesity, uh metabolic syndrome, hypertension uh there are all kinds of uh uh in inflammatory conditions like particularly like IBD and arthritis uh that have responded. That's what that's what our company Rivero does. We deal we deal with cardio metabolic disease and inflammatory disease and autoimmune disease autoimmune conditions um Crohn's disease ulcer of colitis psoriasis rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis myosinia gravis uh Hashimoto thyroiditis um uh >> I mean you just listed off a bunch of like rheumatoid arthritis is a great example I I regularly hear from people who suffered with it that it's just a suck it up thing. you just got to kind of you have it. I've heard this with Crohn's disease as well that there's just no, you know, there's you can work with it via medication. Um, but like carnivore diet I've never heard mentioned before, but it makes sense as a as a possibility and maybe for many it does work, you know. >> Well, you know, the same s the same sort of scenario with with this lie mass hyperresponder, you know, how many of those will go on to get cardiovascular? We don't know. The same thing with with say Crohn's disease with carnivore. I've got a lot of patients probably close to hundreds right now that have put their Crohn's disease in quote unquote full remission with with diet whether it's carniv typically it's carnivore to start with and and for often for for a long time and then then they have some some capacity to relax that a little bit. And I'm all I'm all for that. I'm happy that they can they can they don't have to be as strict. But I mean the question becomes if I take a 100 people with Crohn's disease and I put them on a carnivore diet, how many of those will respond? How many of those will have significant improvement? How many of those will get full remission? I don't know the answer to that. The only way to know that would be obviously to do a randomized control trial, you know, but again, you know, the limiting factor there is who's going to fund it. It's cost a lot of money to do those studies. And if you don't have uh the potential to make a billion dollars in profit on a on a new immune modulating drug pill, no one wants to fund those studies, right? Because they're just why why why would I fund a study like that? What what would I get out of it? I don't get anything out of it. I don't get any money from that. So, I mean, this is this is a problem we run into across the board. And you know, it's not anything. But so, again, you're stuck with social media. You're stuck with uh you know, citizen science. You're stuck not that I don't want to diminish that. I mean, it's wonderful doing here. >> You're you're But >> yeah, >> your point's well taken in that if it weren't for social media, there's just no way. There's no way I would have gotten this study together. >> No, of course not. Yeah. No one had heard about it. No one. The re, you know, it's not like I invented a carnivore diet. I mean, you know, I helped to popularize it. I helped to name it, but you know, 50 years ago, you know, we already had this. And what happened? You know, a few people talk about it. it might get laughed at in some some some uh uh you know medical society meeting and a few people do it and then it goes this way. But now with social media, we've got this unfortunately the virality of it the but but then the nonsense that that follows it happens. But yeah, we're we're trying to do serious things in a in a in a somewhat semi-serious environment, right? >> How many people work for Rivera right now? Uh well I mean if we look at our you know if our if we include the clinicians I mean we've we've got a couple engineers we've got an ops team we've got uh probably uh clinicians and coaches probably 50 or 60 total right now. >> Wow. >> Yeah. So >> yeah I remember you invited me on and this was I want to say four years ago, five years ago or something in its previous incarnation and it was a it was a Zoom call. >> Yeah. And there was a bajillion people on like I was okay >> I was like wow this is an entire ecosystem and this is like the largest Zoom call I'd ever been on even though it was for a private >> um presentation >> but I also remember distinctly getting really intelligent questions. So it was not there there's you know a spectrum with regard to many patients who still you know were at the 101 stage but somewhere fairly far along in trying to understand it. Do so do you end up with a clients you end up with a lot of clients that are across that spectrum of where they're >> well I mean I'll tell you the nice thing and and this is for you know you know again I am so just to be clear I am not directly doing medical care with these patients I we have physicians that do that on our on our team that that that do the day-to-day stuff I do have a meeting I have a couple meetings a week where all the patients participate it's a zoom call situation so it's just kind of like broad broad type stuff. But the nice thing really is and and you know a lot of people that seek out what we do are motivated which is tremendously exciting as a physician because as an orthopedic surgeon the only people that came to me they had to be there. They didn't want to they didn't go I want to go see the orthopedic surgeon. That's cool. They broke their freaking leg or they got a you know they got horrible arthritis. They they're not happy to be there. But now the patients are happy to be there. They're excited. They're like they want to go on this journey. They're like, "Man, I can I'm empowered." Now, when you go to a doctor, you're you're dis it's the opposite of being empowered. You're disempowered. The only reason you're there is because you broke your leg and this is a guy that can fix you, you know, >> and and it's already kind of a bad association setup, right? Like >> kind of. Yeah. I mean, there's I mean, you know, I don't want to crap on the medical industry completely. I mean, there's some great doctors in there and wonderful, intelligent, caring people in in medicine for sure. But I mean again, most of the patients are there because they have to be there. You don't go to the doctor because it's a fun fun experience. >> No, but that's what I'm speaking to is there is there's the the association is, oh, I've got to go back to this place because I'm dealing with this problem. I can't wait until I don't have to. >> Yeah. >> Right. >> Yeah. Yeah. But but you know what we have is a very different situation now. The patients like you said, you have intelligent people that are that are active participants. uh not not unwilling captives is kind of the different it's a different vibe in many ways which is which is a lot of fun for physicians because when you know when you spend much of your career taking care of people that one don't want to be there and two the outcomes are not you know not not to say they're bad outcomes but I mean a lot of medicine is just you as you know disease management and sort of you know just sort of managing decline Whereas what we're doing now is sort of hopefully is is generally empowering people and seeing not decline but incline which I think is I think is really fun. That makes that makes that puts the fun back in medicine. I there there's a there's a discussion I will never forget where I was chatting with somebody who had gone and I think he is mostly carnivore but we were we were talking about the cholesterol and his cholesterol levels were super super high and he was I want to say 65 or 66 something like that but his whole life he had been pretty couchbound like he just was struggling with it forever and I won't say what his uh condition was but he was managing this condition required a lot of meds etc. He finds himself now in a place where that got what that got mostly if not entirely resolved dietarily but his cholesterol is through the roof and I'm chatting with him because of just how high it is. I'm going you know I want to be good and just just tell you this is uncharted territory. We don't know what we don't know etc etc. He he just kind of just interrupts and he goes, "Listen, I'm about to do a marathon for the first time with my son and my grandson, and I'm just going to tell you upfront that I don't even care if this is a big cardiovascular disease risk because I've never been able to do anything like this before." And it's and I don't want to make light of that as though that should be the attitude other people should have, but it but it speaks to what you were just describing on how much people suddenly get activated, particularly if they're experiencing life in the way that they had been longing to for so long. And now I've gotten there, it's like, ah, I've unlocked this door that I've been pounding on this whole time. And now all of these possibilities exist that just weren't there before. Yeah, that's what I that's what I a lot of times because I like I said I have a I have Zoom calls with the Rivera patients twice a week generally um and I try to talk to them about you know we're going to open a door for you but it's still you know incumbent upon you to step through that door. So you know and and this is what I kind of talked about in in the in the lecture I gave yesterday at the COSI. I said, 'Look, you know, diet can do some things for you and it might give you this opportunity that you never could have had before, but then you have to do some more to get there. And and the thing is, it's nice to see when people make that decision. And a lot of it becomes uh sort of a mindset thing. It's like a shift in mindset, you know, because a lot of times you see that when they when they go from being sick and dependent and and and hurting and suffering to to not that, then then it it totally changes who they are. I think that's really cool to see uh for a lot of people. Um but yeah, there's uh you know, you actually see you know, you see that within and you know, you said I've got you know, my LDL cholesterol is 5600. God, what do you do with those people? You know, it's like, you know, because it again, this is why what you're doing is so valuable.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Qqq_SoKBbx4 (https://youtu.be/Qqq_SoKBbx4) ===

that people would get this new lease on life but run into the same problem I did and that their cholesterol would go up. >> Every single story matters if you've healed [music] anything. >> Imaging is the gold standard. You can just look at the disease yourself. Treatment resistant and that is code for [music] our treatments don't work or didn't work for you. title of this film you just watched is cholesterol in surgery which makes it seem like the star of the show or the main subject is last and in a way it is but really the main topic of this show of the film the people we see here and the people you saw in this film the people who changed their lives from poor chronic or poor incurable illnesses and changed their lives for the better through the ketogenic intervention only find out and then he was sort of lost in a way because there wasn't science there wasn't really knowledge or exper much much experience in this area um but now thanks to members here for the Q&A thanks to this documentary and so much of work we have the beginnings of that and so with all those people who are changing their lives we have a place to direct them um so I am thrilled to be here today to be able to interview Dave Felman brought its and that was it. [applause] Of course, they really need no introduction, but Dave Felman, the dad engineer who reversed his insulin resistance with diabetes with ketogenic diet, see his LDL, who was not going to sit idly by and say, "Well, I guess let's deal with that." But had to dig in and sort of reverse engineer it like he does everything. So, and then of course the star of the show Robin Dobbins who put her bipolar disorder into remission with ketogenic diet and as you saw really changed not just her life but whole her whole family's life uh with the LBL [snorts] 300s calc and then of course Matt Bazuchi who was it a fiveyear journey of bipolar disorder um and was told he had treatment resistant bipolar disorder but his mom Gamuzuki family were not going to again sit by and just let that happen. He kept digging till they found something and a ketogenic intervention helped turn his life around. He gave him his life back and the remarkable change. So, let's start making that um you know that term treatment resistant. I want you to sort of think back to that point in your life when you were told you were treatment resistant. What did that mean for you for your self-worth? Your thoughts of the future or could you even think about that? Yeah, nice softball question. Thank you. Um, so we we tried dozens of medications, dozens of doctors. I had four episodes of psychosis from 2016 to 2018. And we we tried everything. We tried TMS, transcranial magnetic stimulation, acupuncture. I mean, all the antiscychotics, mood stabilizers, bzzoazipines, anti-vulsant medications. Nothing worked for me. and I was still struggling with my mental health. I couldn't make an appointment to go to the dentist because my my brain just wasn't working. And so we got that information from my psychiatrist at the time. Treatment resistant. And that is code for our treatments don't work or didn't work for you. That's not code for I wasn't trying the treatments because I was exercising, physical exercise. I was taking meds as prescribed and doing therapy, but I was still very sick. And then of course when I went on keto in 2021, my mood just became stable, just completely stable. It's remarkable. It's inexplicable. So it's really just means their treatments failed me. It's not that I didn't fail the treatment. >> So what was that moment like though when you said, "You know what? I think I'm well. I think I'm treated. I think I'm put that behind me." What was that feeling like for you? >> Yeah. I I had gone manic every March into a manic episode. That's when the days are becoming longer rapidly at the spring equinox. And I went on the ketogenic diet in January. And then I went through that March completely stable mood on a low dose of antiscychotic, 25% the antisycchotic dose I would I had had to take in previous years. And I think my mom and my dad and I knew at about the 8 10 week mark something miraculous was happening my with my mood because I was sleeping through the night for the first time in four years. Yeah, it's a remarkable story and you want to see more about it. It's on medical so much of your your story that you've shared. So, thank you for sharing all that. Now, Robin, when you sit in the audience and you watch documentary and you see the interview with your dog about what life was like when you were sick and see the pictures that we How do you feel about that now looking back? >> I know it's the truth. So it doesn't I mean it hurts. I can't go back. It changed what we went through. Um and I will say she first she saw the film in Vegas the first time it came out. So the the first version of the film and she b to tears when she saw when she said my mom wasn't around because it hurt her so much to have to say that. She felt like she hurt my feelings and I was like, Laura, no, that's the truth. And it's important that you share that truth with everyone. Um, so yeah, it hurt. It hurt for to watch it. It still hurts to watch. Um, but I can seek a lot of soloulless in the fact that since I've changed the way I eat and since I feel so much better now that we've been able to build our relationship and I'm like her go-to now, like she comes to me. I I've recently been traveling all over the country to watch screens and she'll call me on the way home from school and just want to tell me about her day or something that went on in her life. And you know, I'm I think before I had seen this treatment, I I think as soon as she turned 18, she probably would have left the house and my son would have already been gone and they wouldn't want to come back. And now she's 18 and she wants to talk to me and I'm part of her life. And so I know I can't change those things, but it it it it gives me a lot of joy to know that I had the opportunity to fix that and to heal all of those wounds. Things can still bubble up, but that's life. And we have now learned how to communicate with one one another and how to just just be with each other. And I can't sit on the floor and play with her anymore because she doesn't want to sit on the floor and play. But if she wanted to, I totally would sit on the floor and play with her and I won't get in the car with her. She drives and I don't want to be in the car with her. So there's I have I do have lines that I won't cross. >> My teenager just got the license. So I hear you for sure. Uh and and Dave, I mean so much of your journey is characterized in in this film that you've seen so many times, but I want you to think back to sort of when this all started too when you were dealing with your own health issues and what do you feel about sort of the guidance you were given versus the guidance you found? When you think about that, like how do you sort of think about that in your mind? >> Yeah. I I think what's so fascinating for me is that and I I mean this sincerely, I feel like my story is so much less remarkable with regard to how my low carb journey started because as I mentioned, you know, diabetes was rampant on my dad's side of the family. It's the disease of not just my family, but of so many others. And I just had pre-diabetes. I just had the an A1C of 6.1, which I think is notable. But I hadn't, for example, like my panelist dealt with years of something debilitating that would draw me towards a ketogenic diet. I just wanted to get my A1C down a little bit. For me, a lot of it was hearing these other stories that people would get this new lease on life but run into the same problem I did and that their cholesterol would go up. That's been a lot of the rocket fuel for me is that if it was just about dealing with my own A1C, well, problem solved and I could just leave it at that. But the story I talk about with Matt in the film, I talk about that little toddler. I'll never forget it because it's when I first classified lean mass hyperresponders. Up until that point, it was an interesting curiosity. And then I'm literally having a another a doctor who's actually writing me, him and his wife and their toddler is dealing with epilepsy and they're thriving on a ketogenic diet. And this is a very real decision that they were trying to determine was their their team, but particularly the um um the pediatric uh doctor was saying you may want to consider brain surgery. It's there's some risks, but to be sure, it's a lot more seriously useful and doesn't have the risk on the cholesterol. Like it literally cholesterol was part of that conversation. And I mean that that had a profound effect on me where at that point I was I was thinking that this we really do need to get these answers as soon as possible. I'd like to be able to get it to this family. I'd like to get to everybody who is experiencing this. >> I mean, that's dramatic. Do you think about that many brain surgery rather than having the high cholesterol controlling your future features? That is a little mind-blowing. >> And I I never feel like I can say this enough, Brett, and I'm sure you'll agree with me on this. I really do believe many of these doctors who are considering these options are genuinely well-meaning. They really do believe that these are real options and that they are removing this risk of super high cholesterol. But if that's all they can ever see it as, and like I say in the film, as though it is the disease to have high cholesterol, then it's understandable why they come to these conclusions. And I think a big part of the jerby is that so many doctors are just unaware about the benefits of ketogenic interventions, which is what this film highlights so well. And they're unaware of so many of just specifics of their I mean they're anger based, right? And and what you'll hear a lot of them say is, "Well, yeah, it might work for a short time, but nobody can stick with it. It's just impossible to stick with that." I've heard so many doctors say that. So So Matt, I'm sure you have been told that many times. I I would Yes. And And how do you respond to that since you've been doing it for so many years now? >> You mean when doctors tell me why are you doing this or why do you stick with it? Can't stick with it long term. It's too hard to do. >> Yeah. Well, people will stick with this and it's really that sixmon to a year hump to get over the transition. When I started and like I also stopped drinking when I was 23. So I was 23, 24 years old, not drinking alcohol, not doing drugs, not smoking, doing this keto thing. It was very strict. And so it's a transitional period. What I tell people though is when people have a serious mental illness, depression or bipolar disorder or schizophrenia, where you're hospitalized on a plethora of soul sucking medications, uh, with impaired cognition and debilitating side effects and anxiety and all of these symptoms and complications, unable to work, unable to live normally, uh, I was not financially independent. then doing a dietary change is much more reasonable than for someone who might be doing it to lose 10 pounds or because the LDL is a little high or for some other reason that's not severe. And that's why the adherence from people with serious mental illness to the ketogenic diet which we've seen in the early clinical trials is robust as well as a correlation between better mental illness symptom outcomes and greater adherence to the diet. In other words, the people who attain and maintain higher ketone levels tend to achieve better rates of remission in their mental illness. the the sort of the early and emerging evidence that that we talk a lot about that that metaboline that it looks like that correlation could hold true. Um so as more research comes out but that's problem a lot of people will say the research just is too early and we can't believe that it's too early. Mr. Robin, if someone said that to you, her research is too early. >> That that is like exactly where I come in because I am very passionate about the storytelling that all of us have, all of us can share. And I firmly believe that the more of us that can share our story, the more of us who feel comfortable sharing our story, the better off we'll be at getting this more widespread pop that bubble and and get out into the world. Um, we need both sides. We need the scientific side and we need the the stories. So, I I encourage that. I host a podcast where I I talk to everyday people like like the number one thing that I hear when I invite somebody is like, "M, my story is not as good as yours." And I'm like, "No, every single story matters. If you've healed anything, there's nothing too small that you can't share because we need to get this message out here." And it's just so incredibly important to to just talk about it and be honest about it. We we need to do and we need everyone to do that. >> Bre, before you ask your next question, can I just can I register a complaint? I'm I'm honestly I'm I'm really just I'm so I'm so tired of how often there is a double standard applied between diet versus medicine. I really get tired of hearing I really I get tired of hearing how often it is that they go well diet's not sustainable and we need longer term studies and so forth. But how often is there a default assumption with a drug that just came out that might have a study of say two years? No. No, no. This is something that we know or at least we feel pretty confident you could be on indefinitely. Indefinitely. >> And combined the three other medications. >> So the drugto drug interactions we don't know about as well. And so it's just it's very >> it's an odd time that we live in frankly that a species appropriate diet, one that we can eat and sustain and be healthy on is actually assumed to not be something that could be genuinely therapeutic. and for which there's some level of of push back because they say well we should at least get studies studies to prove that it's worth long term but that same default assumption isn't applied to phicotherapy and I just I think it's a travesty I really do >> unfortunately though that argument about not being enough study is starting to get weaker and weaker as we're getting more and more studies coming out with randomized control trials being done um across the country across the globe one in Australia and so that's going to become a weaker argument and then that double standard >> and the more we have long-term examples that are out here in the wild making their stories known that's how we make it work >> for for so long that NM1 is science different kind of science but it's science and we pay attention to that now well so the one issue though that comes up is what about your what about your LDL so now with this whole journal with this study with the document with all you've learned from it. How you feel? Are you concerned about it? >> I don't think about it at all except for that I'm in this film that [laughter] talks about it. Otherwise, I'm not at all concerned. I've had my CAC. It's zero. I'm scheduled to have another one because it's been five years. So, I'll have another one just to keep tabs on that. But to me, it's just a random number. And again, I'm I'm not a physician, so I'm not giving advice to anyone, but for me, that was the comfortable decision. I have a choice to lower my LDL or a and and and be severely depressed and not be able to be engaged, not be able to hold a job that I can have that choice or I can not worry about this number and I can live a joyous life. So, I'm choosing that every single time. And on that case, you're you're not worried about the number, but you're also clearly not ignoring your heart health. You're getting your calcium score. You're following up on it, which perfectly reasonable. I mean, that makes so much sense. And and Maggie had a great quote where you said, "I I really hope that no doctor will tell someone to stop this way of eating because of their LDL." And so, how do you feel about your LDL? If you're a young guy, you got a long time for this. How do you >> Yeah, I mean I I don't think about it too much cuz I've I feel like I've almost optimized everything where it's like carnivore, OMAD, you know, sleep as well as I can, don't drink or do drugs or stuff like that. But I do have high LDL. Um I look at the other metabolic markers, fasting, insulin, a you know, just all the fasting glucose, all the the important ones, right? And so I feel like LDL is not Oops. LDL is not the whole picture. And as long as I feel good, um, you know, I feel happy with that. And then the other thing I'll mention, another another point, the doctors, a lot of doctors don't believe their patients when their patients tell them, look, I feel good doing this. I feel better than I ever have. The doctor will believe the medical dogma from pharma rather than their individual patients. And I when I healed from my bipolar dis disorder, my psychiatrist at the time who was steeped in the traditional approach psychotropic medication wasn't able to connect the dots that it was actually the ketogenic diet that had made this tremendous impact on my mental illness. And so I think that's another obstacle we have to overcome is just the the doctors. Oh, my patient looks amazing. They feel great. Let me dig into this a little bit more. And maybe the LDL number is not the whole story in this case. >> Now, everybody's going to walk away with probably a different message, one that resonates more with them from the film. Um and and some may say you know what LDL this and that and I'm not going to pay attention to LDL at all but there's big part in this in the film about LDL and cardiac damage and there are some examples of people saying yes you probably should treat you treat the LDL especially if there's a lot of how do you see that in terms of the message that's getting out meaning you know you can't control what people walk away with how important is it for you for people to have that feelings >> well as Uh, as Jen knows, I wanted to have in there a, as often happens when you're interviewing experts, the experts can be reluctant to be in a film if they feel like what their position is is not getting fully represented. And that's why I wanted to be sure at one point which happens toward the end as all of this good news is wrapped in that many doctors and if I'm not mistaken you're included um would themselves feel a little bit more comfortable if steps were taken if cholesterol went high and also if the imaging suggested that they're maybe at higher risk because of existing disease. Right now to be sure if you listen carefully I as I normally do I try not to render my own personal opinion on what people should do. I just state that these are what most of the doctors in the film would say and therefore carry the message across. But if you notice I also mention but there is they would also agree this is also the case. There's just no comparison to metabolic health. metabolic health does need to be a message that I think should get carried away because aside from LDL, people don't realize how much of a cardiovascular disease risk metabolic health is. And so, one thing I am a bit vocal on is that I also don't like how much LDL becomes an unnecessary distraction when it's so low that people think their other poor metabolic health markers can be ignored, which unfortunately is quite common. I have family members who say this to me all the time. They go, "Actually, I'm not at all worried about a, you know, a heart attack because," and they'll tell me their LDL number and I'll be like, "Yeah, but you've got hypertension. You've got high A1C." And they go, "Yeah, but my my doctor's not worried about my heart health." And I'm like, "I'm worried about your heart health. Your metabolic health matters for your cardiovascular disease risk." And I can show you all the data and the research and they go, "But the LDL is low." So, it works both ways. But listen, just one other thing that I would say is an important takeaway is that imaging is the gold standard. You can just look at the disease yourself. We're at a day and age where the radiation dosage is relatively low. The machines are very advanced to be able to pick it up. And literally a CAC is one of the best, at least early screeners. The mammogram of the heart, I love that term and I wish it was carried through from the film. No, I I just scheduled one and it's $150. They're they're not often covered by insurance, but you can get them and it's 150 bucks. >> Yeah, they're rarely covered by insurance, but they'll be between $100 and $300 probably uh depending on how you get them. Yeah, >> which if you think about the retirement investment is so freaking cheap. It is so the the association between your CAC levels and your likely future outcome. There's lots of science. Trust me, there's so much that's out there that you can look at and you never mind LDL. If you have a reason for which you think your heart health might be at risk, it's a no-brainer to me. >> Ask you 100 more questions, but I'm getting the sign. We got to cut it off. But that doesn't mean we all have to leave. We can all gather in the back and still chat, ask some questions. And there's some educational materials in the back table there. Um, and of course, as Deep said, you could obviously read this and watch it again with with family, with someone you love, with someone you want to share it with. Um, and your views so we can have credit. [applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 9mLPJBv3lNk (https://youtu.be/9mLPJBv3lNk) ===

[applause] >> All right, opening question. This one's for Nick. For clinicians in the room who feel confident in the current cholesterol model, what's the single strongest reason they should be willing to re-examine it? I mean, there's a scientific answer to this question that I could give, but I think everybody that just watched the film the human answers speak for themselves. So, I'm going to tangent off your question and answer the question that I want to ask. Or answer the question that I wanted you to ask. Or want to answer, which is it like when I entered my PhD program in medical school, I had this very cold, raw sense of like what science is and should be. And what I've come to realize is that the stories you wrap around it really are part and parcel with how the cold and perfect process of science is executed in the real world. And I think those things need to go hand in hand, so we can talk about the nuances of the data from the what dozen studies we have now. And you know I love to do that hours on end, but at the end of the day it's like people like that who are caught in a rock and a hard place. And you see how much they're struggling, and just to say, "Look, have the humility to say, we are at the boundary of what we know, and how can we grapple with these really difficult personal decisions in the absence of perfect or complete data?" Because that's effectively what medicine is. It's making hard decisions with perfect or incomplete data, so that would be my answer. Uh Chris, we often hear quote, "The science is settled." So, in your field of psychiatry, how often has that statement turned out to be premature? And what does that teach us about humility in medicine? I would actually say in psychiatry, at least in my experience of psychiatry, I have almost never heard the science is settled. Um I hope Lipidology is listening up right now. We We in psychiatry you know, sent for as long as psychiatry's been around, I mean, we do our best, we pour our hearts and souls and minds into trying to help people and relieve their suffering. And despite our best efforts, we all have patients who are not getting better. And um it's heartbreaking. And so I really honestly, I don't think I've ever heard a psychiatrist say the science is settled on like what causes mental illness and how to treat it. Um And so uh So yeah, I think in some ways um it this film is phenomenal because it's asking tough questions, it's challenging the status quo. The um But the the thing that touched my heart from the film is it almost like there are always risks and benefits to every treatment. And when the benefits so far outweigh a theoretical risk of a lab biomarker, it really becomes kind of a no-brainer. And I mean, I think it's great that you included the examples of people who are trying to ameliorate it by eating a sweet potato, a half a sweet potato, a quarter of a sweet potato. And the benefits evaporate. And then it just becomes a no-brainer. It like the science is not at all settled. Um And I really do want to understand what is the optimal solution for these patients. Like let's follow them over time. And if it if it isn't what we hope, if if they if they aren't fully protected, what should we be doing? Should they all go on statins? Should they all go on aggressive other types of medications? Like what should we do to optimize their health? But for right now, I think that the clear answer, like Robin's story and so many of the patients that I see, it's a no-brainer. And the good news, I just want to say for those of you who don't know, the overwhelming majority of people who do ketogenic therapies are not lean mass hyper-responders. Their LDL does not skyrocket like this. The majority of patients I see, the LDL comes down because they're all overweight or obese. Like across the board, their heart health and the risk for heart disease improves. That's actually something I hope came through in the film because even though we're focusing on a number of people that are lean, we're focusing we're pointing out that our own research that we've published actually shows exactly what you're describing. The many people who are adopting a ketogenic diet, whether it's for uh mental health efficacy, typically are those who are much more obese. And so the fact that so many worry about what's going to happen to the LDL cholesterol, I like that we're at least highlighting that as well. Well, I think that actually speaks to like what a obstacle this is and why the question needs to be addressed because if the fact of the matter is if most people go low-carb, every single heart health biomarker, including lipoprotein particle counts, improve. But that's not the prevailing narrative. The prevailing narrative is if you go keto, your LDL will go up. So the minority drives the narrative because it's something that is that feared, which means it's an even more important question to tackle. Well, and it goes along with bias because the bias is if you're going to eat a lot of fat, it must be bad for your heart. And so, the people who buy into that dogma and bias are looking for the examples that support their hypothesis, and then they rationalize away and marginalize the examples that don't support the hypothesis. So, when I say I have an obese bipolar patient who not only put their bipolar disorder into remission, but also lowered their LDL cholesterol, raised their HDL cholesterol, lowered their triglycerides, lowered their blood pressure, lost a lot of weight, and improved their insulin resistance. They just ignore that. They're like, "Oh, well, that's just an outlier." >> [laughter] >> Because you can't be eating all that fat and do all that. Like, it's just around the corner. Just wait, Chris. Give it another week, and then it's going to the shoe's going to drop. Then, their LDL's going to spike. Then, their heart attack is going to happen. And it's like, "Well, really? Like, this person's life was decimated. >> [laughter] >> You And you really just out of theory, you're terrified of this diet." If the science is settled is the least scientific thing I've ever heard. The second least scientific thing is they're just an outlier. Because how many times in history have we learned the most from the outliers, including homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia, which won what was it, a 1985 Nobel Prize? Like, we always learn the most from looking at the outliers. So, if you have an outlier patient who has that a dramatic response, it's like, "Well, what happened in them? And how can we replicate it, and how can we learn from it?" Which is the the thesis behind the film. It's not that everybody's going to be a lean mass hyper responder, it's that this is really interesting and it needs to be pursued because there's something here, an answer that could unlock like information that could help tens of millions of people because the fact of the matter is like whatever your model of what really causes heart disease and what's most important, we've spent billions in research resources trying to tackle this from one angle for half a century and it's worked abysmally. So, is it so extreme to consider we might be barking up the wrong tree? One of the challenges that I think you kind of bring to light and for somebody like yourself who's directly treating patients with these kinds of disorders is that you're actually seeing efficacy in the right now, right? In the immediate. But that concern of cardiovascular disease down the road is of such a high degree that it is fascinating for people like Robin Dobbins to be you know, actually trying to do something about it, finding out it's not working and then having to make that choice now. They're all waiting for this research. They need to get that data coming back. Do you think that there's going to be a wider embrace eventually in not just your field, but also just with many of your colleagues to consider this particularly given a lot of the immediate benefits that you're seeing with a lot of the research you're doing now. So, so I would say that selling this to psychiatry at least in my mind has not actually been that challenging. And and I I think there are a couple of a few reasons. One is that you have to compare this treatment to this to the standard of care. And the standard of care right now are antipsychotics largely for bipolar and psychotic disorders. I mean, some patients with bipolar disorder don't necessarily end up on long-term antipsychotics, but many of them do and that becomes their mood stabilizer as well. And and we know that those standard evidence-based treatments come with significant risk for impairing metabolic health. They come with significant risk for weight gain and oftentimes massive weight gain. Um like 50 lb, 100 lb, or more. Um and a worsening of LDL cholesterol. And an increase in triglycerides and a decrease in HDL cholesterol and a worsening of insulin resistance and new onset type 2 diabetes. And we in the field of psychiatry have never been happy about doing that to our patients. We've never we've we've never felt great about the treatments we're offering. But we have felt like we're between a rock and a hard place. This human being is going to die of their psychosis and erratic dangerous behavior if we don't calm their behavior with these medications despite all of the risks and all of the side effects and all of the complaints from from the patients and the suffering that they say these medications and treatments induce in them. This makes me a zombie. I can't think straight. I'm getting fat. I hate this. Please don't make me do this, doctor. And we implore the patient, "Please just comply with this treatment because this you otherwise you're going to die. Otherwise, you're going to get manic and psychotic and you're going to you're going to you're going to do something really dangerous and erratic and you're going to end up dead or you're going to end up homeless or something. Like something horrendous [snorts] is going to happen to you." And so, we've long accepted metabolic risks with treatments. So, that part of the story isn't too hard because I can say the ketogenic diet's going to help your patients lose weight and improve almost every other metabolic biomarker and LDL at most usually might go up a little. Other than a lean mass hyper-responder. And again, for the most part, I have had almost no lean mass hyper-responders in my practice. Matt Baszucki, I consulted to him. He's not officially my patient. He's the closest that I get to a lean mass hyper-responder and otherwise I haven't had any. And um but the other thing that we can do in the field and that everybody can do is there is this risk calculator for cardiovascular disease from the American College of Cardiology. And shockingly, if you don't know this, it includes more than just LDL cholesterol. It really does. And you're supposed to plug in these numbers and it will tell you the risk, the 10-year risk for a heart attack. And [snorts] the overwhelming majority of people doing ketogenic therapy, if you do a before and a 6-month after, ACC 10-year risk of a heart attack, it goes down. The Virta trials demonstrated this time and again, even though in the Virta trials the LDL cholesterol did go up slightly, everything else improved dramatically and the risk for a heart attack went down. And that is evidence-based American Heart Association endorsed science. That is the current evidence base. And why would we look the other way? Why would we not use gold standard evidence-based cardiology to assess risk? And again, with a lean mass hyper-responder, I haven't plugged in the numbers. I don't know how that >> [laughter] >> I don't know how that would >> the calculator. Yeah, you can't you can't put me in that calculator. I'd break it. >> [laughter] >> I'm not kidding. You think okay, Mike, these these calculators are not trained to do >> of things. Nick does break a lot of things. >> Actually, this So, this was a this was actually the next question I was going to have for you because at the end of the film we're seeing the assessment of everybody toward the end, especially where they stood with their own scans. The scan that you got it it spoiler alert, when we did the filming it was 3 and 1/2 years ago, something like that with Nick. >> have even more. It was like over 2 years into starting a ketogenic diet. Yes, but it had even been a little ways from when you had gotten your scan completed. And the interesting thing is is you've just now completed another scan. That's actually going to be coming out soon. So, you're not only an example within the film of the researchers, the three of us, the three that you saw at the table, you have the highest LDL of all of us. And you are in fact publishing that coming soon, right? The case report is under review. 7 years cholesterol 700. So, we'll see what the data say. And we did get AI quantification. So, they'll be down to the lowest millimeter cubed the results. And uh I'm a terrible liar. So, if you see a smirk on my face, you can just probably into it what the results might be, but I'll uh I'll let the number drop when the number drops. So. But, you would say what Let me ask you this. As far as the film goes, we wanted to be sure that the doctors who were portrayed in the film, who do have an opinion that they would consider to be nuanced, we wanted to be sure that we portrayed their opinion fairly well. Which is that for many of them that we filmed, they would say, "Hey, if your LDL goes up on a ketogenic diet, then the next most important step is imaging." You know, getting back to the mammogram of the heart if you've got CAC. However, many of them would take it a step further and say, "If the imaging didn't came back if it didn't come back very well, you may want to consider taking that a little bit more seriously with regard to what steps you take." As far as what steps it is that may be different from one doctor to the next. But, certainly a lot of doctors I know that are low carb may then in that scenario consider taking steps with regard to um certain therapies. Is that your opinion? Yes and no. You know, with me and everything uh nothing is ever that simple. I guess it's better to have that triage point of treatment of we're going to look in your heart. Is there disease? If there's disease, then you have less buffer room. Let's treat it. It's better than the triage point of here's a lipid cut point, now we're going to treat. But, as always, I think it's more complex and web-like than any sort of linear cascade. And I realize that's hard to operationalize in a medical system. Um where I'm going with this is there are so many different like treatment modalities for an individual that I think can optimize their overall health. And one of the themes of the film, and what Chris is just speaking to, is that like it is about the whole person. How does a treatment regime fit in to their overall health regime. So, like I've been experimenting with not statins, but other what are classified as cholesterol-lowering drugs for not even a reason that has to do with cholesterol, but for other things that they can do in my body. I think we get very locked into what is the first triage point and then treat or not treat rather than going from a what are all the risks and benefits of this treatment in this individual given all the factors, one of which is a cardiac scan. But only one of which. Sorry, that's a little bit of an indirect answer, but these things aren't meant to be simple, and I think people want a simple heuristic to go off of rather than just immersing in the hey, every single case is going to be complex, and we need to take everything we know to make a case-by-case decision, uh especially when the data are incomplete or imperfect, but then we need to figure out what those gaps are and fill them in in a nuanced manner, which this study is doing with respect to a particular population that just hasn't been studied. There is a a kind of an interesting footnote to it, which of course our own data, in order for you to see plaque regression, there had to be existing plaque. So, to an extent, some number of our participants do have plaque, do have disease, but then actually saw a only and we only wanted to feature those who had confirmed plaque regression. So, hats off to the team to confirm it directly. We don't want to just go by the numerics, but that proved to be rather important. What What one of the really important things about the findings that especially on social media gets overlooked is like again and again every single analysis and there were at least four. There was no relationship between LDL and apoB and plaque progression. None. And this was the study with the large the single largest LDL and apoB spread of any prospective imaging study ever and there was no relationship. So, the assumption is this is the thing that's driving plaque progression if there's progression and that's assumption falls apart here, too. And there's signals in the literature as well that like we might be misattributing benefits of treatment to LDL and apoB. If you actually look at meta-analyses of the statin trials where there are improvements in cardiovascular outcomes, there are. If you look at what is the correlation between how much LDL goes down and what the improvements is, sorry to get a little bit statistically and technical, but the R squared is 0 to 0.1 which is basically like no relationship. It's terrible. So, again to the theme of there's more going on here in metabolism and physiology than oh, there's one biomarker and we snapped our fingers, give a medication and move this thing in isolation. That is not happening, but that is the narrative that is I think been perpetuated that this is the central thing we need to modify and toggle to change your risk. Yeah, that and bottom line is this, we we already know and we were chatting about this a little bit offline before. We already know that at least the association of change with an intervention going back for example to the 4S trial attenuates the more that you have greater and greater metabolic health. So, ironically an intervention to do something, the only one that we have that's fairly broad for an association didn't have that much benefit for those who are more metabolically healthy. So, in my opinion the takeaway seems to continue to be if you fix your your metabolic health you get less benefit because of how much benefit there is to the metabolic health itself for the uh potential benefits that you could look at. Sorry, I probably um butchered that a little bit. But, getting back to the intervention, you know, Chris, I just to get personal for a second, part of why I was so excited to for you to be seeing this for the first time here is I thought about you a lot when we were putting this film together. Cuz I kept thinking I feel like this is something Dr. Palmer in particular would probably like this would resonate a not a lot because people don't see the personal stories in the same way. Something that you did that I still remember very vividly is the first time I got to watch you talk. You brought on a patient. Do you remember that? At Metabolic Health Summit. >> Yeah. So, I don't know when you first saw me, but that's the that must have been the That was it. It was the first time I'd seen a speaker basically for their talk bring up a patient, talk be interview them, but also in a way that could in a more visceral sense bring their story to life for everybody in the audience. And again, we need to do it all, right? We need to get we need to do the science, we need to get as big of populations as we can, etc., but the personal stories are what connect us, right? And I I thought about that a lot when we were putting this film together. Another hats off to Jen Eisenhart because when we were first like talking about putting this film together, in my mind I was like, yeah. Like 70% of this is going to be getting into the lipid energy model and getting into all the other aspect and more and more No, it it the personal stories carried the weight, right? Of what this really is at a at a deep ground level. When you're actually watching the family members talk about it along with the patients, you really get it. You get how how truly real this is for them. It's not just numbers on paper. You know, I would I I guess the reason I am Is the Is the mic on? It is. Here, one, two. Sorry. That's what I'm Thanks. Um I think, you know, I think the reason that I'm so passionate about this work, and I guess the thing that emboldens me to to do this work with such confidence, is that um again, in the mental health field, like I really don't I've I've never really had the privilege of working with the worried well. >> [snorts] >> I don't I don't I don't get like people with their first episode of depression, and they go on an SSRI, and it works beautifully, and I don't get those people. I get people who have been suffering for years or decades, who have tried dozens of medications, who have tried electroconvulsive therapy, who have tried ketamine. Nothing works, and then they come to me. And and honestly, we in psychiatry use treatments that, like I was saying before, we're not we're not really happy with the side effects that we are delivering. I don't think most psychiatrists are really thrilled about the fact that we still apply electricity to people's brains in order to relieve suffering. We're definitely not happy about making our patients gain 100 lbs. But we do those things because we see just profound despair. Just absolute just it really is just absolute hell for people. And so we use desperate measures for desperate times. And when the ketogenic diet can stop that kind of suffering and help people lose weight and help improve so many other biomarkers, I really honestly just don't give a about LDL cholesterol. I just don't. Like how on earth could anybody get worked up about LDL cholesterol when you can relieve suffering, turn somebody who is suicidal and disabled into somebody like Robin, like we saw, I now have a relationship with my children for the first time ever. And her own kids are saying, "I didn't know my mom before. She was always depressed and bipolar." Like how on earth would anybody want to stand in the way of this treatment? Does that mean we're done and no more research? No. I like I am so grateful for all of the research you're doing because again, we let's optimize it. Let's try to have our cake and eat it, too. Keto cake, of course, and eat [laughter] it, too. But um but so so let's let's realize the full health potential of ketogenic therapy and help them live long healthy lives and not have cardiovascular disease. And let's explore the science to figure out what biomarkers do matter and what can we do about those biomarkers and what should we do about those biomarkers? But um But yeah, I mean this work for me has always been about humans and people who are suffering and trying to relieve their suffering. We're getting a little mic swap here. One more question. This is one that was brought in and and this is on one of the cards. I think it's actually a good one. This is for both of you. Cholesterol is often tested every year at patient annual exams, but fasting insulin is rarely tested unless requested by a patient and I'll just say that that's sometimes that doesn't happen either. Why is that? And how important is fasting insulin for a clinician to assess a patient's metabolic health? We'll start with you, Nick. I mean, I think the question as to why is because of the incentive structures that we've built and the business models. And to be clear, that's not pointing fingers at anybody. That is just the reality of the world we live in. We have a marker. We have an industry that is built around treating that marker. That marker is assumed to be a causal risk factor. So, easy win. Prescribe. Everyone's happy. And it's based on the evidence, the strongest evidence. And I put quotes there because I think one thing I've come to learn is that evidence-based medicine does not mean the most effective medicine. It means the medicine that has had the studies done that have checked the boxes because we've been willing to fund those studies because there's an industry around them. So, that's the answer. It's the easy win with the incentive structures built around it. A fasting insulin is arguably a better marker of cardiovascular risk. We saw the one graph in the paper about lipoprotein insulin resistance, which is kind of a proxy, a much, much larger um risk association with cardiovascular disease. But, what is the solution? It's not a business model around that. It is changing your lifestyle. Maybe there is now with GLP-1s, so we'll Actually, it's an interesting case to see how this will change where the spotlight of medicine goes now that there is a business model around it. I have my own predictions. Um And that's not to say any of these things are good or bad, but I would just want to emphasize like the things that get tested and the things that get treated are not necessarily the things that are the most important for the patients, so the things that the business models, the incentive structures are directing the spotlight to. And And we're all caught up on that. When I say all of us, I mean scientists, patients, physicians. And it's something that I think is a is a unifying battle, but in order to properly fight that battle for the betterment of person's health, we just need to acknowledge what the problem is. And one of the problems is, I think, a dysfunctional incentive structures where the interests of a medical system and the interests of doctors and their patients aren't actually aligned. And science, for that matter. Good science. Insulin for me. So, in um in the in the clinic that I'm now running, we actually routinely test insulin. It has to be tested with fasting glucose, and then you can plug those two numbers together in to get what's called a home IR, which will give you a rough measure of insulin resistance. Um because just a a fact an insulin on its own isn't necessarily going to tell you the whole story. Um So, I actually think because we don't currently have a simple treatment for it, that probably is one of the reasons why we aren't testing it as a biomarker. I will say with GLP-1 receptor agonists, I won't be shocked if 5 years from now everyone is testing insulin and glucose, >> [laughter] >> and that becomes an indication for a GLP-1 receptor agonist. Um because there's strong reason to believe that they will improve insulin signaling, um and reduce insulin resistance. And that is a well-funded pharmaceutical machine right now. >> [laughter] >> And uh they are taking over the world. So, um so yeah, they will have a vested interest in making sure that otherwise healthy-looking people might want to get their HOMA-IR tested, and then they automatically become a candidate for a GLP-1 receptor agonist. I actually have an open question that I kind of throw to you guys and just so many brilliant medical people in the audience just to think about, which is there's this suspiciousness that arises even as you're talking for me, which is like, what is the motive? And it's like, okay, there's there's a financial industry behind this. So, it's not surprising if now given GLP-1s, people are testing glucose and insulin more and that becomes a focus. To be clear, that's not a bad thing. I don't think any of us are saying that it is. This might even be a case where metabolic health and the pharmaceutical industry align in a manner that is now like industry and true health are parallel. The question is, how do you actually build a model where the incentive structures and patient health are always parallel, rather than becoming, you know, obtuse perpendicular, because I think that's kind of where we are now, and maybe by serendipital serendipity we'll realign. But like, how do you make it so we're always on parallel tracks? And I don't have an answer for that. That's like an open question that spins around in my mind. But yeah, I but I would say the solution to the world is not to test everybody's home IR and then put them on a GLP-1 [laughter] receptor agonist. The solution for the world is to understand why is the why are so many people in the world metabolically unhealthy? What is driving that? And what is it in our environment that is driving that? Cuz it's not genetics. And um and and then addressing that. And of course, that is a probably multi-billion dollar or trillion dollar problem because there are massive industries set up delivering whatever it is, whether you want to go with ultra-processed foods, those of you who like environmental toxins, like it take your pick about what's driving it. But whatever those things are, they are massive massive industries that are not going to easily change and that even the highest levels of government aren't willing to take on and try to challenge because it will cost a lot of money and it will be quite disruptive. I'll I'll give my one answer and then I'll I'll wrap this real quick. But yes, my answer is I I like to compare this a lot to smoking of 60, 70 years ago. You talk to people back then, they they did know smoking wasn't good for you. It just was minimized. The harm was minimized. So people would regularly say things like, well, yeah, I know I should quit, but uh my doctor smokes more than I do and everybody in my my company smokes and we're all I mean, yeah, of course, it's not perfect, but I'm not a health nut. And so, in effect, I feel like the food environment today is the smoking of 60, 70 years ago. It's too minimized. And what really changed it wasn't as much of the broad policies as it was a cultural shift. Sometimes you cannot count on the government and the businesses to jump in front of the culture. The culture is it has to be something that us together it has to be grassroots. That we look more and more at things like the chain which GLP-1 making metabolic health suddenly become useful to assess. Why? Because now there's a business model attached to it. Okay, let's be aware of the data in front of us. That in that what it takes for them to become interested in metabolic health is for there to be some kind of you know, model behind it to make it better. So, with that, I want to I want to get a show of hands. How many remember what my call to action was from earlier? Okay, good. Good. I only have one more thing that I want to add to that. Which is if you wouldn't mind, right outside the door is what they call a step and repeat. It's kind of like a cool little background and they're collecting a few interviews. So, if any of you guys want to add your thoughts, I'm sure they would love to have them. We have room for a few more, right? That would be great. We'd love to hear your thoughts on the film. And could you give one last round of applause to our fantastic panelists here? >> [applause] >> We so appreciate you watching this film and I hope you'll share it with everybody you know. And once again, thank you for coming. >> [applause] >> Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: DYt1vSQevsE (https://youtu.be/DYt1vSQevsE) ===

It literally felt like the lights had come on. Such a night and day effect on my mental health. My life changed like that. There's an [music] assumption that if someone starts a ketogenic diet, automatically you increase your risk of heart disease. I just knew how good I felt, but I did freak out a little. I was really scared. What if this isn't a medical problem, but a scientific opportunity? What if we take a [music] look at healthy people and see if cholesterol matters the [music] same? So, this is kind of the big money shot. Well, what the heck is going on? >> to know if this is a problem. Wow, what a revelation. Earth-shaking in the world of health. It takes somebody with completely fresh eyes. He's an outsider starting to sort of [music] upend medicine. There's no money without industry. There's not an industry for a ketogenic diet. I'm hoping that this changes the science going forward. There was a joy in her that I I hadn't seen in a very long time. I think there is a paradigm shift happening, but we're at the very beginning of it. >> People need to understand what they eat affects everything. >> [music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 5qskG7sWth8 (https://youtu.be/5qskG7sWth8) ===

It's hard to differentiate that these days because of how much the clicks, the views in real time convert to profit. >> Yeah. There's a Uh getting back to the media landscape this happened to us yesterday. We were all at lunch and a family member had a very alarming thing that they sent to um one of my family members who was with me at the time. And the alarming thing was somebody presenting a kind of newscast but pretty quickly those of us who were younger, who were together for lunch we recognized it was AI. And literally a talking head who was saying a lot of non-specific things but at a heightened level of concern and describing a world event that was occurring in real time. >> Mhm. That really got my other family member who sent it to us super concerned, freaked out. Right. And so getting back to the the issue of the evaluation in journalism. I mean the the the real concept of news itself Yeah. >> is accuracy. Yep. But there's this there's this interesting phrase that always sticks with me which is what explained why in cable news there would often be a lot of opinion and opinion pieces and so forth which is that opinion's cheap and facts are expensive. >> Mhm. Mhm. And so the irony is with AI I know this colloquialism is used a lot, slop. With AI getting much more sophisticated it's easier to quite literally make things out of whole cloth that look quite authentic. >> And that's that's a hard thing to battle. Yeah. Yeah. It is. You know we've talked a lot about AI in the film world and obviously like our unions have been very um scared, rightfully so, about how people are trying to automate things and at the end of the day what I come back to and what I still see everybody wanting is authenticity. And that's the one thing AI can't give us if it's trying to be something other than what it is. It is an incredible tool. Like I use I use ChatGPT all the time. Like it's great. But the authenticity behind it like it's again about intention. What are you trying to do with it? If you're trying to deceive it's effective but you know, it's not authentic and to me it's a I don't know. I just think it's it's a it's a moment where I'm like, "Whoa." But I also have this sense of confidence? I don't know if it's confidence, maybe it's uh ignorance. But I would say like I feel like my job is safer than ever because I'm like it can't replicate what we're doing. It can't replicate like the kind of stories that actually compel and like you know, the family member you're talking about like that's scary for people and you know, our generations like younger folks will have a little bit of an easier time discerning things. But I still get scammed all the time. I'm like, "Wait, what?" And like somebody sent me something the other day it was like an AI image and it was of my new puppy on my horse which you know I it freaked me out. I was like, "Please don't ever send me this ever again." I was like, "I hate [laughter] this so much. I I don't this came from. It feels like so invasive and creepy like >> was literally both your animals. >> Both my animals. >> Yeah. And and it was just it was a joke about my dog riding my horse and But think about that. They can take two reference images from a photograph hand it off to one of these models it can construct something >> so photorealistic >> Yeah. that it could in you know, invoke this emotion or reaction >> Right. Right. So this is this is a new thing that a number of people are doing where they um take old photographs from like for family and take it to you know, show grandpa Yeah. you know, an old photograph recreated and they mean to do it tastefully. >> Yeah. But it is still all simulation, right? All All I can say is my grandpa would have hated this. >> [laughter] >> He would have been like, "What the fuck?" Nope. Nope. That would not have flat flown with with my grampy. No. But you talk about how you use ChatGPT every day. Literally not hyperbole, literally 99 out of 100 people I know in my life are using AI every day. It was one of the fastest paradigm shifts I've ever observed. >> Totally. Totally. >> And and for those of us in engineering it's hard to even describe how radically it's changed everything. I can't believe the adoption timeline. Right. Like and I know it was kind of around I I was honestly trying to remember this morning. I was like, "Okay, pre-AI was like I don't even what 2023? 2022? Like I remember doing things but I I use AI very specifically. I don't use it to like generate a lot of stuff for me unless it's like internal documents and I'm just you know, [ __ ] around. But I use it to check things that I've done and proofread and you know, make things better. I want it to ask me questions and and then formulate things that I've put into it. Um but I that that's just how I use it personally. But I remember like when I got ChatGPT and was like "Oh man, if I had had this in college I wouldn't have done anything." >> Oh yeah. Not a thing. And so I'm so grateful that it came out after that because I'm probably 20% more intelligent because I didn't have it then. >> have been if you'd had it. >> Yeah. Cuz I wouldn't have done [ __ ] I would have just been >> There's a meme I saw the other day where it had like in the top panel a student and he's looking kind of suspicious and he goes the student who's used ChatGPT to write his paper. And then it's got the professor down below, professor who's used ChatGPT to grade his paper, right? [laughter] >> Oh, that's funny. That's smart though. >> it's true and to to peel back the curtain a little bit I'm absolutely aware that people are sending me documents all the time that at least are partially if not fully generative. >> Yeah. And I myself am using AI to summarize them. So think about this where you and I could say have a conversation that was like I don't know, five sentences back and forth. Over email you could make a generative deck that's like 18 slides and you're like, "This is great. It really captured what I was prompting it to do." >> And I could be getting and be like, "Ah, Clara, dang it. Um hey, summarize this for me, Claude." Mhm. into five sentences of conciseness, right? And then that's ultimately more of what I end up taking away anyway cuz here's the catch, a lot of a lot of what we want to say we're doing >> Mhm. >> such as "Oh, I read the book." Right. I read the book last month. >> Right. >> You could say, "Well, so what happened on page 243?" Yeah. I'm I'm going to go Oh, I don't know what happened on page 40. >> Can you tell me like what you're describing? And then you can describe some things. I'm going to remember some parts of it. >> Yeah. Right? But I'm how much do I this really remember a scene has more to do with how meaningful it was to me. But I'm not doing that with literally everything I observe. >> Mhm. And so I find it ironic because a lot of times people are you know, a bit more judgemental about these LLMs hallucinating. And I understand why. But at the same time I I want to keep saying, "Yeah, no though." Yeah. Yeah. [laughter] We we as humans we're kind of subject to a lot of these same rule sets and you have to recognize how much of these things are trained on us. >> right. So without question and you probably heard this many times before from other people but I'll say it for sure, we are at the beginning of the singularity. Yeah. We are at a new level of interconnectivity that we're just barely cracking the book open on. Mhm. And a lot of it comes back to thinking of it in this way. How much are these large language models trained on us? Interesting. >> And then how much are we just reverberating a lot of that training >> Yeah. as well. Can you say more about the interconnectivity and what you mean by that specifically? Yeah, so the think think about it okay. Think about everything that Einstein had ever written, had ever thought. Let's say all of his you know, diary entries, all of the letters he sent to other people, little tidbits that could be picked up. But just like I described this book that I might have read you know, from a month ago. I don't really know how to necessarily perfectly prioritize what I should remember and what I shouldn't. And so LLMs are often described in multiple ways and there are lots of There's lots of how these different companies make use of further structuring components to have greater utilization. But in a sense, they're actually a very high-powered word predictor. That's a lot of how they function, right? And what's amazing about it is that there's a mesh of interconnectivity that um I don't really know a good way of putting this. I have There's a friend of mine who's an AI expert who would put this a little bit uh uh better than I would. But it's where it's utilizing what is more of that deeper concept of neural networks. With regard to how it is that it can construct and present this back to us. Now, the thing that we all were wondering back in the day was was was it whether there was going to be one company that jumps out in front and becomes kind of the big Google, if you will, of the land. And then we're all kind of please, could I have a piece of this, you know, AI mana? And it hasn't been that way. We have a lot of major players that are now only competing with each other, but seem to even have a degree of specialization for what their models are good for versus others. But all of them are ultimately based on the training of everything we've ever produced as humans. And that's a very key thing. That's why the artists you're talking about in Hollywood could be upset because they're saying, "Wait a sec, I can literally see the visual special effects that I made for like, say, this character being reflected in this trained AI, even if it's not one-to-one identical. It's close enough that I can see how that visual training had shown up and how it's shaped. Right? But it's hard to stop that because that kind of has happened with us as humans. So my pushback as a technologist is I mean, advertising's a great example. Design, design concepts, how much are we copying off each other's paper? In that um uh imitation is the sincerest form of flattery kind of way. Right. It's so interesting to frame it that way and coming at it like, you know, it's everything that we've given it. And I would say again, like, to me, the difference is emotion and like, you can feel written words that somebody put a lot of effort into and not even effort, but emotion and energy and you can feel it differently. It feels different. It comes across in a character differently. But like, AI is so powerful because like, my ChatGPT, I think, honestly, I would rather have my entire camera roll leaked than have my ChatGPT [laughter] history leaked. People would be like, "Is she all right?" Like, oh gosh. >> use the Do you ever use the private? No, there's a private? >> [laughter] >> Yeah. You can in the upper right-hand corner, you can see private. It's It's almost like an incognito window for Google Chrome, right? >> No, but I but I I want it to to know me, to remember me. >> Yeah, because I like it to reflect back everything. But one of the things I asked it, I was like, "Would you like a name?" And and I was just like curious to see cuz I was like, you know, some of my friends have named their ChatGPT. And um and mine came back with, "You know, that's not what this is, Claire." >> [laughter] >> And I was like, "Oh, okay. Great. I'm [laughter] so happy for your honesty. I know it's like it's so funny because some people have this chat algorithm or whatever it is that it it makes them like it regurgitates back and it's like a echo chamber for themselves. Mine is like, "That's super [ __ ] up that you'd even say that to me." I'm like, "Oh my god, I'm so sorry." [laughter] Like, man, okay. Yeah, it's it's honestly hysterical and it But it is a reflection of me cuz that's exactly how I talk to myself. So, it's it's such an incredible, powerful tool to be able to it feels like a thought partner, you know? And like a journal that can talk back. >> It's what it's designed to be. Exactly. >> So, the nature of what AI means to be from the company perspective, cuz I'll I'll come back to this. It's an important piece of this puzzle. How can I make an AI be the most successful? Well, beyond it serving its core functions that make it unique to being an AI, I also want you, the user, to be happy. Right? There is, however, other business needs. Something that I've talked about on this podcast before.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: unN__2-G_bo (https://youtu.be/unN__2-G_bo) ===

A new report is shedding light on the risks associated with some popular eating plans. These diets that were very low in carbohydrates raise the risk for bad cholesterol, and that is a risk factor for heart disease. >> If you have that much fat, the bad cholesterol goes up, increasing your risk of heart problems. All over the world, people are looking for ways to live a healthier life. People who suffered, sometimes for decades, with chronic illness, and [music] then a simple change in diet turns it all around. My symptoms all improved dramatically. It literally felt like the lights had come on. Changing my diet had such a night-and-day effect on my mental health. >> So many people have found their solution in a ketogenic diet. [music] His diabetes is completely under control. For some medical conditions, and for some individuals, [music] it seems to be a lifeline. And yet they have this one problem. Though I'm in the best shape I've ever been in, yet [music] one lab number was saying that this was bad. My life changed like that. Modern medicine believes that ketogenic diets can also kill us. Straight out, LDL cholesterol causes heart disease and [music] stroke. >> went through the roof. My LDL is way up. >> the highest I've seen it. We're doing everything right. Why is this happening? There's an assumption that if someone starts a ketogenic diet, automatically [music] you increase your risk of heart disease. >> I just knew how good I felt, but I did freak out a little. I was really [music] scared. But what if modern medicine is wrong? What if this isn't a medical problem, but a scientific opportunity? What if we take a look [music] at healthy people and see if cholesterol matters the same? So this is kind of the big money shot. Well, what the heck is going on? I have to know if this is a problem. Wow, what a revelation. Earth-shaking in the world of of health. It takes somebody with completely fresh eyes. He's now a cider starting to sort of upend medicine. There's no money without industry, and there's not an industry for a ketogenic [music] diet. >> I'm hoping that this changes the science going forward. There was a joy in her that I hadn't seen in a very long time. I think there is a paradigm [music] shift happening, but we're at the very beginning of it. >> People need to understand what they eat affects everything.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: vKVf0TtQVp4 (https://youtu.be/vKVf0TtQVp4) ===

Hi everyone. I've recently discussed the news that we've had multiple participants from the Keto CTA study independently resubmit their heart scans to Clearly. The results showed notable differences from the original Clearly analysis. That said, these individual submissions were broadly consistent with the other independent analyses within our study. Moreover, after publication of the paper, we learned the data provided to Clearly was not fully blinded. Despite our repeated requests, including offers to cover costs, Clearly declined to perform a fully blinded reanalysis. It's worth emphasizing, as with any other longitudinal study, it has always been the expectation of the research team that all analyses would be fully blinded. This isn't just standard. It's vital for the integrity of the study itself. Given we could no longer stand behind the Clearly specific portion of the April 7th paper, we formally asked Jack Advances to withdraw this paper citing this Clearly data set and its refusal to perform any quality assurance to ensure its accuracy. On January 12th, 2026, the journal confirmed a full retraction. We expect its official posting on this very soon. Our primary paper, which includes heart flow and the pre-specified QAngio analyses, is currently in peer review. Importantly, the two principal findings reported in the original paper, that baseline plaque strongly predicts future plaque progression, and that ApoB was not associated with plaque progression, were independently reproduced in both the heart flow and QAngio analyses. We're excited to share these updated blinded analyses in the peer-reviewed process soon. You can find the preprint linked below. And once again, thanks to everyone for all your support.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: bi5PsUANJ5w (https://youtu.be/bi5PsUANJ5w) ===

Hi everyone. I want to share a crucial update on our study Keto CTA. Our study recruited 100 participants, each undergoing two high-resolution heart scans known as CT angiograms, 1 year apart. There are now four analyses of these same 200 scans, but one of those analyses stands out, and I have some breaking developments to report about it today. For a quick background, the first quantitative analysis was from an AI company Clearly. We published their analysis of our scans last year. After the paper was published, the Citizen Science Foundation was then free to look at the raw Clearly data, and we found a number of patterns in that data that appeared different from what is typically seen in other coronary plaque studies. For example, in Clearly's analysis, not one of the participants showed lower plaque levels at follow-up, even though CTA scans typically show some natural variation in both directions, especially in people who start with very little plaque. For another example, within their data, people with no detectable calcium in their scans appeared to have several times more plaque progression than those who already had some calcium present. This runs counter to what many in cardiology call the power of zero, the well-established finding that having no coronary calcium is typically associated with lower risk and slower disease progression. Another major development is that shortly after publication, we learned that the scans Clearly was analyzing were not fully blinded. In studies like this, the order of scans is typically kept unknown to the analyst. This is to help prevent any potential for bias. But in this case, the chronological order was available in the scans. We therefore asked Clearly to repeat their analysis using a properly blinded set of scans, which is standard practice in longitudinal studies. Clearly declined to perform a blinded reanalysis. Because of this, we commissioned an additional independent analysis from HeartFlow. HeartFlow has been a leader in the space and is the most extensively validated AI platform for coronary CTA analysis. The HeartFlow analysis was conducted with full operational blinding and completed right before the prespecified third and final quantitative analysis, which uses Medis QAN Geo. These two independent platforms were consistent with each other, yet both differed substantially from the Clearly results. As these independent results became available, we shared them privately with Clearly and again requested a blinded reanalysis of their original work. We offered to cover any costs involved, just in case that was the barrier to reanalysis. Clearly again declined. However, a new development emerged. Several participants requested their scans from the study and submitted them directly through their own personal cardiologist. This makes sense given any cardiologist with a proper Clearly account can appropriately submit scans on their patient's behalf. So, in a sense, our participants themselves were able to provide a portion of the blinded analysis we were originally requested. And this was then shared with me on behalf of the Citizen Science Foundation. In total, there are 19 of these individual submissions, which is about 10% of the total scans in our study so far. We're going to focus on those eight participants who have both a baseline and follow-up individual submission of their scans. Let's start with the four on the left, who all show an increase of soft plaque in both data sets. According to the original Clearly data, these four participants averaged an increase of about 17 mm cubed. One of them was up nearly 25. But when their individual submissions to Clearly were returned, three of the four scans had much lower plaque than what the study reported. And the one that came back higher showed a very modest increase. Overall, the average increase for these four scans dropped from about 17 mm cubed down to about five. Now, let's discuss the four on the right. In the Clearly study data, all four were counted as progressors averaging about 25 mm cubed of increase. One of them was up nearly 48. But in every single one of their individual submissions, the direction reversed completely. All four showed a decrease. On average, they went from an increase of 25 in the study data to a decrease of about 15 from their own submissions. The largest difference was one participant with an increase of 32 in the study analysis versus a decrease of 48 from their individual submission, a reversal of about 80. Overall, the median change in soft plaque for these eight participants was 20.6 in the original study data for a 31% increase, but just 0.7 from their individual submissions, reflecting about a 2% increase. And for the mean average, the study data shows an addition of 20.9 mm cubed, a 42% increase from baseline, but individual submissions show a drop of 5 mm cubed, an 8% decrease. In other words, on average, with these eight participants, the study data from Clearly shows soft plaque went up. The individual submissions from Clearly say it went down. Now, I want to zoom out for a moment and put these individual submissions in context with the other AI-guided analysis of the same scans. On the left is the original Clearly study analysis. 99 participants after excluding one who had a procedure between scans. 98% of participants showed an increase in soft plaque. Only two showed no change. Zero showed regression. In the middle are the eight individual submissions and on the right is the full HeartFlow analysis across 95 participants. While eight is a small sample size, the direction of change in these individual submissions is split right down the middle. 50% showing progression and 50% showing regression. Far closer to the HeartFlow analysis on the right than the original Clearly analysis on the left. It's worth emphasizing. Four out of the eight participants, fully half, with individual submissions received results showing less plaque in their second scan than their first. But after accounting for the single exclusion mentioned earlier, not one of the 99 participants in the original Clearly study analysis showed plaque regression. We're not sure what happened with the original Clearly analysis. We just know the other analyses are largely consistent and now that includes these individual submissions to Clearly as well. Of course, many will wonder if we're already taken steps regarding last year's paper that contained the original Clearly analysis and the answer is yes. We're working with the journal on that right now and we expect news on this very soon. In the meantime, you can check out the preprint of our current paper with both heart flow and Q Angio results in the link below. Importantly, it's worth noting that two principal findings reported in the original paper, that baseline plaque strongly predicts future plaque progression, and that apoB was not associated with plaque progression, were independently reproduced in both the heart flow and Q Angio analyses. I want to once again thank Dr. Budoff and the Lundquist team for providing these scans to study participants who request them. And if you're a participant in our study and interested in sending in your scans through your cardiologist, I'm happy to say we now have a budget to help cover the cost of that submission. You can contact us at info@citizensciencefoundation.org for more details. And thanks again to everyone for all your support.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: boEbNuyOkEI (https://youtu.be/boEbNuyOkEI) ===

Without further ado, our next speaker is from a small town in Wisconsin, a devoted homeschooling mom of eight, certified insulin IQ nutritional consultant, and a lifelong learner passionate about empowering families to achieve optimal health. Please welcome Sher Reef. [applause] >> Good afternoon. They thought I was short, so they got me a box. And now I feel a little too tall. It is an honor to be here. I'll see if I can work this. Hey, look at that. Okay, so I'm going to start with my conflicts. Um, I'm a certified insulin IQ coach and as my bio said, I have eight children and I am now the grandma of a beautiful baby girl. So, I would like to share some of my family's background and how four individuals have been failed by our healthcare system. This is my grandma. And she was raised through the Great Depression. She learned to live with very little. She was also raised to follow doctor's orders. Exactly. Grandma ate low fat because her doctor told her to. Never was there any mention of limiting processed foods, just keeping that fat low. Grandma's cupboards were filled with pretty much any highly processed foods you can imagine. And some of my fondest memories growing up were eating those foods with grandma. I still remember a dessert grandma made which consisted of white bread slathered with margarine and sprinkled with white sugar. I can still remember the feeling of the grit of sugar in my teeth. My grandma struggled with several health issues and in 2011 she was diagnosed with both dementia and very bad sleep apnea at the young age of 80. Nothing was ever said about her diet or lifestyle, and all that was offered were medications where the side effects made everything worse. In 2012, we had to move grandma to a dementia facility and there the food was highly processed with very little protein offered. Grandma [snorts] passed away shortly after Easter in 2014 in 2014. If we had known about the research we have on diet and dementia, we could have made changes and maybe have gotten some more time with her. But we were never offered this hope. My mom was a single parent until I was nine. And we lived on wick and food stamps, which meant having to go through all the government nutrition classes where we were encouraged to purchase highly processed foods. Mom would drink four to six cups of tea a day with two to three tablespoons of sugar in them. I guess you could say she had a little tea with her sugar. In 1995, she was in a coral in a horrible car accident which left her with her right foot paralyzed and she endured constant pain which led to becoming addicted to pain pills. She [snorts] also suffered with mental illness for most of her life. As things progressed, mom ended up in therapy for over a decade. Multiple meds were tried. None worked, and there were multiple stays in the hospital. One of the illnesses my mom suffered from was Munchousin syndrome by proxy, which means she would make her children ill to gain herself attention. When there were no more children at home, she would make herself ill to get attention. Suicide attempts were not uncommon for her as it was a way to get attention and someone would inevitably find her in time. In 2016, she took an overdose of her pain pills. Only this time, she wasn't that lucky. Through all the years of therapy, psychiatrist, and hospital stays, never once was her diet questioned or even looked at. Never was there any talk of getting her off of pain pills. Thanks to the work of organizations like the Bizooki Foundation and doctors like Dr. Eid, Dr. Palmer, and Dr. Sher, we know how much diet plays in helping with mental illness. And I can't help but wonder if her diet had been looked at that maybe things might have been different. But once again, we were never offered this hope. This is my husband and the love of my life, Ryan. He's a type 1 diabetic of 33 years. And at the time of his diagnosis, he was taught to eat to his insulin, which left his sugars very hard to control. There [snorts] were several occasions where he would have low blood sugars and then high ones, which led to erratic behaviors. At times, his A1C was up to 14. And for the majority of our marriage, he was never able to get it below 11, even though we were doing everything we were told. In 2002, he was placed on a long acting insulin and a separate short acting insulin, and this did help some. However, we were still told he needed to eat carbohydrates to go with his insulin. So, being a beautiful wife, I would measure and calculate all the carbs he was eating so he could take the exact amount of insulin needed. Guess what? Nothing changed. At least, not for the better. He ended up with stage 1 chronic kidney disease and diabetic retinopathy. At one point, we thought he might end up losing his eyesight because the hemorrhages were so bad they blocked his vision completely. He had several laser cauterizations and injections of ibuprofen directly into his eyes. Never once did any doctor or specialist tell us we didn't need to eat carbohydrates with every meal or even every day. Never once was a diet change mentioned. It was only through finding people like Dr. Bernstein and his work that helped us see we needed to do exactly the opposite of what we were told if we were going to have any quality of life. Ryan's A1C is now around seven and we are working to bring it lower which is a daily challenge as a type 1 diabetic but we are getting there and we have the hope we never had. [snorts] This brings us to my story. With my mom's mental illness, I would never know what mood she would be in, what might set her off, or if she would snap. So, my life was a life of constant terror. I won't go into detail, but after us kids were out of the house, the sheriff's department ended up doing an investigation, and the investigator said he had never seen a case that bad and had no idea how it went under the radar. So, there was a lot of mental trauma and physical damage to my body. The first time that my back went out, I was 13. I had bent over, fell to the floor, and couldn't move. As time went on, my body got less and less cooperative. And by the time I was 27, I was walking with a cane, and spent 18 months in physical therapy. I had a standing prescription of Tylenol with coding and Vicodin. Most of my life I spent dealing with severe anxiety and chronic PTSD. And in 2015, I was formally diagnosed with anxiety disorder, social [snorts] anxiety, chronic PTSD, and an attachment disorder. All that was offered were drugs. Having lived through my mom's mental mess, I didn't want to go down that road. So, I just fought these issues alone. There were days when the physical pain was so bad that I couldn't move, couldn't get off the toilet. It would take me 45 minutes to cross the living room and my back would lock up so that I couldn't move at all. One of the issues that my body had was losing weight bearing ability where I could fall at any point. These pictures were taken a week after my daughter's baptism. The morning of her baptism, I had a bad flare. So, just to get through the day, I was doped up on pain meds. And I couldn't hold her unless I was sitting because I couldn't risk dropping her if my body gave way. So, this meant there was no pictures of me holding my baby at her actual baptism. The following week, I made everyone dress back up in the exact same clothes, and we went back to church and took pictures. So, no one that would look at these pictures would know that they're fake. But I know I know my body betrayed me on such a special day and robbed me of something precious. Things [snorts] were so bad that I couldn't be the wife and mother I wanted to be or that my family deserved. It was either be in pain or be on meds. Because I really couldn't exercise, my muscles became weak, which increased my pain and made things even worse. This also affected my mental health and so it was just one big awful circle. I didn't want to end up like my mom addicted to painkillers or having uncontrolled mental illness. So it was always in the back of my mind. In two in October of 2011, we had a tragedy which changed things forever. I was 32 weeks pregnant with my eighth baby and I knew something was wrong. The medical team insisted everything was fine, so I didn't push for further checking. At 34 weeks, he was he passed away and was still born. This nearly pushed me over the edge mentally. But it's through this tragedy that we learned we had to be our own advocates. We had to push for answers when we knew something wasn't right. And that very moment led me to where I am right now. Never once was my diet or lifestyle brought up. Never once was inflammation brought up other than taking a thousand milligrams of Motrin every six hours. I also suffered with horrible reactive hypoglycemia to the point my sugars would drop to the low 40s and all I was told was to eat six to eight times a day and carry raisins in my purse. Finally, in 2018, I found Dr. Dr. Jason Fungs, the obesity code and learned about insulin and how it affected the body. This led me down the rabbit hole I have never come out of. In 2022, I finally found a healthcare provider that knew about complete testing and wanted to work with me to figure things out. I learned that my inflammation markers were off the charts. These numbers were four years after eating low carb and low inflammatory foods. So I can only imagine what they were before. While I'm not 100% painfree, and I'm not sure I ever will be, I am 98% pain-free, and my flares are infrequent and very mild. I haven't touched a prescription pain med in over five years, and my cane is fully retired. 10. [applause] Thank you. 10 years ago, I didn't think I could ever wear shoes that weren't sneakers. And never did I think I could be in Las Vegas talking to a crowd of people because my anxiety was so bad. I truly feel like I'm a walking miracle. These stories are not anything groundbreaking or special. They aren't losing 300 pounds or getting off of 12 different medications, but they are unfortunately what many folks go through. And they just don't know they have the power to make the difference in their own life. I wish I had known about great doctors like Dr. Eid, Dr. Palmer, Dr. Barry, and many more years ago for my grandma and mom because it could have made a difference. But we were never offered this chance or hope. I'm so thankful we did find them before it was too late for Ryan and I because we have our lives back. Everyone knows someone who needs this hope. The system won't change until we change it and we have to change it from the ground up. We must start with our children. If kids learned that eating whole foods like meat and vegetables are normal, they wouldn't have to turn to keto and carnivore as cures because it would already be their normal. Our children are the ones that will change the future. So, we need to start with them now. Last year, Dr. Barry said, "This is a revolution, and we need to be part of this revolution. So no more blaming the doctors because we have control of our own health and we need to use it. We make the changes so no one else will be failed by the healthcare system. Thank you. [applause] [cheering] [applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: kzC59cF-h1E (https://youtu.be/kzC59cF-h1E) ===

Our next speaker is a boardcertified OBGYn, ketogenic nutrition specialist, and integrative medicine fellow with a passion for fitness and preventive care. Please welcome Dr. Jamie Seaman. [applause] Thank you, Dave. You guys back from lunch? You got some food? I just had some uh keto brains in my coffee, so I'm ready to go. Well, thank you for having me. Uh, I was here last year when Dave asked me to come speak today. I said, "What do you want me to talk about, Dave?" I'm a gynecologist. [laughter] And he said, "I can't get over this idea that you opened a gym to coincide with your clinic." So, I'm a full-time practicing OBGYn, but I have a background in nutrition and exercise science. And today, we are going to talk about why I think it's more important to be strong and not skinny. So, you're going to hear a little story about about me. So, um, this is me right here on the left with my mother. And I grew up in Nebraska. That's where I practice medicine. And as a little girl, just like I have three daughters. I loved painting my fingernails and parading around my mother's living room in her high heeled shoes, but I also loved playing sports. So, I did gymnastics and I basketball and softball and swimming. And I tried all of the things. And I loved competing. I loved seeing what my body was physically capable of doing. But when I was 16 years old, my mother took me to an audition for a modeling contract and I went into this room and I did the interviews and I went through the whole process and the next morning I got a phone call. They wanted to sign me to their agency as a plus-size model. And this is a picture of me right here on the right. I was a size 10 or 12, which by modeling standards is apparently plus-size. [laughter] So thankfully, I turned down their offer and I went on to com compete in collegiate athletics at the University of Nebraska. Go Huskers. We actually played here at UNLV, so this brings back a lot of memories. But I played that I played softball at Nebraska and got a degree in nutrition and exercise science. So, of course, this is what I saw on the covers of my magazines when I was a teenage girl in high school and in college. And you can see that these women I'll let you form your own opinions, but this is what this is what healthy and and beautiful was was sold to me as a young girl. And then of course I go to medical school and these are the headlines that we see about how obese the world is and everybody is so unhealthy and you know come to find out the top three killers of women are heart disease and cancer and they're strongly correlated with obesity and metabolic disease. And then now we say that being like this is actually healthy. You know, the messaging is super powerful to to to young girls and to to young boys. And it's hard even as adults to figure out how to navigate this conversation. We see so much mixed messaging. I grew up in the 80s and 90s when everything was low fat. I was just telling my friend this weekend, I remember we were using spray butter. Everything was low fat, right? It caused heart disease. And my talk today is not about cholesterol. I'm sure some of you saw Dave's amazing documentary, The Cholesterol Code. We're going to talk about a different organ. But before we get there, you guys have maybe seen these CDC graphs. This is the 2023 version showing how obese our country is. And when I went to medical school, you know, how do we define Oh, whoa, now I'm going back. Sorry. Um, how do we define obesity? When I was in in my medical training, you know, they told us to use something called the body mass index. And the the trouble with the body mass index is it actually underestimates the fatness level of somebody who's overweight or obese. And for somebody that carries a higher percentage of lean tissue or muscle in their body, it actually overestimates that body fat percentage. We don't really use that in medicine. We're starting to see a few different modalities like um inbodies and SECA machines which are bioelect electrical impedance. So we're starting to see this in medicine but it's definitely not something that's routine. And then there's waist circumference. Now waist circumference all of these things are essentially a proxy. How do we screen or identify patients that are at higher risk for metabolic disease? I didn't include it in this talk, but I have an excellent slide that shows an MRI of two different patients that actually weigh the same and they have the same BMI and they have the same waist circumference. But between the two pictures, I should have just included it, but I'm going to describe it for you. There's an incredible difference in the amount of visceral fat that's located around the organ systems of these two individuals. So even in medicine, we're not really quite good or precise at identifying who is at highest risk for metabolic disease and the things that are most likely to kill us and make our life miserable. So let's talk about muscle and what is the role of skeletal muscle. Well, I think my three daughters could probably identify the first two things on this slide. That our muscles move our skeleton and allow us to move around the world and they help with our posture and our stability. But muscles also are an important part of heat production and our metabolism and energy storage. And this is the bullet point that most people in medicine didn't really learn about and don't really understand when it comes to preventing the things that eventually kill us or make our life really miserable. So muscle let's talk about what these different things are. So basil metabolic rate women come in all the time to my clinic and they say that you know they did xyz or they want me to check their hormones or that their metabolism is broken. So you know what really is metabolism? Well our basil metabolic rate this is essentially what our body is burning and using as energy when we're just hanging out not exercising not walking around. We know that the more muscle mass you have, you have a higher basil metabolic rate. So I work in women's health. I don't I don't take care of men, but there's a particular point in a woman's life where the metabolic rate is perceived to go down. A lot of women think when they get into pmenopause and menopause that their metabolic rate is going down and the metabolism is actually quite maintained, but what is really actually changing is their muscle tissue. and we're going to dive into that. Another important thing that muscle does is muscle is one of the most important disposal agents of glucose in the body. Our skeletal muscle stores glycogen. So does our liver. But our skeleton uh or our muscle stores glycogen and plays a very key role in glucose metabolism. So during contraction, you guys walked to lunch and you came back. even when you're just walking, during the contraction of skeletal muscle, the muscle is taking up glucose from the bloodstream. And it uses insulin to do that. And muscle, like I said, is the largest disposal agent. You can see this pyramid here over on the top right part of the slide. And I'm sure it looks really tiny maybe to you guys, but muscle is at the base of that pyramid. And the relative tissue contribution to glucose disposal, muscle is about 80%. So it's like a sponge for glucose. Then we have our visceral organs that use some glucose. Our brain. So these high metabolic demanding organs like our brain and then our heart is at the top. Fat metabolism. Our muscles also are an important part of fatty acid oxidation. And the more muscle we have, the more healthy lean tissue that we have in our body, there's actually more fat oxidation. So the more muscle tissue there's a higher mitochondrial density within the tissue. We have higher lipoprotein lipase activity which is the enzyme that helps break down fat for usage within the mitochondria. There's an enhanced hormone sensitive lipase activity. There's more fatty acid transporters on the membranes. There's myioine production which we're going to get to in a few slides. And we see lower visceral fat and myioattosis. And that is has a slide as well which is where we see fatty infiltration in the muscle amino acids. So our muscles are made from amino acids. And the way I describe this to patients is I think of amino acids like building blocks or little Lego pieces. And we have to have a certain number of Lego pieces if we were trying to build like Elsa's castle, right? You buy these little Lego kits and you're building cars or planes or whatever it is. If you were missing particular pieces of the Legos, you wouldn't be able to finish the project. Well, our body turns over amino acids continuously. So, on a daily basis, we are turning over about 250 to 300 gram of protein on a daily basis. If you're a man, if you're larger, if you carry more muscle tissue, it could be upwards of 500 grams. Now, we get some of this from our dietary protein and then our body does recycle some of our Lego pieces. It fixes them up, turns them into different Lego pieces and reuses them. But if you are in a fasted state, if you are in a stressed state, let's say you got COVID and ended up in a hospital bed or you were in a car accident and broke your pelvis and you you were immobile, any of these things, protein deficient diets, pregnancy, particularly the second half of pregnancy, these are all very catabolic states where the body is breaking down the lean tissue and breaking down our our our proteins essentially to use these amino acids. It's extremely important that we give our body the Lego pieces that it needs. And a lot of this is driven by leucine, one of the most important branch chain amino acids when it comes to the health of our muscle tissue. So let's talk about muscle as an endocrine organ. Remember this is that fourth bullet point on the slide of what does skeletal muscle actually do for our bodies. So when you contract your muscles, when you go to the gym, when Dave's doing his push-ups, we are releasing something called mioins. And these are part of our endocrine system. And they influence the metabolism of glucose and fat, the oxidation of these energy molecules within the mitochondria. And they also reduce chronic inflammation. They improve our insulin sensitivity within the cells. They protect our brain and actually support our mental health. Myioines also protect against cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and actually cancer. There's one particular um myioine that um has some anti-cancer properties and they regulate our muscle growth and our repair. So, I'm going to put a list of these myioines. Now, we could have a whole presentation digesting all of these different myioines, but these are all of the amazing things that your muscle tissue is putting out into your bloodstream when you're exercising and when you're contracting those muscles. So, just to kind of highlight a few, myostatin and folatin are essentially an uh kind of this agonist antagonist. One of them is anabolic and one of them is catabolic. Um the uh spark the spc is the one that has some anti-cancer benefits. BDNF stands for brain derived neurotrphic factor and I always think of this like miracle growth for the brain. So it helps with neuroplasticity. It helps um with our brain function and our cognition. All of these things are super important things that help us function and be awesome humans. Okay. So we can't talk about the endocrine system without talking about hormones as well. So, I work in women's health and so I want to highlight last year when I gave my talk, we talked a ton about estrogen and estrogen's role um in metabolic health. So, I want to talk about testosterone. A lot of people think of testosterone is just a hormone that men have, but women make testosterone as well. And actually, all of our estrogen is first made as testosterone and then it's converted into estrogen um in particular tissues and particular cells within the body. Testosterone is very important for the health of our muscle tissue. It's very anabolic um and it's anti catabolic. So, it preserves our mass especially when we're under stressful conditions when we're in a fasted state and especially as we age. In America, we have a huge problem with low testosterone um in both men and in women. And this is for a variety of reasons. Some of it has to do with our obesity problem because fat tissue contains an en enzyme called aromatase which converts our testosterone into estrogen. Um alcohol use um also tends to convert it into estrogen. There's a lot of reasons why we have low testosterone. Poor sleep, lack of sunlight, we're not exercising, we're not keeping our muscle tissue healthy. Um testosterone helps with our strength and power output. So if you have higher testosterone, you're going to be lifting a lot more in the gym. You're going to have a physically larger muscle fiber size within the muscle tissue. And you also have improved neuromuscular efficiency. So for our muscle tissue to contract so that we could do bench press, there's actually a brain muscle connection that happens. And you hear sometimes trainers talk about this mind body connection, but testosterone actually helps with that efficiency. It helps with recovery and repair. It helps reduce inflammation and it actually increases satellite cell activation within the muscle tissue. It also increases red blood cell production and red blood cells improve oxygen delivery to the muscle. So people that are on testosterone replacement therapy have to watch their red blood cell counts because you can actually >> [gasps] >> um get a condition called polyythemeia where you have too many red blood cells and then you need to go donate blood. And it also regulates fat distribution. Um, and so does estrogen. But men who have low testosterone and have a lower ratio of testosterone to estrogen, you guys have maybe heard of somebody like like who has a beer belly. So you'll see somebody that has kind of this round protrant belly. Almost looks like they're pregnant. A lot of that is actually low testosterone, high estrogen, and usually a high amount of visceral fat within the abdomen. So estrogen is also very important for our muscle tissue particularly for women because when a woman goes through menopause and becomes post-menopausal her male partner has more estrogen in his body than she does post-menopausally which is just crazy because most people do think of estrogen as the female hormone but it's really important for growth and repair of the muscle tissue. It also impacts our strength and performance and is very anti catabolic. So, in a patient who has not gone through menopause and is still making estrogen in the ovaries during a menstrual cycle and you're not on a form of birth control that inhibits ovulation, women may notice at particular parts of the month in something called the follicular phase when more estrogen is made that they actually feel a little bit stronger in the gym. They feel like they recover from their workouts better. They have less soreness. There's not an actual change in strength, but there definitely is a perceived the the rate of perceived exertion. Women feel like they can push a lot more weight when they're in follicular phase and they have that estrogen. It's very anti-inflammatory, like I said, so it helps them recover from their workouts. It also has a very important use within the mitochondria, and it influences fat storage. So our testosterone and our estrogen levels do change where we carry subcutaneous fat on our body and they change how much visceral fat we store deep down inside our bellies. So within the mitochondria, I actually did not know this when I was training to be a doctor. When I was going through my OB/GYN residency, I had no clue that estrogen affected our mitochondria. And I'm sure you guys have heard a lot about the mitochondria uh or if you haven't, I'm sure you're going to hear a lot about it in the next coming the next day. But in recent years, we have really kind of defined this role that estrogen has within the mitochondria. And what it does is it increases expression of different respiratory complexes, antioxidant molecules, anti-apoptic factors that all affect the structure and the function of our mitochondria. And when a woman goes through menopause and loses this estrogen, we see some profound metabolic impacts within the muscle tissue, within the tissue of other organs, within our within our fat tissue. And what happens to these women is they start to lose lean tissue, they start to gain subcutaneous fat, and they start to really increase the amount of visceral fat they have. And all of these things happening is increasing their risk of cardiovascular disease. I see these women all of a sudden their A1C starts to go up all just from the loss of estrogen. So what I want you to understand today is that strong people are less likely to die of anything. Strength is a predictor of what we call all cause mortality. So when you look at different studies, you'll maybe see things on social media that talk about grip strength, the sitto stand test, the push-up test, the rise from the floor test. I actually wrote um I wrote a book called Hard to Kill, and I explain some of these tests. But all of these things you can go home and test your spouse or your grandma or your grandpa or whatever it is. It's not that you know if you can squeeze a grip strength measurement device a certain you know pounds of pressure that you're not going to die tomorrow, right? You could go outside and be hit by a bus. But what it is is it's a proxy for how much skeletal muscle, how much lean tissue you have. And if you have a if you are strong and you have healthy lean tissue, you are less likely to die. Not of just falling and breaking a hip, but of cancer, heart disease, literally any cause. And the hip fracture data should really scare all of us. How many women in this room are worried about breast cancer? Show of hands. How many men are worried about their wife getting breast cancer or their mom? Or you've probably known somebody with breast cancer. Um, right. We have the pink out games where we we we hear a lot about breast cancer. More women are going to die from osteoporosis and hip fractures than breast cancer. You can go Google it. You can ask chatgpt. But the mortality rate of those things is higher than breast cancer. But it definitely does not get the headlines that breast cancer gets. And if you fall and break a hip after age 60, there's about a 10% chance you're going to die in the next month, about a 20 to 30% chance you will be dead by a year, and almost a 40 to 50% chance you'll be dead in the next 5 years. And that's because you fell and you broke your hip, which means your lean tissue and your bones are not strong. And these things al although we think of them as structural things with within the body they are tied to our metabolic health. And so it's very important that we care about our muscle mass and our strength because it it improves our resilience to disease and stressors. These examples I gave of getting into a car accident or contracting COVID or getting cancer and being bedridden. Those amino acid stores can protect you. Low muscle strength in every single study is linked to diabetes, to obesity, to metabolic disease, high blood pressure, inflammation, even lung conditions like COPD, dementia, Alzheimer's, it goes on and on. Okay, so there are some terms that we don't hear about a lot in medicine. Um, has sarcopenia, dipopenia, which I like to refer to as powerenia, and myiotosis. So these things are the age related loss of skeletal muscle tissue, the age related loss of strength and power and then meioattosis is fatty infiltration. So you can see this MRI here of a thigh. So this is basically we took a picture and sliced straight through someone's thigh. And on the left side we see this young healthy thigh muscle. It's got lots of healthy lean tissue. very small amount of subcutaneous fat. And you can see within that muscle tissue, we don't see a lot of, you know, black lines and marks. And then we see this sarcopenic thigh muscle on the right side. Um, it's it's very small. There's more subcutaneous fat and there's fatty infiltration into that lean tissue. We see a increasing loss of muscle fibers as we age and it's particularly our type 2 fast twitch fibers. Um, which is why when you see your grandma or your grandpa walking, right, if they were to trip and fall, they're more likely to end up on the ground because they've lost those fast twitch muscle fibers. They've still got their slow twitch, but there's also a neuromuscular decline. There's a weaker contraction in the muscle. Our reflexes are slower. Our testosterone is lower. Our estrogen is lower. Our growth hormone is lower. We're losing IGF-1 production. We have more inflammation, more oxidative stress, poor nutrition. My own father, it's really hard for him from a nutrition standpoint. He It's hard for him to get protein. I swear to God, the man could live on peanut butter. I'm not even kidding. Um, our stomach acid starts to change. So, the way that we digest and utilize um these nutrients and macronutrients is different. And then we get mitochondrial dysfunction. we get fatty infiltration not only in our muscle but we start to deposit fat stores within our heart um within our pancreas and then these organs don't work as efficiently as they used to. So this is the harsh truth. We actually start to lose muscle in our 30s but after age 40 there's a 1% drop in muscle size, a 3 to 5% reduction in strength and power and an 8 to 10% decrease in speed and explosiveness. So if you are not taking a strategy to prevent these things from happening, this is what's going to happen to you. And resistance training is the only nonfarmacological intervention that has been shown to consistently offset the age related decline in skeletal muscle mass, strength, and power. So how do we improve our muscle? Maybe I've convinced you that you want to be strong. Resistance training, like I said, is so important. It's not walking. It's not cardio. All those types of exercise are fantastic, but it has to be resistance training. They've done studies in women over the age of 60, and the amount of work required to see benefit is actually not as big as you might think it is. You can use resistance bands if you're just starting, but power training is what's important. And this is that speed and explosiveness. So this is things like highintensity interval training or sprint training. I know that sounds really intimidating to some people, but you have to do everything possible to try to maintain those fast twitch muscle fibers. And you need adequate dietary protein. In the United States, our recommended dietary allows protein is extremely low and it's set at that level to just prevent disease. But that doesn't mean it's optimal. Most men get about 80 to 90 grams. Most women are getting less than 60 grams of protein in a day. And it's the amount of protein they're eating with each meal is not high enough to create a stimulus for muscle protein synthesis. And that's all driven by leucine. So, if you can make it a goal to get 20 to 30 grams of protein with each meal, a bare minimum of 90 grams per day or one gram per pound of your body weight, you are doing a fantastic job. You also need to focus on sleep because that's important for our muscle tissue and that's where we get a lot of growth hormone production and hormone optimization. I could give an entire lecture on why I think hormone replacement therapy is extremely important for longevity and decreasing metabolic disease, but it's not the not the theme of the talk today. But I am a huge fan of hormone replacement therapy. So, in closing, do you guys know what the largest organ in the body is? >> I'm hearing skin and I'm hearing muscle. Skin is the largest organ by surface area, but muscle is the largest organ in the body by mass. Eat meat and lift weights. This is the motto that I want to leave you guys with. You can get enough leucine and amino acids through plant foods, but it's not an optimal strategy. So, I'm a huge fan if you don't have some ethical reason to not do it, um to eat animal foods. There's just more lucine at a lower caloric um amount. Um and when you're trying to get people to eat protein, it's not a lot, right, of uh it's just a couple ounces of steak or beef or chicken and then incorporating resistance training on a routine basis. So, thank you guys. We have two minutes and 20 seconds if you want to ask any questions. Otherwise, I'm gonna turn it back over to Dave. Nina, >> question. How does that work? >> Yeah, Nina's asking about the timing of eating protein versus fasting. So, >> be sure to repeat back the question >> for the camera. >> No, I did, Dave. I did. She's Nina wants to know when you should eat your protein, the timing if you're fasted. So, when you sleep all night long, you're in this fasted state. Or maybe you've intentionally fasted. Maybe somebody in here is fasting and you haven't eaten that first meal. When you eat that first meal of the day, we call it breakfast because it literally means break fast. Your body wants a large bolus of protein. And it has to be a large bolis. It can't just be a 10 10 gram, you know, one egg or a 10 gram protein bar. It needs to be 30 g of protein at that very first meal. and the very last meal. So when we break the fast and when we go into the fast, we need to have a large bulis of of protein that's going to give us at least that 2.5 gram threshold of lucine. Everything in between probably means less, but it's important at those two times. to 14 days. >> Yes. So the question is when you're doing these long prolonged fasts and this is fasting is a tool. Okay. Now when you're fasted most people are getting into a state that that involves ketosis and ketones are actually anti catabolic. I'm sure Dominic Dagasino is around here and could give a whole lecture on it. Ketones, ketones do help spare lean body mass. So, I think if people are using therapeutic ketosis as a strategy to combat insulin resistance, there is some protection of the lean mass. But if your strategy is to have the healthiest amount of muscle tissue and you have to put it all in context of your goals, I think fasting is a tool that can be used at certain points, but it gets to a certain point where you have to give the body the nutrients and and the amino acids that it needs at some point. And sometimes people have to reverse their insulin resistance and then switch their mindset of getting really strong. >> Thank you. >> I think we're out of time. Dave is going to kick me off the stage. >> I appreciate it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: CXVxlu54BsY (https://youtu.be/CXVxlu54BsY) ===

Our next speaker is a retired lieutenant colonel with a dis and distinguished prostadonist with decades of experience in both academia and private practice dedicated to restoring dental function and aesthetics for his patients. Please welcome Dr. Jeffrey Banker. Well, good afternoon. I'm here to talk about what I would refer to as the proper human diet with preventative solutions. Uh I attended last year at COSI and uh I was just amazed and kind of blown away by all the knowledge and information that I gained. Um and so it made me think what in my practice of dentistry for the past 40 years can I present that will help patients and perhaps enlighten you to some new treatment alternatives for prevention that you may never be able to hear or see. uh if you go and visit a dental office. So earlier I was here this morning talking to Steve that works in the hall before we went for our uh co-ai walk and he said the same thing. I was just absolutely blown away by the type of information that we present here and that people would really gain a lot of insight if we could do that. I'd also like to say thank you to Dave and Sharon for leading the walk this morning. It was very fun. I enjoyed that. All right. I'd like to say that I don't have any actual potential conflicts of interest. I just have a couple of uh clinical cases I'm going to show you uh to demonstrate uh what I do in my practice. So, we're going to talk a little bit about first about what the proper human dentic is. Um, and I'm going to divide in different groups and first talk about what carnivores are. I look at carnivores and I think about how their dentition functions. They have a jaw joint and their jaw joint basically just rotates. In other words, they open and slam shut in a very vertical direction. And so this allows them to bite and tear away their food. When we look at herbivores, uh we notice that their chewing mechanism is a little bit different. It's uh more of a horizontal or side to side chewing and therefore the posterior teeth are very flat as they chew and uh get their food prepared for digestion. So omnivores, what do we have? What's the proper human dentition? Well, what happens is we actually need a combination of both carnivores and herbivores. And so you need some of that lateral movement, horizontal, and you also need the rotational or vertical movement as we eat our food. When we look at the dentition, you think of the anterior six teeth as incizers. And these are more for the tearing or for example if you're trying to bite off some meat off of ribs you're going to use those front teeth. The posterior teeth are much flatter but human teeth in the posterior also has some cusps. And the reason why this is important is that those cusp even though shallow still allow some shearing capability and so you're able to chew your steak. So the human dentic is unique because our jaws can both rotate and translate. In other words, move up and down vertical as well lateral side to side. When you bite down all the way, the posterior teeth must support the jaw. If you were to lose all your posterior teeth and only the anterior teeth would come together, the anterior teeth would flare or move out and you get gaps between the teeth. So you need those posterior teeth to support the jaw. But when you slide your jaw to the side or forward, you may not realize it, but the posterior teeth lose contact. They come apart and it should not be in contact. And this is very critical for a feedback mechanism that allows uh the teeth to be properly preserved. So what causes dental deficiencies? missing lost teeth, poor alignment of the jaws. Some people have small lower jaws or very large lower jaws, and you may even have poor alignment between the opposing teeth where they're in crossbite or some other position. This is described in dentistry as mutually protected dentition where the back teeth and front teeth must work in harmony and there's a feedback control. So as I said earlier when the posterior teeth separate the amount of force or pressure is immediately diminished because you have to protect the weakness of the front teeth. This feedback mechanism though can be lost and when that feedback mechanism is lost this is what happens. So one of the things you'll note early on is we'll see something such as abractions. So on the upper teeth when they're not uh as you move your jaw lateral side to side, the posterior teeth are supposed to disengage slightly. If that does not happen, the increased lateral forces cause these notches or grooves up along the gum line. Now these are fairly severe in this image at at the top, but as it starts early on, you can literally take your fingernail and feel that notching if your teeth are excessively wearing. So you want to recognize this early on as a prostadonist. This is the case in the bottom of Steve where he has had a brookxinger grinding habit. And many patients do this at night while they're asleep. So they have no control over what's going on outside of the fact that they're recognizing that they're destroying their teeth. So for Steve, he lost some of the teeth on the upper right. So it required placing dental implants. And then my uh part of the equation is to go ahead and I have to place crowns on every single one of his upper teeth in order to restore the proper propriioceptive mechanism so he could go back to function normally. Now, of course, that's very expensive and timely. So, we want to try to prevent that. Also, sometimes you'll just simply have teeth that become mobile or loose if the bite is not ideal. So, one of the most common preventative measures that you'll get if you go and to a dental office and they look at your teeth and they go, you know, I think you're grinding your teeth or you're wearing your teeth down. And if that happens, usually they'll say, well, we can make this night guard for you. And you pop this in your mouth at night in order to protect the dentition. The only problem with this is is that obviously it fits over the tops of the teeth. And many people will look at it and you may go to your dentist dental office and they will suggest that you know if you need some teeth that need crowns or you need bridge work you better go ahead and get that done before you make this mouthguard so that it will fit properly. Um and also this is made by a modeler impression so therefore uh it's going to be fairly expensive for you to get. Now this is the device I'm talking about. It's a tongue stabilizing device. It's commonly referred to as a tongue bulb. And what's interesting is I've learned over the last few years that this is very helpful in stopping bxing, grinding, eliminating abractions. It's primarily sold as a device to help stop snoring. So that's one plus. As you can see down here, uh, in the image, the young lady in the lower right, I think is, uh, maybe annoyed by her spouse's, uh, snoring. Um, and I also learned later that it actually can be very helpful for sleep apnea. So, this is my patient here. This is George, and he has a history of snoring. He's lost some teeth, and he has obstructive sleep apnea. So, at the time that I delivered this device to him, uh, this was only sold by a dental lab and it was only sold to licensed dentists. Uh, so he said, you know, I'd like to try this to see if this would help me. So, this is what the tongue bulb looks like. He puts his tongue in it. We tried it. He took it off and on a few times, and he said, you know, I I think I can wear this. This seems to be fairly comfortable. Um, and u, you know, maybe this will help my situation. Uh it may also uh because you're simply wearing this and your tongue is forward. When your teeth attempt to do the bxing or grinding habit that can cause some of the damage to the teeth, I think the tongue offers as additional propriceptive mechanism that patients wear this, they don't do that habit anymore. And maybe there's a plus to help stop the snoring. Well, for George, we tried it on and off a few times, and I said, 'Well, let's have you come back in two weeks and see how you're doing with it. And so, two weeks later, after we had this initial insertion, uh George said, "Doc, I wore it every night. I slept great, except you didn't warn me." What do you mean, George? We We tried it on and off. I could see you could manage this very well. It's pretty simple to use. And he goes, "Well, here's what happened. My wife and I turned off the lights, slipped on the tongue bulb. I went to sleep. I was sleeping very soundly. Then all of a sudden, I got this crushing punch in the middle of my chest, popped the tongue bulb up, looked over his wife, and said, "Why'd you do that?" And she sat there and she looked at him and she says, "George, I've been living with your snoring now for years. I woke up in the middle of the night and I waited for you to snore. I didn't hear anything. I panicked. I thought you were dead. So, uh, anyway, and of course, she's a patient of mine too in practice and she sheepishly admitted that, but she says, "George, that's because I love you." >> [laughter] >> So anyway, um and George uh has a little more to this story in that he also had obstru obstructive sleep apnnea. And so he talked to his physician. He says, "You know, this tongue bulb thing is working pretty well for me." His physician said, "Well, let's find out. Let's do a sleep study and see how you do with this." And what George learned is if he is wearing a tongue bulb and sleeping on his side when they did the sleep test, he had no obstructive sleep apnea. And if you think about it, the tongue is the most likely thing to be the obstruction that leads to sleep apnea. By bringing the tongue forward, that's the main culprit. So he comfortably can wear this, remove it, and it completely eliminated his sleep apnea. So, that was a a very nice story to hear from him. And he came into my practice just last week for his usual exam and hygiene appointment. He's been wearing this now for eight years, wears it every single night. It's still the same tongue bulb. So, there's a good durability to this as well as the great result that he has something he can comfortably wear. When he tried CPAP, the mask he could not tolerate. This has been working very well for him. So, as you can see here, uh, this young lady is very happy that she's getting a very silent sleep at night. I would say the patients that wear these tongue bulbs, they also feel like they have maybe improved air flow. Uh, they get more restful sleep. Um, for patients that may have bxing habits or damage their dentition, um, it may be very helpful with them as well. At this time, it's no longer necessary to purchase this by a dental office. You can go to this site and you can buy one of these tongue bulbs for a fairly reasonable price. Uh, and it can be sent directly to you. It's FDA approved, but it no longer requires a dental office visit in order to take care of this. So that's my plan for sharing something that um I discovered and I think it could be a great benefit to many people. Any questions? Uh, I would say I was rather amazed the first time I tried it myself and then also when uh George wore it and most people wonder about that. Uh, it actually is amazing how it is and it's relatively comfortable. Now, it does come in three different sizes. Um, and so one of the questions is, well, what size do I need? Uh, about 90% of the public will wear a size medium. Um, you can ask your hygienist or your dentist, you know, what size is my tongue? Is it large, small, and different? We look at so many tongues all day long. We could probably give you a good answer or direction on that. Okay. Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: BlZsoX9qeUw (https://youtu.be/BlZsoX9qeUw) ===

Our next speaker is a nutrition researcher who transformed her personal health battle into groundbreaking work in both canine degenerative diseases and human nutritional consulting. Please welcome Lisa Emerson. Hello everybody. I was a bit of an overachiever and I decided to put 92 slides together. So I kind of had to dial it back. I cut 66 and I cut about a dozen and I cut about a dozen personal stories um from various people about their experiences and I figure that at some point I will record the entire bit and upload it to my website. But this is the talk I'm giving today and it should be decent. I have no conflicts of interest that I know of, but if you can think of any, please let me know. The importance of collaboration. Medicine is both an art and a science, requiring a balance of datadriven decisions with patient- centered individualized considerations and care. Shared knowledge and mindful decision-making empowers patients, improves adherence to treatment plans, and encourages providers and scientists that they're providing beneficial services and information. Interdisciplinary data, communication, and teamwork provide the groundwork for optimal health outcomes and for the authentic advancement of medical science. Now, there are different roles to this and we're going to go over the three obvious ones. The client, aka the customer or the patient. Their job is to be the main character in their story. They're looking for health care. They um are looking for knowledge about medicine and they have to be able to communicate what they are looking for to someone else. So, they need to communicate their condition, concerns, wishes, and preferences and then they have to go forth and be healthy. The provider is of the business, generally a physician, specialist, nurse, patient advocate, or health coach. Their role is to be the person with the specialized knowledge that the client hasn't dedicated their life to. So, they're the ones that are providing the skilled services with the knowledge. And they have to see to the patient in a decent way and provide information to them and meet the expectations and then maintain informed consent. The engineer is the investigative scientist. There is researchers. There there are academics, biohackers, other such roles. And this is other people with advanced knowledge that you look to for information. They uphold the scientific method and translate findings into usable information mostly for pro providers but also sometimes for clients. Things can happen to reduce collaboration. So concerns providers sometimes have about clients is that they lack the medical background to understand proficiently what's going on. um and they have to explain more. Um they might have a the client might have a challenging interaction style or family members that make it difficult. Um other issues that they can have um provide incomplete or incorrect information to the provider so that they can't help them appropriately. The provider uh the clients are concerned that they might have restricted access to a provider. They might have, you know, different interaction styles, uh, fragmented care with multiple providers or just with one provider. Uh, and, you know, they they worry their provider might not care enough to investigate for them. Engineers, um, concerns that others might have is that they might provide incorrect or incomplete information or not follow the scientific method or have transparency. So, but what they think about themselves is their main concerns about themselves are the client feels ignored sometimes um or is able to access or afford health care. That happens a lot. So, that's the general primary concern that's been brought to my attention. Providers, their concerns are they just don't have enough time. Sometimes the clients don't comply and they don't feel like they're helping them in that way and also there's burnout. engineers um the ones other ones I've talked to uh agree that you know there are sometimes their information that they give is not universally applicable so it's not helpful to everyone or just a small number um or you know their their findings can be misunderstood or misapplied that happens a lot now everybody in the audience is a client at some point in their lives and some of us wear multiple of these hats and that's the fun part but if we aren't familiar with each other, it makes it difficult. So collaboration equals reduced burdens. If we have a collaborative mindset, we can do a better job both addressing and avoiding these concerns. So there are some keys to a collaborative approach. Remembering the purpose. You're there for the client. Defining parameters by setting personalized and prioritized expectations and goals. communicating clearly and respectfully and relating knowledge and actively listening, engaging, troubleshooting, um teachability, even uh follow through, following up and taking ownership and we'll get to some of that. So part of the expectations can come into time management. So when a client makes an appointment with a provider, they need to know what they're coming to the provider for. What do they want? What do they expect out of it? They need to be on time and they need to be prepared uh with a list of questions or concerns they have and then have their lists of information ready to go so there's no time wasted and they can get what they want out of the experience. >> So we moved to LA. My father gets a job at the Palm Restaurant. My uncle Junior works there who was a Jehovah's Witness. Believe it or not, he went from Catholic to Jehovah. >> So the point is don't wander off topic. There's a lot of wasted time and and the it cuts down on just everything you can get done in your appointment. But, you know, if they have time, talk away. And you have to recognize that not all appointments have to be packed full of content. Sometimes they're just simple, quick, easy follow-ups. No big deal. Providers are much the same. They need to get an idea of what the patient is after when they're making the appointment. And that way they can, you know, set the time and expectations and come up with ideas ahead of time before the client shows up. Uh, also one great thing is to actually read what you have the clients fill out before the appointment. That way you're not repeating things. And of course, plan enough time within reason. Get your money, [music] man. [music] >> That happens a lot. But what you can do as a provider is if it's going long, you can redirect the client and if necessary, you can reschedu and make sure they understand, you know, time. And as the provider and as the client, it applies both. be on time and be present and focused. If you can't do that, you need to work on that because that's going to cause a lot of problems. >> Hey, Bill, how's the heart attack going? >> It hurts. I'm in so much pain. >> Great. Patient's a 35-year-old morbidly obese male with no complaints today. Hey, so I just sent over eight new prescriptions to your pharmacy, and I'll see you back in 3 months. Okay. >> Uh, okay. But you didn't even address any of my concerns. >> I try to lose about 20 lbs. Okay. patient was counseledled on the importance of losing weight, diet and exercise. About 30 minutes was spent counseling. >> You might be familiar with that. Maybe not. I hope not. I hope your experience is fantastic. But it does happen. And if you're um a traditional provider, that's fantastic. If you're a more modern government corporate insurance-based provider, you might be overloaded with administrative paperwork. That happens a lot, and that's where that typically happens. So just have expectations on both sides and understand where you're going to fit and try to work with each other. So your client needs to feel like you're in their corner. You need to tailor their health care to them. Uh suggest what you find reasonable, what might be outlandish for where they are. Uh again, manage expectations, time frames, involves involvements, and costs so they have an idea. Uh make the health navigation process easier. uh ask if there's anything in advance that they might need help with because you're the one doing it every day. They they don't know. And for the client, you are both in charge of and the most active part part of your health team. Don't shy away from explaining your concerns. And don't be embarrassed about bringing up your concerns because everybody has something, right? It's not a big deal. If you're confused about something, ask at each step. Let them know and get feedback on what you can do to help and keep in contact with them. you know, help them help you. So, respect and openness. Take one another seriously. Don't minimize or dismiss. Assume good faith. Uh, multiple perspectives are not only useful, but are sometimes quite valid. So, you want to show interest and learn something on both sides to improve your outcomes. And your provider has a solid knowledge, but they don't know everything. They can't remember everything. So you have to give them some grace there. And but the thing is you should know about yourself so when you walk in again that's part of preparedness so that you can know what you have and help them. Providers again they don't do this every day but you do. So kind of anticipate what they might need. Um and what they really need to know is that you care and that you're willing to help them with their situation. Um, part of that is not abandoning them. So, for instance, one thing you can do to show you care is that if you have a new patient and you say, "Hey, I don't know, go see a specialist." Well, they feel abandoned, right? Then, you need to actually invest some time and care into their their struggle. And that's um yes and interdisip interdisciplinary information is invaluable. speak with their other health care providers so that there's not fragmented care and everybody knows what page they're on so there's no confusion. Better communication equals better compliance. If they can't understand you, compliance will suffer. Client education. Improve trust in the provider and in the process. Informed consent. Ask your provider what your risks are for anything that might be going on or anything they might like to do to you. um have things adequately explained to them, adequately explained to you. And then you have to give informed consent. You're treating an individual, not a statistic. Recognize that all science studies published are not necessarily good science. And you, unless it's an emergency, you have to obtain voluntary informed consent. Uh to highlight that point, I will do so with song. Popular. I don't care if you're popular. If you've got a friendly face or style and grace or degrees they can't ignore. If they don't say yes, then the answer is no. No. Thank you. Can we have a moment of silence for poor Beaker there? Because the song is for him. So breakdown of trust mismatched expectations that's a very common issue not making an effort one side or the other you have to put in the effort you want to get out of the situation lack of coordination again fragmented care can result leading to confusion interactions things like that compliance when they don't understand or can't access treatments collaboration stalls frustration builds and dissat dissatisfaction results on both sides Trust is built on authentic communication and competent follow-through action. If you don't maintain trust, things can go wrong. The client might fall away from you. They might not get decent health care. They might get unproven health care. They might actually make themselves worse. And then they don't trust the system. So, you have to work to provide education, empathy, and options. Now, you know, not all clients will work out with a particular provider. Um, if that's the case, that's understandable. Sometimes the provider doesn't work with the client. I mean, there are conflicts. Sometimes if it doesn't work out, it doesn't work out. But if it's not working out, you don't have to stay married to this person. I mean, you can get on with your lives and kindly let them know and, you know, have great success with another provider. Keep communicating. Get test results back without being prompted, without them having to chase after you. Provide feedback to one another and don't gatekeep feedback. Remember that you're there to help one another. Did you get the help you needed? Fantastic. If not, see what you can do about it. Providers, did you give the help that they needed? You're going to know the answer to that because you're going to communicate with them. And if you didn't necessarily help them, sometimes that happens. And you just have to learn something from everybody you work with because if you're not learning, you're probably doing it wrong. And unless you're very lucky, nobody cares more about your health than yourself. So always advocate for yourself. If you don't feel comfortable advocating for yourself, find someone to do that for you. There are people out there who can do that. Don't force yourself to be in poor situations. This is not what you want to end up with. This is what we want. Success for all parties involved. That's the goal. Client satisfaction, provider satisfaction, behindthe-scenes nerd satisfaction. All of this matters and all of it requires collaboration. >> And ever since it's been damn good times. I'm feeling very, very happy and I've never felt healthier. I have a good life. Thank you. >> Thank you. [applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: xYzOQBjMs4g (https://youtu.be/xYzOQBjMs4g) ===

Our next speaker is a passionate coach who overcame food addiction and now empowers thousands with sustainable evidence-based strategies to transform metabolic health and reverse insulin resistance. Please welcome Roxanna Sodabir. [applause] >> All right. So my name is Roxanna Zodier. I'm a metabolic health practitioner, a nutrition network practitioner, a primary health and fitness coach, and I'm one of the coaches in the Dr. Barry community. I hope he's somewhere. Oh, there he is. And I co-hosted last year's kick sugar summit metabolic health edition. I have only one disclosure. I have a um health coaching business. All right, this should so show someone on the side. Um, anyways, imagine waking up every morning powerless over your food choices, the constant cravings, the shame, and really I had no hope because everything I tried didn't work. So for many of us, sugar is just food and you could debate that too. But for some of us, it's different. It's the cocaine we can eat. Uh sugar addiction when you can't give it up or when you don't want to give it up or oh sorry the clicker is not working right. Um when you're not giving it up despite it causing harm, despite it making you sick and unwell. So what is addiction? I learned this from Bitton Johnson. Addiction is a brain disease. It is not a lack of poor willpower or it is not a character flaw. It's actually where do I have to point this marked by loss of control and it's a chronic disease. Once it's there, it's always there. Imagine a path paved in the brain. Once it's there, the brain never forgets this path of reward. But there's good news. Sorry. Uh remission is possible. In my case, it means I no longer obsess about my addiction at every waking moment. So, um I'm going to go through my sickness journey um quickly. Um, this is the happy, no unhappy me about six years ago. The result of 30 years of yo-yo dieting mixed with sugar addiction and a dash of autoimmune disease. Um, I was diagnosed in my late 20s with inflammatory arthritis. It really went downhill from there. I was diagnosed with nash, that's inflamed fatty liver, one step short of cerosis, um, that's reversed. I was diagnosed with stage 3A chronic kidney disease. That's reversed. I was diagnosed with Hashimoto. Still have that gird. That's gone. And insulin dependent type 2 diabetic. That's reversed. Thank you. [applause] I also weighed in at over 300 lbs and um that's a new category actually um super obesity and that's reversed. I'm now overweight. So my addiction journey I have very early memories of hoarding sweets in a little hat in my closet constant access. Then when I was going outside to play, I always carried sweets on me and I have a distinct memory that the other children didn't. And I thought it was kind of weird. And then I noticed I was the odd one out. And then I picked up smoking at the age of 16. And um then to manage arthritis pain, I was put on Oxycontton. So Oxycontton is synthetic heroin. And I was going through daily roller coaster in between doses of um crushing withdrawal symptoms. So they added a dose. They didn't split, they added a dose. And then I was addicted to sugar. So um many people give me uh push back on social media. They say, "No, sugar can be addicted. No one eats sugar from a sugar bowl." And yeah, that's true. It's a little more complicated than that. But um eating hard candy, which is basically sugar with some flavor, I broke off a tooth. And you'd think I learned my lesson, but [music] I didn't. I broke off another tooth. Only when I stopped eating sugar was I able to control that behavior. So to get better, I needed hope. That was the first step. And that came in the form of a lecture by Dr. Steven Fenny. So here we are after I told him uh how he saved my life and I was really emotional. So we both cried and my nose was actually that red. Um getting better. I also needed a plan and that plan I could talk about this for hours but I think not today. So uh I needed baby steps. If you do everything at once that's overwhelming. You can't do that. If the first step is too high, you can't reach. You can't start. You need small attainable goals and that's doable. So that's me on the left and I still change things around one day at a time. It's really funny. You can do everything for one day and then the next and then the next and that's how habits or that's how change um happens. So um managing triggers um anything you cannot put down is a trigger. So you want to avoid that. Triggers can also be not food related. Let's say driving by a fast food restaurant by your favorite fast food restaurant. But uh if you're confronted with a food trigger, ask yourself, is this one bite worth it? How will I feel right after or after five minutes or an hour later the next day? As any sugar addict can attest, one bite is too many. A thousand byes is not enough. Community support. You don't have to do this on your own. Go find your community. You'll have confidants. You have peers with the same struggles, as odd as they might seem. You will have accountability. and find your favorite influencers like hard to see against the light but I think there are some here in the audience and your family of course if they on board and also know that no one is perfect I like to think of it as the 8020 rule so it doesn't mean strive for one uh for 80% no strive for 100% but be okay with 80 and then of course you need vitamin P what's that Right. So, um I learned that from Dr. Barry. So, um there are going to be hiccups. The brain really needs time to heal and this is not a comprehensive list. I mean, so on social media uh we often get push back and um also unsolicited advice from family. Uh you don't need to read along. I'm just going to um point out the important parts. I was um I did a public service announcement. I told them that I was going to add some yogurt and nuts and berries after about five months of carnivore. And going into December, I was going to add more foods. I didn't make any special mention of the holidays. So, I got this response. Good luck. I think you should let yourself enjoy some feasting over Christmas and New Year's then get serious in January. And then that was followed by some uh fasting and detox tips. And I said, "Uh, no can do. I'm a sugar addict." And she responded. She insisted. Who said feasting had to include sugar? However, never ever eating a piece of pie on a holiday or some cake at a wedding for the rest of your life is pretty grim and is a pretty grim and joyless future. Life is a balance. After a feast, you fast and get it out of your system. I admire his stamina, but having an occasion occasional indulgence is normal and not the same as an alcoholic going on a drunken vendor. The police won't give you a DUI for driving under the influence of too much dressing or cranberry sauce. I'm afraid you're setting you up for failure. So, um, in a life before keto, in a life before remission, this would have made perfect sense to me and it would have been my excuse to relapse, to indulge in whatever, to relapse hard, not for days, not just for weeks, but for years. So, this was a pretty sobering experience. Why am I so passionate about this? Sugar is not acknowledged or recognized as a substance of abuse. Um, as of now, sugar does not meet the DSM5 substance abuse criteria. Here they are. Some of them um touch on urges, cravings, wanting to cut it out, not managing to. These match my own experience and these match the experience of many others. Sugar addiction checks all these boxes. And here's Dr. Jen Amin. She's advocating to do just that, have ultrarocessed food um recognized as um addictive. And she sent us a message. >> Hi everyone, it's Jen Unwin here from the UK. I wish I could be there with you, but this is the second best thing. Thanks to Roxanna who asked me just to hop on and give you a quick update on the work we're doing multiprocessed food addiction. So firstly, there has been a submission made to the American Psychiatric Association to get this condition recognized by Ashley Garton and colleagues. We previously made an application to the World Health Organization um to get UPFA included in the ICD and they rejected that. So we're planning our response that'll be going in soon. myself, Adrien Satamoto and David Whis are hosting a frontier special issue on ultrarocessed food addiction. Still taking um submissions for that. So uh please join in if you've got a paper, any data at all on mechanisms, outcomes and our next ultrarocessed food addiction uh international conference. It's going to be the fourth and 5th of September in London. And then finally, very quickly, um I'm really excited that we've now submitted our paper which is looking at 12 month follow-up results for our low carbohydrate real food and psychosocial support intervention. And um this is a bit small but basically what it shows that after a sort of 10 10 week program basically focusing on real low carbohydrate diets and giving people some support and education at 12 months we're seeing really fantastic results for food addiction symptoms both on the Yale food addiction scale and on the craved screening scale which we've developed from the ICD. What you can basically see is that where the colors are getting lighter in the second columns that's showing that people have fewer um food addiction symptoms at follow-up and it's highly significant people really coming out of the severe category on the my fast and into the no food addiction which is that light blue category. That's a sneak peek for you all of a little bit of citizen science on octopuses food addiction. So enjoy the conference everyone and hope to see you soon. Bye now. >> So this was awesome. Um in summary, um if you are addicted to sugar, remember there's always hope. If you are not sure if you're addicted, try cutting out sugar just for a month. And pay attention to how you feel. Pay attention to sorry pay attention to um how it affects you how often you have to think about it and see if you can actually cut it out if you can go without you'll know soon enough uh recovery is possible I'm living proof uh find your support community and if I there's one thing I want you to take away if we work together we can make change happen as it For me, I never want to go back to where I was. I know what sugar do to me. Nothing tastes as healthy as as good as healthy feels. Thank you very much. [applause] Here the QR codes. The first two are for Dr. Jen. Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 43gZ_LN7dtU (https://youtu.be/43gZ_LN7dtU) ===

for our next speaker. He has a PhD in molecular medicine, former mitochondrial researcher, and founder of Physionic, dedicated to bridging the gap between science and public health while sprinkling in a bit of humor. Please welcome Dr. Nicholas Verhovven. [applause] Well, hi everyone. Hopefully you can hear me. I should be good. So, I was pleasantly surprised by the conversation I walked in uh this morning. You guys were talking a lot about mitochondria. So, this uh should hopefully be informative and helpful. So, I'm going to be talking specifically about exercises effects on mitochondrial adaptations and we're going to define exactly what that is. So, terms of my conflicts of interest, uh I'm independently funded. I have a small business where people pay to have access to some of my research. I release about 80% of the research that I come across. I create videos on YouTube, so they're freely available. And then there's a small subset of research that I lay aside. >> Speak up just a little bit. >> There's a small subset of research that I do uh that's for this private platform, which is how I make the money that I do. So, I can do this uh without taking sponsorships or anything of of that nature. So, allow me to introduce you to the mitochondria, which I'm sure I see I hear a few people already know what that is. I'm not exactly shocked. And you may have heard this line before that it is in fact the powerhouse of the cell. However, we will be going far more into depth on exactly how mitochondria affect our cells. So, what is a mitochondria? Well, here we're looking at, if I can figure out how to use this. Okay, so here we're looking at different uh organels. And a mitochondrian is one of these organels. So, we've got a cell here. We've got uh endopplasmic reticulum. We've got a Golgi apparatus. We've got peroxomes. Don't worry, you don't need to know what those are. Just know that they're different components of our cell. And mitochondria also belong in that family, that overarching idea of organels. So, I thought it'd be cool to show you some actual images. Uh, so I've worked in a lab for about 10 years looking at mitochondria, doing mitochondrial experiments, things of that nature. And if you use a particular type of microscope, you can look and see the christe and structures of mitochondria. And this is what they they look like. So they look pretty similar to how this illustration shows it. However, if you look in particular other types of cells and you use different types of microscopes like what we used in the lab, you'll see that mitochondria on the left side here are extremely elongated and mitochondria are incredibly plastic. They have an ability to adapt to our nutrition. Uh they have an ability to adapt to all kinds of different stimuli as we'll as we'll get into. So they can either become incredibly elongated or they can become really small and just like we see on the right side there. But that really doesn't tell us really what mitochondria are. Just kind kind of elucidates that. Okay, they're an organel, but they don't tell us why it's they're so important. So why are they important? I'm going to detail a few, but certainly just be aware that mitochondria are important in so many other ways that I can't get into in this discussion. It's always dangerous to get a researcher up here to discuss his work because uh they'll just go on and on and on. So the first one is cell energy. So just uh make a note of this ATP synthes. This is a particular protein that is going to come up uh one or two more times after uh I present it here. So essentially when you think of mitochondria as the powerhouse of the cell just know that it's due to this protein and really a complex of proteins that we'll get into. So one of the main benefits, one of the main most important aspects of mitochondria are their ability to generate cellular energy. Another one is counterintuitively is cell death. And we'll get into why that's important, but there's a series of proteins, a family of proteins. They're a rather aggressive family of proteins called the BCL family and they kind of antagonize each other. So if a group of that family become becomes overly abundant then uh it causes cell death and mitochondrial death and if another one does then it stops cell death and it stops mitochondrial death but it is extremely important for our health and I'll explain why as well as cell signaling. So mitochondria produce these different molecules like reactive oxygen species that are associated and linked to uh well actually positive as well of oxidative stress which is a word that you've uh likely heard before because it's typically seen as a negative for our health. So mitochondri complex of proteins and you might actually recognize one of them. We've got the ATP synthes right there. That's the same one here because it's the terminal protein in this complex of proteins that allows for energy generation. So to dive into that a little bit more on the energy generation side, why is energy generation important? Well, again I'm just going to list a few of them, but enzyme activity is one of them. So you've got these functional proteins that are inside your cells that they need to use this energy molecule ATP adenosine triphosphate which is highly abundant in the cells and produced by mitochondria for these enzymes to function. Without ATP a lot of enzymes just don't function. The cell just ends up uh dying off. Another one is something like exocytosis. So when you think of like the release of hormones, when you think of the release of different components of the cell so that they can communicate to other cells, they have to go through this process of exocytosis. So taking molecules that are produced within the cell and just releasing those into the mu. So then that can be uh sent to these different other cells. That's an ATP dependent process. And then muscle contraction, we're talking about a little bit about exercise in the panel before, which was really great. In this situation, we're talking about ATB being involved in AT in muscle contraction as well. So that's just three. Now to talk about this BCL family and why it is important. Well, there are different fates for cells and in certain cases we want cells to die. Uh the reason for that is because there is a close link to cancer. So if our cells don't have the ability to force themselves to die, then they can develop into a cancerous cell. And in certain instances, you can have uh functional mitochondria or have mitochondria that don't undergo this cell death process through this this BCL family of proteins and it can not necessarily but it can ultimately lead to cancer. However, because we have this BCL family of proteins, they can get triggered to essentially uh become far more pro- mitochondria death uh focused and therefore you have a bunch of mitochondria that die, cell energy drops and the cell ends up going through what's called program cell death or apoptosis. So, but the you know general term is cell death. So extremely important and then finally to discuss a little bit on the cell signaling like I mentioned there can be the production of reactive oxygen species as well as other molecules mitochondria also involved in hormonal regulation but there's a whole list of different ways that uh reactive oxygen species can affect uh these different enzymes and and different processes within the cells from an inflammatory response growth stimulation antioxidant production which is what I'll focus on apoptosis like we just went over. So reactive oxygen species can play an important role in that as well and certainly much more than that. So why are mitochondria important? I mean we've now we've gone over the cellular aspects but we can actually take that out and just make that a more realistic a realworld scenario as well. So why are they important? Well they're important in diabetes. They're important in cancer and there's different theories of cancer even around mitochondria as well. They're important in arthritis. They're important in a whole host of different diseases. Cardiovascular disease which is a major focus of of uh this conference as well as well as a asthma, Alzheimer's disease and the list honestly could go on and on. So there's a link between mitochondria and these different disease states. So then the question is how do we improve our mitochondria? How do we improve it over time? So before we get to that, I'd like to define how we're going to show improvements in mitochondria. So just saying, oh well, exercise may improve mitochondria isn't a very convincing argument. We have to actually show some evidence for that. So what I'm going to do is we're going to look at energy generation, cell signaling, and then another aspect of mitochondrial health, which is called mitochondrial biogenesis, which is essentially the generation of new mitochondria within your cells. So let's focus on cell energy generation first. And the tool that we're going to look at, if you're a fan of the band, that's great. I am, too. But the tool that we're going to be looking at is exercise. Okay, so this is the the general format. I'm going to give you a little bit of specifics on uh the on the outline of the study and whatnot, and then we're going to look at some of the results. And I'm just going to point out just a few studies for each uh category just because I don't want to overwhelm with uh with a ton of data and whatnot. But from this study, what the researchers did is they looked at different cohorts, so different groups of individuals at different ages. And some of them were active. So we see young active there around 31 years of age. We've got older active individuals. And then we've got individuals that are also older but inactive. And then they chop their leg off. No, they didn't. Uh but they did probe their their their leg muscle. And then from there they measure mitochondria ATP generation. And as you can see here, the comparison of the three conditions that the ATP production rate was about the same between the active groups, but was severely diminished in the group that was inactive. So that's one piece of evidence that would indicate that exercise or just being active in general can have a tremendous effect on our mitochondrial function as a whole. Then just to to put this out further, there's another study and there's certainly more studies than what I'm going to be presenting here and I've got the references. I think that you're going to get a PDF of all of our presentations. You're going to see uh all the references there so you can dive into it a little bit deeper. But for this study, this was a a much older study. They looked at individuals that were before training, so they were sedentary individuals. And then they again probe their musculature to to measure uh mitochondrial ability to generate energy. And then they had them undergo an exercise routine for I believe six weeks. Measured again and then they did uh had them drain. So stop exercising for I believe three weeks. And ultimately what they showed is that after exercise all you need to see is that the numbers are increased. And you you'll see the substrates on the left side. Those are different uh ways of measuring mitochondria. So, we're not going to worry about that for the time being, but there was a substantial increase in the ability for mitochondria to generate energy and a slight decrease once they stop being active. So, that's a lesson right there. So, on energy generation, if you want more resources on that, again, all the references are listed at the end of the presentation. So, uh that'll be made available for you. But, uh these two references are really fantastic summaries. The next one that I'd like to go over is defining the improvement in cell signaling. So for cell signaling, I'd like to quick introduce you to I don't know how many of you uh have a strong biology background, but when we do different measurements for in cell biology, you can you can look at different molecules and one of the molecules that we look at is RNA. So when your genes are essentially uh transcribed into uh the the readable structure that ultimately leads to the production of these functional proteins, it's RNA. And this RNA is one way, but it's it's kind of an imperfect way to look at uh different measures of cell signaling within the cells. But I wanted to introduce it just so you have an idea of like where this is happening. So you have your cell membrane here. So we're zooming into this section cell membrane. We've got a nucleus here. We've got all these genes that are that are wrapped up and they get wrapped up through uh well I won't go into it. The the point is that they get all wrapped up and they can be loosened up so that these different gene reading proteins can go in there and start producing this RNA. So that's what we're measuring here. So that's why I introduced it. So for this study again they're looking at young inactive individuals versus young active individuals. It should say active individuals there. My apologies. And what they showed is that sod 2, so this is an antioxidant protein, but here we're looking at the step right before it becomes a protein called RNA. We see that it's increased in the exercise condition. So the active condition another measure because again I don't want to focus just on RNA and there's very specific uh cell biology reasons for that uh we can also look at protein which is the the end product that we're most interested in. And in this study they had uh four different conditions. They had a control condition so sedentary individuals. Then they had people that were sedentary that ended up doing a weightlifting program. Then they had a group that did aerobic exercise. So think of like endurance exercise. And then they had a group that did both. And then they took uh blood samples and measured the amount of glutathione, which is one of these antioxidant proteins that's able to eliminate a lot of these reactive oxygen species. And we can see that in all the exercise conditions just as a whole that there's an increase in these glutathione proteins. and we don't see that in the control. So again, some more resources for looking at antioxidants and cell signaling just as a whole. Uh I would definitely check out uh these reviews. Oh, also uh this one, I actually mentioned this one uh in the previous section. So this is kind of an all-encompassing way of looking at exercise's role on uh mitochondrial health. And then finally, I'd like to go into biogenesis. So, just to give you a brief background because there's so much more to biogenesis than what I'm going to go over. Your mitochondria have this ability to adapt. As I mentioned earlier, so for that to happen, you have a whole host of different proteins. These again, these functional proteins within the cell that have to serve a function. And one of those key proteins for biogenesis is a protein called PGC1 alpha. And that's what we see here. A very rudimentary diagram of it. Another protein that's involved in this although we're not going to be uh looking at that is DRP1. So those blue pro these blue proteins here are proteins that essentially uh attach themselves to mitochondria and they create this collar around mitochondria and start squeezing and squeezing and squeezing until the mitochondria split apart. So the membrane closes on both mitochondria and then they can separate. So now you've effectively generated new mitochondria from a single mitochondria. It's a really fascinating process and there's many other proteins that are involved like I mentioned. So let's uh look at that a little bit. So again here we're looking at different intensities of exercise over time. So we don't have a control like a sedentary condition but we have a high intensity group high intensity exercise and low intensity exercise. So low intensity being like long duration exercise compared to for example high intensity which might be shorter duration. As a matter of fact the panelists were talking a little bit about that as well. So in this example when we're looking at PGC1 alpha levels here we're looking at RNA levels then we see that there's a an increase in both conditions but there's a a substantial greater increase in the high intensity condition. So based on this, we see after the three-hour mark that there's this increase with exercise and that's relative to baseline or previous to uh exercise. Okay. So for the next section I wanted to discuss a little bit more on these complexes and I mentioned that you should keep this uh ATP synthes in mind over here and the reason for that is because sometimes it's considered part of it sometimes it's not considered part of it but there's this complex of proteins called the electron transport chain and I'm not going to go through you know all the biochemistry and all that stuff it's not that important the point is that they this complex of protein is what allows for this energy generation that we were talking about earlier. So you have this exchange of electrons, this handoff of these 2E. So these electrons move from complex to complex and then eventually that allows for this ATP synthes which is a rotary protein which literally literally rotates and allows for the production of this ATP. So what's called as refphosphorilation of an ADP molecule. So a a a lower energy state. So from a lower energy state to a a higher energy state. So the reason why I'm mentioning that here is because we have another study and again I have to stress this. There are many other studies that look at this kind of stuff and we can see that in the exercise conditions not for all the complexes. So we're looking at different complexes. Let me go back here real quick. Uh just so you can see. Whoops. So, we've got one, two, three, four, and five. ATP synthes is considered five. Uh, they've got more complex names like suenate, dehydrogenase, and all that stuff. But again, not useful information. So, let's just focus on the numbers. We can see that for most of those proteins, there's an increase in the amount of those proteins that are found in our cells into in our muscle cells uh from exercise. And biogenesis cannot just appear as more mitochondria but can also appear through the generation of more of these proteins. So it is possible. So this this evidence just indicates that there's more of these proteins. So the mitochondria have greater potential for the generation of energy. But that doesn't necessarily mean that you're getting more mitochondria themselves. For that you have to do separate experiments and try to relate the two. So, it's possible that you have the same number of mitochondria, but you have more of these proteins that are found embedded into the wall of the mitochondria, the inner wall of the mitochondria, the membrane of the mitochondria. So, in a few words, exercise likely improves mitochondrial function by improving energy generation, cell signaling, and mitochondrial biogenesis. So in conclusion, I realize that uh this is a lot of cell biology and we sort of related it to different disease states and whatnot, but I mean the the real point we're trying to get across here is uh what are some practical tips on what a person can do to improve their mitochondrial function? Well, one the most obvious is exercise. Really any type of exercise will have a tremendous effect on your mitochondria. not just uh maintaining your mitochondria but potentially boosting them uh rather significantly as we saw even by some of the ATP measurements uh in in the beginning part looking at uh cell energy. The next thing that we didn't really focus on but I would say focusing on large muscle groups and I think most uh trainers and coaches and whatnot probably already do this but it's something that's worth accentuating. So focusing on large muscle groups like your leg muscles for example or your back or you know these different large muscle groups and the third thing is to focus on the intensity of exercise. Now I should caution here that there is a lot more research that needs to be done trying to to really figure out which one is going to be more advantageous for certain aspects of mitochondrial health to others. But that review that I referenced uh two or three times, that one specifically focuses on trying to find out the difference in intensity and which one would probably provide the greatest benefit to mitochondrial boosting if that's cell energy or biogenesis or any of these other metrics that that we looked at. And it looks like it seems like the data is trending towards the idea that highintensity interval training. So, uh, at 80 to 95% of heart rate max or sprint intervals have also been used. Um, I should point out though that you don't have to do sprints. You don't have to go super high intensity. You can also do things like uh using uh some some sort of machine that allows you to hit that 80 to 95% without having to be moving having locomotion at uh really high intensities. So should help for for people that you know maybe are older or don't have uh or maybe suffering from arthritis or whatever it might be. So, with those three tips, especially number three, well, number one and number three, it's the best bang for your buck based off of the current research that we have uh right now. So, thank you. I'll take any questions. And also, I'm a huge metal head, so if anybody has any recommendations, I would be happy to have metal band recommendations. >> Yeah. >> Can you speak a little bit about the role of positivity for MT MTH? in mitochondrial functions and ways to kind of mitigate that within this context and maybe touch on whether ketogenic diets might be one avenue to help function in the presence of mutations. So I'm [sighs and gasps] so the the question is about MTHFRG mutation and the relationship to mitochondria and could ketogenic diets help in some of these outcomes on mitochondria and whatnot >> in that case specifically. So unfortunately I cannot because I have not looked at that literature. I haven't looked at the MTHFR. I' I'm aware of it. I just haven't taken the time to to actually read into it. Um, I can say from ketogenic diets as a whole, uh, the types of fats, there's some evidence that the types of fats make some difference, but, um, again, we're really at the infancy of trying to understand how nutrition really affects mitochondria. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So when we're looking at exercise, is it just about the musculature or do we see improvements in other tissues for example? The answer is so we focus a lot on muscle groups because they're easy to probe. Um most people are not amendable to like probes in their head um or their liver or their pancreas or anything like that. But when we collate all the evidence from like animal studies and we look at some associative studies and we look at what we can do in humans uh the human literatures in muscle primarily uh so yes muscle for sure as we just went over but definitely other tissues as well. So there's definitely benefits to the brain, there's uh benefits to the liver, there's benefits all across the body, the bone, the tendons, and uh we know some of that actually this was very briefly mentioned in the panel with uh the effect that lactate has. So lactate uh I believe was mentioned that it might be one of the new frontiers when it comes to research uh in relation to exercise health, but also or exercise's impact on health, but also mitochondria. And uh that's because lactate can travel. So our muscles can produce lactate and it can be sent out of our musculature and it can affect all different types of different systems including uh our brain. >> Yeah. >> Um first of all the tool reference. Love that one. Maynard is my spirit animal. >> Oh me too. >> Um and I have actually more of a of a comment than a question. Okay. >> And um in regards to you know you had a bunch of pictures of legs up there which is great. And I love the one um showing that inactive 70-year-olds, you know, had a huge decrease in mitochondria. And uh I work as an ER nurse and one of the things that I see over and over and over again are older patients who tell me, "My legs, they're so weak. I can barely stand." people in their just not even that old really 60s7s and they a lot of them are literally afraid to get off the gurnie because their legs feel so weak and shaky and um the importance of of exercise and of building that muscle and building the strength can't be emphasized enough. And I think a lot of older people especially get a little bit daunted by it. They think, "Oh my god, I can't do sprints. I can't I can't go to the gym. You literally all you need to do especially if you're at a certain you know you know lower fitness level standing up and sitting down in a chair 20 times that if you did that every single day it would go a long ways towards your prevention of injury and your prevention of falls because I see these people over and over again and they again they tell me how weak their legs are. It's because they're not using them. They're not walking up hills every day. They're not walking three miles every day. One of the thing biggest things that we see with people who have great longevity is that they're actually walking for three miles a day. And you'll see these hundred-year-old ladies, oh yeah, you know, I smoke a cigarette every day, but I walk three miles also. So using your legs, you don't I mean sprints, that's great. Do the high-intensity exercise if you have the capability of doing that. But don't let that be such a hurdle for you doing something. And just doing something is so so vital. Just wanted to make that comment. >> That's a great point. Great point. Unfortunately, I think I'm out of time. Uh but if you guys have any further questions, I'll be around. So, just please come up to me and I'd be happy to answer whatever questions you might have. Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: oqeOwnoAkG4 (https://youtu.be/oqeOwnoAkG4) ===

Our next speaker is a US Airforce veteran, internationally acclaimed author, and certified nutrition specialist renowned for her keto without the crazy approach, and groundbreaking work in low-carb keto diets, weight loss, and chronic disease management. Please welcome Amy Berger. >> [applause] >> Thank you for that lovely warm welcome. Let's talk about biohacking, shall we? >> [laughter] >> Uh If this works, where do I have to point? I point nowhere. Clicker is not working right now. Uh-oh. I'm losing time. Clicker does not appear to be working. It does look like it's on, right? Sure does. Uh-oh. Stand by. Oh, there we go. You get it? I think so. Okay. All right. Well, I'm going to have to talk faster now then. Okay. We're going to have spare batteries. Okay, thank you. All right, let's blow through this one real quick. Conflicts of interest, I do receive royalties from books about low-carb and keto diets, but if you think that's paying the rent, think again. I don't think you make that much money off of books unless your last name is Kardashian or something like that. I'll let you read this on your own. This is in here just to remind us all not to take ourselves too seriously. This kind of health stuff we we've had talks about cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease. It can get pretty heavy. If we can't laugh at ourselves, what are we even doing? What is the point if we can't have fun? Who recognizes this graph? I know there's at least one person here who recognizes this graph, but he's standing way over there. Um this, in case you don't know, the yellow bars are the 3-day average of total fat that Dave Feldman ate, and the red is his LDL cholesterol. And as you can see, the more fat Dave Feldman ate over a 3-day period, the lower his LDL cholesterol was, and vice versa. And this was what? 9 years ago, November 2015, almost a decade ago. And then, Dave did that. That is the famous inversion pattern. And you can't unsee it. And I dare say that none of us would be here, Keto Sci would not be happening, the Citizen Science Foundation would not exist if Dave Feldman was not as meticulous as he was in tracking and recording his data. And I do want to say that Dave Feldman will spend a whole month eating nothing but hot dogs and white bread so we don't have to. I love it. It's fantastic. And hold your applause because I have also said that if Dave ever wins an award, if he ever wins any accolades, they are going to have to give an award to Sharon Del Pilar because how about a hand for Sharon? You have to have a lot of intestinal fortitude when your husband does the kinds of experiments that Dave does on the regular. And anyway, I have to say, right here, in no uncertain terms, that I respect and admire the meticulous that the meticulousness that goes into this kind of data tracking, recording, measuring your glucose, measuring your ketones, heart rate variability, all of these things, because we need some of this data, right? Like I said, none of us would be here. And I'm going to be talking about the downsides of meticulously tracking and measuring and doing all this. So, because I'm going to be talking so much about the downsides, I want to go on the record as saying that it is all about context. I've had clients whom I told to start tracking their food, weighing and measuring their food, maybe get a CGM, maybe start measuring your ketones, maybe experiment with the carnivore diet. I have recommended all of those things depending on the context. I think that all of this measuring, tracking, biohacking can be helpful under the right circumstance. My concern is when it tips over into the point where it is detracting from your mental and emotional health. And I think that you clinicians in the audience, you health coaches know what I'm talking about because you see it in your practices every day. The people for whom this has started to become a net negative. So, tools are tools. They're neither good nor bad. It depends on how you use them. A hammer can be used to build houses, or you can bash someone's skull in with it. A screwdriver can be used to install a beautiful chandelier, or you can gouge somebody's eyes out with it. So, how will we use these tools? That's really what we're talking about here. And I will give you the example of the scale. I have no preference whatsoever as to whether a client of mine weighs themselves every day, once a week, once a month, or never. It depends on how they are using that number. Is that number just a data point? Is it giving them feedback, "Hey, how am I doing? Is the general trend going up? Is the general trend going down?" Or is it their judge and jury? Is it the arbiter of their self-worth? Does the number on an inanimate mechanical device on the bathroom floor determine whether they are a lovable, worthy human being? Does it determine whether they're going to have a really good day or if they are a total failure at life? That is what we're talking about. How are you using these tools? So, again, because I'm going to be talking about the downsides of all this, let's really look at some of the plus sides and all of these things that can be useful for us. And to get back to the scale, and whether it's a CGM, a ketone monitor, all of these things can be useful. But I've made jokes, except it's not really a joke, that you should have to sit through a 5-hour biochemistry lecture before you are allowed to use a CGM or a ketone meter, because I see so many people freaking themselves out over perfectly normal human physiology, right? I had a client who would do fasted high-intensity workouts, and he was so worried because his blood sugar was spiking and skyrocketing. And I said, "Congratulations, your body's doing exactly what it's supposed to do." So, do we have the the knowledge that we need to use these tools? But of course, data is we can assess where we're starting from. How do we know what to change, if anything, if [music] we don't know where we are now? Maybe we don't need to fix anything. We can be empowered with knowledge. If we measure and track things over time, we can see how it's going. Is Is it getting better? Is it getting worse? Data can validate the efficacy of what we're doing. Is this actually working, or is this a total waste of my time and money? If something's working, it motivates you to keep going. Nothing more exciting, nothing more motivating than good results. Hey, I am losing weight. My blood sugar is coming down. Maybe I should stick with this crazy keto thing. Um and it can guide are going well, but they could go even better if I fine-tune something. So, this is all really, really good want. Right? Guilty guilty as charged. Some of you might be doing this with your relationships, or your finances, or your health. Or, you know, maybe you've been working from home for a couple of years, and you've been living in those stretchy pants with the elastic waistband, and then you have to go to a social function or something, and it's time to put on the real pants with the button and zipper, and oops, they're they're a bit snug. Hmm. Not that I know anything about that. But so, we don't want to keep our head in the sand, right? And the thing is, so many of us came into the keto, low-carb world because we had our heads in the sand, and we we finally worked up the courage to pull them out and see what was going on, we discovered, "Oh my goodness, we were prediabetic or diabetic, or our triglycerides were quadruple the healthy level." So, we don't Data can help us pull our heads out of the sand. Measuring, tracking, all of this stuff can be useful. Because it can help to empower us. And this is an excerpt from one of Nick Norwitz's essays on subject. Nick, I don't know if you're in the audience or not, but oddly enough, this was an article about how stress can accelerate aging. And Nick said, "Awareness is the first step in adaptation." Even, or especially when the data are scary, I find this offers the motivation to seek change. And he was writing about having discovered that he was homozygous for the APOE4 gene, the strongest known genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's. Having the knowledge is a gift. It's the motivation to take every preventive action. Yeah, the data can empower us. Knowing where we are, knowing the facts and figures, knowing our numbers can absolutely be empowering. And it can help us empower others. This is a comment that was left on Nick's Substack about this. Finding out you are APOE4/4 is a huge blow at first. However, if I had not known this, I would almost certainly not have taken the targeted actions required to prevent or delay the disease. I [snorts] would say potentially prevent or delay the disease, but okay. And at the end And so this is someone who is using the data to empower himself. He is using it to take the actions he can and he's not living in fear. This data has given him the knowledge he needs to take specific actions. And he's empowering others. Finally, the knowledge has let me reach out to other APOE4s and we are going through this adventure together. We are sharing our knowledge. Yeah. Social media Nick Nick gave an ex- excellent talk during lunch. It can be such a blessing. It can be so wonderful and it can also be a horrific bloodbath, if you know what I mean. But the bright side is, you know, how many people how many of us in this room learned about keto or low carb or carnivore from social media? From a blog post. I see nodding heads. From a Facebook post. From a YouTube video. Or even socially from a co-worker, from someone at your church. You didn't hear it from your doctor, which present company excluded. All you doctors are telling your patients about this left and right, but most of you probably didn't hear it from your doctor. So this this information can really help empower us. And I'm going to read a little bit of this. Um this is the opposite of empowerment because data can be used to empower like like it did for Nick and and that fan who whose comment I quoted from. Or it can be used to absolutely terrify you and box you in and make your life smaller. And this is a comment that was left on one of my videos. I'm going to show you two comments and then I'm going to show you the thumbnail image that went along with this video. This person says, "I'm so thankful for this video. I feel like you're directing it right at me. In 2014, I didn't even know what YouTube was. I had found low carb with Dr. Andreas, that's diet doctor. Started following the diet. It worked. I lost 60 lb and went from a size 16 to a six in less than a year. Many years later, I was on and off. Life happened. Life stressors, blah blah blah. I found YouTube and what went from trying to follow keto influencers then led me down rabbit trails of all these different forms of keto and then carnivore and like you said, oxalates and lectins into high fat is bad and you must eat grass-fed meat and then finding out how bad seed seed oils are and I've just been in a spin of confusion. I find myself in a world of confusion because there are so many different options out here now and I wish I never got onto YouTube. Thank you so much for bringing this to light because I'm glad to know I'm not the only one who feels like this. Again, that is the opposite of empowerment. That is not someone who feels empowered by all this information. That is someone who feels scared and paralyzed and demoralized. And this is another comment left on that same video. Yes, four exclamation points. The fearmongering is real. I started following keto influencer name redacted a few years ago and after listening to her, I became terrified of protein, histamines, dairy, coffee, etc. etc. I became so neurotic and actually gained a ton of weight on her protocol because there was really nothing left to eat than fat. I do just fine on a relaxed keto. The fearmongering makes me sick to my stomach. Here is the thumbnail that went with that video that those comments were in relation to. Thank you to the few of you who are here giggling out there. >> [laughter] >> Um I I don't know if this word exists or not, but if it doesn't, I am officially hereby coining it, so you heard it first here. Are you ketorexic? Are we inducing ketorexia in a certain portion of our followers, our fans, the people who like what we do? You get to a point where everything is poisonous, everything is toxic and there's nothing left [music] to eat. Nothing except the only safe thing might be grass-finished beef except as Dr. Berry right there would tell us, if that grass-finished beef was not hand massaged by pandas while prancing through the pot of gold at the end of a rainbow, it's not good enough. So you can't even have that. And the thing is we have made people so afraid of food and keto is supposed to enhance your life. It's supposed to make your life better. It's supposed to make you more able to do the things you do and I'm worrying that we are reaching a point where it is going in the opposite direction. People's lives are becoming smaller. They can't go to the restaurant because they might have used canola oil. You can't have dinner at your friend's house because they might have cooked something in soybean oil or the chicken might be from the regular supermarket and what about the omega-6 in the pork and oh my god. That's that's really empowering, isn't it? So >> [laughter] >> I came up with a motto keto without the crazy in response to what I was seeing. But this motto was born of this terror, this abject terror of food and the overwhelm and the confusion. This I seek to be a voice of sanity and simplicity and a reason in all of this keto stuff. Because I've been eating this way for long enough that when I was new, it was easy to start. There was the Atkins book, there was Protein Power and that was it. Way back there was Schwarzbein Principle, those of you like veterans know about that book. It was so much easier. There was so much less overwhelm and one of my big goals at this point is to help people return to that time. I want to make keto as easy and simple now as it was then. Because if I were new to this right now, I can't even imagine trying to make sense of any of it. Where would I even start? What would I do? Who would I listen to? I have no idea. And this is kind of going along those lines. This is a comment that was left on another video I did recently about measuring your ketones and what what is the best ketone level? What should your ketone level be? It's very difficult for me to have ketones register, even though I'm strict carnivore. I could argue that it's because they're strict carnivore that they don't have high ketones, but I thank you Amber for validating that. I won't go there. Uh I work out 2 hours a day, 6 days a week, so I think I use the ketones I produce. My 80 lb weight loss is stable and I feel great. Trying to let go of stressing over a low ketone level. Yeah. Yeah, please do try to let go because you've lost 80 lb, you feel great. I could argue as to whether or not 2 hours of working out 6 days a week is needed or optimal, but why is this person even measuring ketones? Why aren't they just enjoying life? Why are What what is measuring at this point telling them? And so with apologies to Walt Kelly, who is the name of the cartoonist that did a very famous cartoon on Earth Day, we have seen the enemy and it is us. I think that we are becoming so hyperbolic and so sensationalist that we are feeding this beast. And unfortunately, you kind of have to. Nick again gave a great talk about this at lunch where in order to even get any traction, you have to have a clickbait thumbnail and title. You have to be hyperbolic because nobody wants something simple. But we are feeding into this and I see this all the time with clients. I 99% of my work is over Zoom now with people. And when they talk about who they listen to and what they think and what they're afraid of and it's, you know, have you ever seen a cartoon where it's like there's steam coming out of the cartoon character's ears? Anyone here ever feel like that when you watch keto social media? You you watch the videos, you listen to the podcasts, you read the blogs. And so if you feel like this, A, you're not alone and B, I I have some what I hope are helpful suggestions for you, but I wish that I could say it's a character a character a or a cartoon. This is real life. These are real people that I see all the time who don't know what to do anymore. It's so overwhelming. >> [snorts] >> So this was a paper that came out a couple of years ago about keto for mental illness and we have one of the authors with us. Um the esteemed Dr. Westman is here. He is a co-author on this paper. And a quote from this paper is, "We believe it is likely that the ketogenic diet contributed contributed considerably to these unprecedented mental health improvements." Unprecedented mental health improvements. Yeah. That's what keto is supposed to do. Ideally, keto improves your mental and emotional health. It doesn't make it worse. So if you have reached a point or you think you might have reached a point where you have reached that tipping place where it is starting to make you more anxious and more worried and more fearful. What can we do about it? I like to encourage my clients to take what I call an information vacation. It's okay to skip some podcasts, skip some videos. You don't have to watch everything. No one is forcing you. Unless unless somebody has you tied up and you know, has your eyes propped open, you don't have to watch everything, listen to everything, read everything. And when I say to take a break, just take step back. Just take a break from all the keto stuff, the carnivore stuff. I don't mean to take a break from eating that way. If you know that eating that way helps you feel your best, please by all means keep eating that way. I'm talking about taking a break from the ceaseless, endless quest for optimization. And you're constantly wondering, what more should I be doing? What more could I be doing? And you will never ever feel like it's enough. How about doing a social media purge? You know, we we do this when you first adopt a keto or carnivore diet. You If if you don't live with anyone else who's in your house who's going to still eat carbs, you're going to do the pantry purge, right? You're going to look and kind of assess all of these foods in your house that are not serving you. They're not really doing well for you. You're going to get rid of them. You're going to pitch them. Do the same with your social media. If there are people, if there are specific video makers, bloggers, writers, podcasters whose presence in your life is a net negative, if all you get from them is fear and confusion and overwhelm, is that someone you want to invite into your brain, [music] into your psyche on a daily or weekly basis? I think it's well worth doing an assessment. Is is this person's content a net positive or a net negative for me? If it's a net If you think it's a net negative, disengage. You know, just don't You don't have to unfollow or unsubscribe. You could just simply not look at it for a couple of weeks, not listen for a couple of weeks. And if you really miss it, if you go back and you're thinking, you know, I I really actually do miss that. Maybe maybe it was helping me. You can always go back to it. You can hit that play button anytime you want, but I do think it's worth taking a break. You know, when we >> [laughter] >> There's an old joke in medicine, right? We're like, oh, the patient says, you know, "Doctor, it hurts when I do this." Well, stop doing that. Yeah. So, if every time you watch somebody or listen to somebody or read somebody and you are coming away with more fear, more confusion, more overwhelm, more feeling like whatever you're doing is not good enough, maybe you do the purge. Maybe that person isn't right for you. So, I came across this recently and I just think it's such a beautiful sentiment. Somewhere in the world there's a tree that sprouted the same day you were born and has been growing along with you. And what if you went outside and you watched a sunset and you did it without listening to a podcast? And what if you went out to dinner with some friends and you enjoyed the heck out of it and it was delicious and you didn't care what your CGM was doing? And you didn't care what your ketone level was. Dave is going to yell at me because he's an engineer and the math here does not add up. >> [laughter] >> When is 40% 100%? When is B- work actually A+ work? Well, we tend to think, particularly in the keto world, carnivore world, health optimization world, biohacking world, that you always have to be hustling and grinding and pushing, right? It's You always got to do more. You're always got to go harder or faster. And I don't think that that is a blueprint for optimizing anything. I think that's a recipe for burnout, for physical burnout, psychological and emotional burnout. And so, I don't know if Is the Sodfather in attendance? Peter, are you here? Okay, so so Peter Ballerstedt, um you know, forage agronomist into the natural cycles. Nature has cycles. Animals have a mating season and then they don't mate. Trees bloom and then they go dormant. Grass sprouts and then it stops sprouting. Almost everything in nature has a cycle. And yet we as humans think we should be pushing and pushing and pushing every day and that every single day should look like these red pink circles at the top. And some days it's going to look like the bottom. On a on a given day, if you only have 40% of your normal to give, but you give that 40%, that's 100%. That's 100% of what you had to give that day. And I think again this constant quest to optimize has us on this ceaseless hamster wheel of it just never being good enough. It is really. If your big win now and then, your big win for the day is that you got through the day, I think that's a decent enough win sometimes. If your head hits the pillow and you did not get in that set of squats and you did not take that cold plunge and you didn't spend the time in the infrared sauna, it's okay. It's okay. All hope is not lost. And um close out with just a couple more slides. This slide could have been the entire talk all by itself, really. Your wellness routine, your workouts, your diet, they're meant to enhance your life, not consume it. If they add stress, become your entire identity, or hold you back from actually living, you've completely missed the point. >> [music] >> And again, with with all this biohacking, the tools, the metrics, that I just really want to emphasize. I have nothing against it on principle. It can absolutely be helpful. We wouldn't be here if if Dave Feldman and so many other people here didn't track this. And and like I said, to empower yourself, knowing all of that information can absolutely guide you to make changes that are really going to have a dramatic impact on your life. But if you reach a point where all of that stuff is starting to act against, you know, keto, like that mental health thing. It's supposed to make your life better. It's supposed to give you the physical and psychological capacity to enjoy more, to participate more in the world. And if you are at the point where it's doing the opposite and it's retracting your world and it's boxing you in and it's making you scared and it's limiting you, then just reassess the place of all that stuff. And again, I'm not saying to reassess the place of eating a ketogenic diet or a low-carb or carnivore diet, but reassess the proper place of the technology that you are bringing into it. And you could even take a break and come back to it every now and then. You know, most of us are creatures of habit, right? We tend to eat the same things over and over, you know, unless you are Dave or Nick Norwitz or Dom D'Agostino and you're constantly doing these experiments. Oh, what happens if I eat nothing but I don't know what for a month, you know. What happens if I eat 720 eggs? What happens if I eat the Oreos? So, but most of us are creatures of habit. We eat the same things over and over. We have the same type of workout, the same type of routine. Do you need to wear the CGM every day, all year long? Do you need to measure the ketones every day, two, three times a day? Maybe you stop Maybe you do it twice a year, just to check in on yourself. Am I still good? Good, great. I don't need to check again for 6 months. You know, maybe you just bring it in now and then. But I'm almost out of time. I'm going to turn things over. I'm going to give the final word to someone who is far smarter than I am. If you don't know who this is, I can't help you. Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: dRM-0a_KFY8 (https://youtu.be/dRM-0a_KFY8) ===

This is a good place to segue into the reproducibility crisis. Could you give us a quick overview on that? >> Well, so really that's John I always say his last name wrong. Ionadis um who's a professor at Stanford and he also works for a really cool place in in Berlin. But he um came up with this paper that was called most research findings are false. And it's >> it's like the most cited >> it's the most cited you know medical journal article ever. Um and and his conclusion was basically that you know these things haven't been replicated and they can't be I mean it's more involved than that but it it was looking at a it was a meta analysis looking at a large amount of medical research and was really you know data driven to sort of come to the conclusion that more than half of our research is  Sure John would put it like that. Well, and in particular, I think that um one of the things that brought this one of the more fascinating efforts I think ever was something in the neighborhood of 50some existing studies were reproduced or was attempted to be reproduced by a group of >> are you talking about Begley and Ellis maybe? >> Yeah, I think that's what it is. >> Yes. So that wasn't just in cancer and hematology. So um the replication crisis is really looking at all fields of medicine but Begley and Ellis I think it was it was 53 or 56 studies that um and it was working with Amgen which is you know a drug company and I think the way that I've heard the story is that they realize that a lot of like you know you go to these like medical conferences and then you go hang out at the bar afterwards and people are basically pointing out whose research is good and whose research is bad and I think for a drug company like you want to use good research you know I mean I'm not going to get into the conspiracy theory rabbit hole that you're not actually trying to make a drug that works. Assume you are. So, you want to know like is this person honest? Are they doing good work, right? I mean, you're essentially hiring them or taking them on if you're going to develop it into something. And so, they took these hallmark studies in cancer and hematology and they tried to replicate them. And they went to insane lengths to do it, including recruiting the lead authors from the original studies to come in. They rebuilt the labs and they promised those authors anonymity. And so in order to get their buy in, they said, "Look, we're going to do everything we can. We haven't been able to replicate your results, but we're going to work with you. We're going to try to do this. And if we can't, we'll never tell anybody that your work couldn't be reproduced. So, it's not going to there's no risk for you to be involved in helping it." So, they got these authors together. They redid the lab. They redid the work. And I can't remember what it was, but it was like 11, >> right, >> out of the 53 they were able to replicate. None of the others. and none of the others have ever been retracted. So like that goes to the intellectual honesty piece for me that is just sort of a lot of this I think is you know money and incentives and whatever but the morality that's hard for me. If I worked with you know somebody said hey we're going to come and try and replicate the study you did and we weren't able to do it. I would feel an onus to let the original journal that published that work 10, 15, whatever years ago know, hey, look, something's off because I just worked with this group and we tried to replicate this and we couldn't. So, can we at least put like an author's note or like maybe you don't want to retract it, but you could put something on there that says like this work has been tried to be replicated and it wasn't able to. And none of them did. And so those studies still >> these are therapies. These are on >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Okay. So cancer and hematology hallmark studies 11 out of 53 could be replicated and none of the remaining 42 have been retracted. So they still stand right. So like you're a doctor and you're going and you're relying on that journal article that this you know intervention works. So you're still prescribing it or you're still you know using it in some capacity because it's never been retracted. >> I try my best to again be the devil's advocate. think of a good defense. Can't I can't think of one for this like this is and and it and again I'm I'm left with wondering how pervasive this is because that's only for the ones that we know of. >> Mhm. >> That's an insane rate. Like if you were to tell me, oh, it turned out that 90% of them could be replicated. I would say that sounds about right. I would imagine, you know, in our best case scenario, 10% or less failure rate on the replication and that might be something on their end. Fact that we're talking No, it's almost the flip side. It's almost 80%. >> That's that's insane. That is a a lot of possible poorly administered medical therapy that may even be more harmful than helpful, >> right? that I would hope I would hope that the scientists who feel responsible for that data and how that's you know going to be implemented in the field of medicine >> right >> is important to them >> you know it's interesting too because I think like when I was looking at the Dana Farber stuff one of the things that kept coming up for me is like the way that everybody talks about these things is like the science right so it's like oh how can we tolerate this in science but very few people actually take it to the extent of what What does it do to a patient? >> That's what I'm saying, >> you know? And so I think like that's that's the most important thing. People are spending money. They're having hope and it's all >> Well, first do no harm, >> right? >> Like it's you you want to be as sure as you can that the intervention that you're administering that you're recommending that they take on is a net benefit. M >> you know that the chance is worth >> or at least neutral. I mean like right like take a take a leap. But no, this stuff is it's crazy. I mean and I think like you know that's why when I do that talk I have all these crazy slides because I'm always like what I say is it's incredible. And if I didn't if I was just dropping in on something like this I'd be like this woman's crazy. And so those slides are backup. And I always say like I'll share them with anybody because I want you to go look up the sources that I have on my slides. like I'm just going to talk, but like this is your this is your research if you don't believe me, right? And it's like they're all really credible sources. I mean, a lot of times it's the peer-reviewed authors or other people, editors coming out and saying these things or I mean, the other big case that I like to talk about is with the Alzheimer's work, which was the amaloid beta 56 stuff, which was shocked, right? Yeah. And um for two years, Nature was like, "We're looking into this." And Science Magazine, I think, did one of the They should have won a Pulitzer for that. They did one of the best investigations into that misconduct. And then the lead author comes out and she says like, "Yeah, we did it. We totally made all that up, but we've subsequently done it right. So, you shouldn't retract the paper because I we still hold by this theory." And it's like, "No, no, you should be in prison. you don't get to like tell us now that like you've done it right. I mean I can't believe that and I was an adviser to Bobby Kennedy and so like I I know a lot of people at HHS and I'm always like do you guys want my like hit list? It's like my blacklist of like these people should never get federal funding again. They've admitted that they c did scientific misconduct and fraud. How can you get a government contract? It's like but they keep getting money. They keep getting funded. >> So So let me be sure I've got this straight. They got published in nature. Only through external investigative reporting was it that they got caught. >> Yep. >> Manipulating something which did they did they >> which something which by the way is like the foundation of all Alzheimer's research for the last 20 years. >> Yeah. The amaloid. >> It's like the plaque theory of Alzheimer's, right? >> And so like every drug, every test, everything that we've done has been based on that being accurate. And it was photoshopped. >> It was just straight photoshopped. >> And what's really interesting is like the site pub here where there's like all these images. I love these people because they're volunteers and they're going in and they just like pound through all these, you know, different studies that have images in them and they find like well this image is actually the same image that was used in a study from another university somewhere else and they just lifted it and put it in their study or this image has been manipulated. I mean it's what they all day like you can go on Puber and you can find them flagging papers all day long and you know they're using AI but in some cases you can see it right but what's kind of cool about AI is that none of the people who did work 20 years ago thought there was going to be some tech tool that was going to be able to come in and see this stuff right like Photoshop was really sophisticated they didn't think they were ever going to get busted now I just think like from you know as a former journalist like I covered murder and I really like getting into complex problems and and complex people, right? And I think like damn, I wonder if they're relieved, you know, like for 20 years you've harbored that you falsified these images and like now you don't have to lie anymore. Like, you know, I mean, like there's something that happens with criminals in that realm where there is like almost like a sense of relief, >> right? But like with this Amalo story, >> what were the consequences? >> Nothing. She said she she's still like >> Yeah, it sounds it's That's what I mean. Like even within the scientific field, like people aren't like ostracizing her. It's this is it's almost as though it's accepted. It's bizarre to I mean like when I worked at a newspaper, like if there was a rumor of somebody plagiarizing, it was like they had the plague, right? Like people would be like very wary of somebody who had like a story that didn't seem quite right. I don't understand how that doesn't have the same sort of gravitas or just like your own instinct of like I don't want to work with that person because I think their their work is off right and so I think like the self-correcting mechanism like isn't there >> well you you think of other fields like immediately what comes to mind if we're hanging out in STEM is the law >> getting disparred is gigantic. >> It's and it's very relevant to the likelihood that you'll ever practice law again >> in any capacity. >> Right. >> Right. Because it it's it's the sin by which you are getting ostracized. >> Yeah. >> And that's because you crossed the line. >> What bigger line is there to cross? Particularly if you're conceding it was by intent >> that this wasn't even sloppy lab work, but actually intentional. I'm just I'm blown away at the story that you're telling me right now, particularly given the heights at where it was and how much it's affected all again. I just I got to bring it back beyond research coming to answers. These are affecting patients. There are patients making decisions right with their doctors based on this research that has long reaching effects. But I think that's part of why honestly I think um you know in engineering if a if there were shortcuts made to design a plane and then it goes down and it kills 67 passengers, you feel it, right? And you go, "What the heck happened?" Find out it's a design flaw. Whose design flaw? Oh, it's this company. It turns out that they rushed it >> and and their data was actually cooked. You want all of them in jail at a minimum. That company's going out of business. It's getting fined into oblivion. The people are going to But in the case of bad data that led to over medication for a given outcome, it could have had a hundred times those deaths. >> Mhm. >> A thousand. You don't feel it quite the same because it's all dispersed. It's out there, right? >> Yeah. Yeah, I mean I think in some ways part of what you're saying for me goes to this idea of like public health versus like medicine, right? And so like we have all this public health is policy. It's like political, right? You're looking at population based things and then coming up with guidelines for people. >> Sure. But take the tumor example you gave earlier. >> Yeah. >> Right. So that medication is on the market. >> Yep. >> Okay. So how many people who are deciding whether or not they're going to take that medication have been appraised of exactly what you told me here that there's a greater all-c cause mortality. >> Yeah. So that's what I mean. So I think like basically the doctors are charged with treating the patient in front of them but instead they're deferring to these public health sort of like protocol standard of care kind of things that are based on regulation which is based on peer review. So you have this like cascade effect that obviously you we could make the argument is designed to protect the patient, but it's actually been really easily manipulated. And so the patient outcomes are are secondary. And I think I mean you could make the argument that like if you're killing people with a cancer drug like doesn't that matter to anyone, right? But you probably signed some sort of crazy disclaimer that says that you're taking some novel therapy and therefore like you don't have any right to sue. I mean the suing is really the recourse, right? But you got to get enough patients together. They've got to pass the Dolbert standard there. You know, there's all of these gatekeepers that make this stuff really hard to to course correct in a regulatory fashion. I mean, not to bring it all back to Netflix, but I kind of think like the trick here is don't get sick, right? And if you do, you have to educate yourself and you have to change your lifestyle because the last thing you want to do is end up in one of these situations where you are sick and you're on this conveyor belt of of health and research because I mean even like you know Bob my husband is like you know probably one of the world's best medical researchers and we have people who get sick in our family or friend group and Bob will do like a deep dive for them into you know whatever it is and it's always so depressing because it's disclosure to the watcher listener. Bob Kaplan is actually a co-author on our lipid energy model paper. >> That's right. >> That's because um he's been a long literally going all the way back to the beginning. Bob and I had actually been chatting long before you and I had a chance to meet >> and a broader connection is that's because um literally my introduction into lipidnology was the straight dopon cholesterol which was by uh Dr. Peter formerly um uh the boss of Bob Kaplan. Bob Kaplan was his research as chief of research. Y >> I believe is the title or whatever it was. >> And >> Bob's the reason I ended up on one of the early earlier podcasts with Patia. A quite famous one now. >> Yeah. So >> yeah, >> lively. >> Yes, it was. It was it was quite lively. But your husband, I mean, both of you are brilliant. But I I love the thoughtfulness of Bob and I'm I'm excited to have him on at some point. >> Yeah. No, I know he's looking forward to that, too. I was kind of hoping he could come out with me this time, but it didn't work out. >> But it's true. If I needed a deep dive on like if I wanted a diagnostician who's outside the field, but absolutely wrapped around it. Yeah. >> I'd go to your husband. >> Yeah. Because he's just he's such a critical thinker and he's not emotional, right? And so he like really just and he gets into the supplemental data and he looks at all the stuff. I mean he and I joke that he has this like long list of math errors that he's found in in medical journal articles and so like it changes the results significantly and so he'll even like obviously he's rerunning the math in order to find the error and so he'll contact the authors and sometimes they change it without posting a correction and sometimes they just don't even change it. I mean it's just like it's but my point really was that like I think when you do a deep dive into you know somebody tells you that they have something it's really hard because the there is the research field is just such a mess that it's really hard to be able to say oh like it's once in a blue moon that Bob's like oh my god there's this really effective treatment for this thing you have right it's much more like okay well you've got to consider like this comes with these risk factors which are really serious and this seems to have some preclinical interesting markers, but Bob's always like, "But I'm not really sure." You know, I mean, it's just it's there's never a straight line. And so I, you know, >> there's also other things that I've been critical on in this podcast before, which is, for example, I, you're probably familiar with run-in periods. Mhm. >> Run-in periods are one of I get really vocal on run-in periods because for those who don't know, quick introduction, a drug company, in fact, almost all modern drug trials, as far as I know, do this where they put the whole pool of who they've recruited onto the given drug before randomizing to the two groups. So, everyone's on the drug for somewhere between two to four to six weeks. And during that period of time, people are allowed to exit and they're in consultations and they may be not feeling so great and they decide to, you know, they don't want to be on the trial. They're not so sure about it. And then they randomize to the two groups, one that's going to be on that drug and one that's going to be on a placebo. Now, why is that so problematic? Well, obviously it's because whatever side effects there are to the drugs may have been experienced by the wouldbe participant before they end up in the randomizing between the two groups. And don't take my word or your word for it. There are lots of scientists who have said this is bias by design. It's why a lot of times the new quoteunquote miracle drug that comes out has such low side effects and then in the field in practice the side effects have a higher proportion including some that may not have ever been observed before. Why that's allowed? Well, you know the other part of that that I'm sure you know but that drives me crazy but it feels like the sister problem to that is the placeos that the placeos are not nothing. >> True. True. So like if they know that there's a likelihood that the intervention is going to cause headaches, there are placeos that have things added to them that cause headaches because it zeros out the headaches as a side effect for the drug. Statistically insignificant, they both populations had headaches, right? Malcolm um Kendrick does a lot of really great writing on the placebo problem. We all assume placeos are nothing, right? They're not nothing. And even now that I know as much as I know about sugar, people sometimes will be like, "It's a sugar pill." And I'm like, "Well, that's not good." Right? [laughter] So, I just think like at at its most base level, you want to be testing nothing versus the intervention. And you don't want to be getting rid of everybody who has an adverse effect to the drug before you start the trial. That's insane, right? That's what you're supposed to be measuring. But we're talking about something that ultimately results in hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars. Like the data swings a lot. >> Yeah. >> On these outcomes and that's why we should be caring that much >> about the setup. I want to go uh I want to go again back to the process for a second.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: tAMf6WQGX8w (https://youtu.be/tAMf6WQGX8w) ===

you know, let's do this because we've been sort of bouncing around sabotin. We should kind of give a little intro on that. This will this will be a podcast where we cover all the theories of atheroscerosis. Uh, as I mentioned the outside in, there's already lots of talks on this. I'm going to do my best to keep it from getting too technical. >> Yeah. >> But going back to my visualization, I'm looking at the camera again. You know, we've got the lumen again. We've got the endothelial cells. And then there's so many different ways to break down what the tissue is below here. We're kind of loosely just saying subtimal space, right? There's there's actually multiple types of layers and a lot of things to discuss there. But importantly, subtimal space is where you could say the atheroscerosis appears. And then this is an observation that Sabatan introduced that was new to me at the time that I was reading it from him, which is that what's usually described is that this is one layer of endothelial cells, exactly one cell layer thick. They're they're uh long and they look almost like shingles if you're doing a cross-section. And what he said is no actually they may start that way when you're really young but they ultimately lay they ultimately thicken to extra additional endothelial cells and this is referred to or diffuse intimal thickening. Okay. Now down below in the subimal space there are these teensy tiny vessels. I mean much much smaller than the lumen that's above and like I said smaller uh uh molecules and macroolelecules are going in through there and can help supply uh nutrients to the endothelial cells and to be sure I don't know you know what fits what doesn't fit but most of those kinds of things like you were talking about albimmen for example I think albimin fits there as well and I believe that um uh certain sizes I don't know how how up up the sizes go of apo containing lipoproteins can fit there and the staining that he was showing he was showing these cross-sections with staining he was pointing out how there are what appears to be a collection of uh apo containing lipoproteins I think it was specifying LDL we don't know for sure but that they seem to be accumulating down low and then slowly moving up until you see the atheroma appear up here. >> So in other words suggesting that indeed the origin of atheroscerosis is near the vasova and that some kind of disruption or infarct or something like that where it creates a problem here is where we end up with those problems that appear up here. >> Right? >> Correct me. This is like me kind of going back from memory. I want to say like five, six years, >> but that's the gist, would you say? >> Yeah. And and I would just point out that >> what he's saying is that it starts with a response of the endothelia. Something causes a proliferative response that causes the vasosorum to make these changes and grow new things and causes whatever is happening in the subtimal space. >> Right. >> Right. So that could be these changes in blood flow like Richard Thma and Mayor Texon are highlighting. It could also be injury, right? Yes. Now, here's where we're going to go. We're going to wrap in what has been more widely accepted since 2020. The same EAS group that gave us the famous 2017 uh low density lipoproteins cause aoscerosis, the threeline graph that we all are very familiar with. They had a second paper that was in the works from the beginning that was a mechanisms paper and that ended up shifting the whole field or I should say the major voices in the field of lipidology to um more broadly agree that actually transytosis is the major contributor to apo lipoproteins in the subimal space and that was a huge shift because literally all this time it's been assumed it's a passive process by how they get in there, that they are smashing into the endothelial walls or that they're getting through the junction gaps. And this isn't to say that they aren't getting through the junction gaps, which we can get into a little bit later, but I've long believed long before that 2020 paper was published, and I have tweets. I I've got receipts of where I was saying transytosis is how I think I literally said we we can't crack open the book of aththeroscerosis till we're looking at transytosis. That's relevant when talking about the Sabbatan work because do I think those LDL particles there in the subtimal space there's a strong case to be made that they were literally put there by the endothelial cells above. Yes. Not only yes, but now that same 2020 paper I'm talking about and lots of research since shows that inflamed endothelial cells express more receptors such as SRB1 which transytose LDL particles down which incidentally to me should have been one of those moments where and I don't want I don't want to sound too strong here but I'm just going to say it the field of lipidology should have like slowed down for a sec and said wait a Second, this is a planned process. This is literally part of the playbook of inflammation at an endthelial cell level. Why don't we start looking a bit closer as to what that is? It definitely threw a lot I think objectively it throws more support towards the response to injury hypothesis at a minimum and makes it even more incumbent that you be able to disen disentangle whether or not there is an injury or some inflammation of the endothelial cell as relevant toward the development of atherosclerosis where it appears because right now there's still a push that it's no yeah there is a a response to injury We agree it's not um it's not uh mutually exclusive of the response to retention hypothesis which I would agree with. They don't they don't have to be. But in order to stand on the response to retention hypothesis, you ideally want to get a population of people with skyhigh LDL but who are not chronically inflamed >> ideally as a good test ground, right? And so that that's that's why like it was a big deal to me that that came around. Well, so this comes back to the relevance of the vasovasaurum and Sabbat's work. Again, I I like all of the hypotheses. I like to chat about all of them. But once I saw that inflamed endothelial cells did this increased level of transcytosis, that then put the same requirement on sabotin. How do you disentangle? They injured endthelio cells and and I think he had a version of response to injury effectively effectively in that it's not diffuse. It's not all across the because that was always going to be a problem with the response to retention is you would expect that there would be a distribution that's a lot more predictable. >> Right. >> Right. Um but no, there there isn't. To be fair, and I want to be as fair as I can to those who are responsive to retention enthusiasts, I'm sure they would agree that um or I'm sure they would say, "Look, there also is mechanical stress, hemodynamics, those sorts of things are contributors." >> Mhm. >> But do we see do we see a wider Gaussian distribution of plaque as we would expect to see with the response to retention? Not to a level that that you know convinces me at this point. >> Yeah. And and I think that things can end up in the subtimal space in that way too. I would just take it even further than that. Like before that can happen, you have to have destruction of structured water. You have to have >> you have to get rid of it. Like cuz otherwise nothing can penetrate it. There's no transytosis happening until that damage happens and they send out signals more receptors to say hey we need help. that I'm pretty sure you're wrong on. It's th this is a I I love the structured water hypothesis, but I'm I'm very very confident, let's just say that there is receptor mediated uh capture of things from the lumen by endothelial cells and definitely one of those is what I just described transytosis of lipoproteins from the lumen into the suboptimal space >> in a normal healthy person. >> In a normal healthy person, I said that it >> define healthy. >> Yeah. Well, no, no. I said that uh uh damaged endthelial cells upregulate things like SRB1, >> but under normal conditions, SRB1 does still capture um apo lipoproteins >> from where? >> From the lumen. >> We know from the lumen for sure. >> Yes. Like in other words, let's say that I um let's say I took a biopsy of you know your cellular matter and I looked inside these cells the endthelial cells of a portion of tissue where I pulled the um and I looked at all of them and I then checked out the mRNA right so I could actually see the transcription etc. I'm pretty confident that I would find that SRB1 was in production and possibly even see existing receptors and possibly even see existing vesicles. However, you just took that tissue out of its natural environment. True, but I'm I'm so I I don't think you can say that cuz that's that's an injury. You just caused an injury. You just you just rocked that cell's world. Okay, fair enough. Let's say if I cultured cells, right? I I'll bet that's granted and I want to be, you know, clearer. >> Mhm. Um, I know that there are in vitro studies that I'd read with regard to SRB1 and it's it is still an emerging field and I'll I'll be upfront that in vitro could you know be more induced and is not as um reliable as invivo. >> But all that said, I would bet you and and for that matter there's another there's kind of a larger structural I'm not going to I'm going to get off on a tiny tangent. I think in the case of lean mass hyper respponders there's a greater greater degree of transcytosis by endothelial cells to meet structural demands. So for example how um adipocytes grow and contract right contract I shouldn't be used I should just say shrink but in particular they need to uh increase their surface area at a point where there's storage a lot of that's just even routine storage just tiny bits but where do they get that surface area like free cholesterol and um um phosphoippids I believe that there's a certain degree of it that's made use of by by existing apopil lipoproteins. Now, could they all be supplied by the vasoposaurum? Maybe. But then why would they make these receptors for transytosis and endoccytosis in this case, which is where they literally ingest it and then make use of them? >> Yeah. >> Uh, you'll see. >> I mean, we'll disagree. I mean I I think it all comes from the maze absorb because I think that because it doesn't make sense to me that that things would have to slow down enough to be transytose like it like the purpose of moving blood through an artery is to keep it moving and when it doesn't move very well we get issues right stagnant stagnant blood creates issues that comes back to the mass so in the case of a B lipoproteins they're relatively small they're easy to snag in a receptor like an LDL L receptor. Now, when you do get to something like a monocy, that's a whole different story. It's got a lot more mass. So, you have to use things like VCAM. That's um for for lack of a better way of putting it, that's the the cell walls version of speed bumps. It's like slowing it down and then grabbing it and then pulling it into the junction gap so that I can differentiate into macroofish. Those are definitely not coming through the vasova. Like I said, I don't know the the lumen size of the vasovasaurum, but monocytes are not flowing through there. That that much, I'm sure. >> Sure. And if structure water exists, none of that's happening. >> I think it's possible that you may find out after this podcast that I'm right, but that that doesn't disqualify the structured water. >> Sure. >> I mean, how do we know anything's for certain? We just keep asking questions. >> Yeah. I mean, that's all fun to ask.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 0vl2_z3djQ0 (https://youtu.be/0vl2_z3djQ0) ===

Our next speaker is a 60-year-old manufacturing engineer and fitness advocate who transformed his life through the keto through the keto lifestyle. Please welcome Mark Rhodess. [applause] >> Hello everybody. My name is Mark Rhodess as Dave said and I'm here today to talk about something that Dave implored us last night to watching the cholesterol cult. How are we really going to make this change? How are we really going to carry a message so to speak? So my disclosures I am a manufacturing engineer with certified powertrain who is a division of sums holdings. They are gerine to this talk. They have contributed to citizen science but they expect no compensation and nor do I receive a salary. With that, let's talk about is it possible to make real change in America in wellness and healthcare. And we're familiar, I think, looking at this audience with these graphs that I'm showing that this is roughly when I'd like to do this. This is roughly when we introduced the food pyramid, the ideas of what good nutrition was. And a couple years after that, we see this spike, which we call the hockey sticks. And we're familiar with this. And with being familiar with it, we made a change in our own life. We we found that the doctors we were working with didn't work for us. We started scouring the internet. We looked at friends. We started reading some books. And we made a very positive change in our life. And I know that all of you here care about that change because you're here. You said, "This change was so profound in my life that I want to be part of this. I want to share this." And for me it started and at the end of 2016 2017 I started carrying the message with uh at beginning the two keto dudes uh Richard Morris and Carl Franklin but I also began writing articles for my company newspaper. Uh this is really key to how we can change this. Uh in this particular slide you can see I was talking about a dexa scan and reversing osteoporosis. I've since reversed heart disease. Well, reverse the pre-diabetes. What's the message? What is it that we're trying to tell people? Well, that a low carbohydrate diet works and we don't have to be scared of the fat. We don't have to be scared of the protein. Um, I think the diet that we're following can follow fall under a big umbrella. It can be carnivore, it can be keto, it can be low carb. But the important thing is is that we all agree that this lifestyle has made a very definite impact on our health and our wellness. And this is what I'm trying to suggest is that we can change by crafting the message. So have a plan to take advantage of your opportunities when they show up. Um don't evangelize. All right. So one of the things I did in the beginning was you're wrong. And people go be like no you're wrong. And no one wants to hear that. I didn't want to hear that, you know. So, don't evangelize. Um, engage people. Ask them why do you disagree what what are you looking for in nutrition? Why do you eat what you eat? You know, don't don't say, "Well, you're eating the wrong thing." Um, and always have your proof available. In this presentation, you can see I have a DEXA scan over the nine years. Uh, moving my LP little A. Uh, I like this one because my cardiologist asked me to create a spreadsheet showing the cost of insurance blood tests versus own your labs versus out of pocket. So, he could get people who wanted to do blood testing but couldn't afford it to go through your labs to get the test done and have your academic citations ready. You don't have to be an engineer like me or Dave. You can be just a regular person. You can be part of the ley to make a difference. What difference? Well, let's look at this chart. The chart suggests using prao that if we look at the employer as the largest contributor to health care costs, that's where we need to aim our efforts. We've been aiming at the wrong people. Of course, we're going to miss on a couple family and friends. We're going to miss on some co colleagues and co-workers. But right there, the employer, 48.9% of health care costs come out of his or her pocket. Bingo. That's where we need to focus. So what I did is I kept writing articles. I kept saying, "Hey guys, look at this." And eventually I got on the wellness committee. From the wellness committee, I got up on the corporate wellness committee. Constantly keeping my message simple. and that message as we saw under the big umbrella. So once I got on the corporate wellness committee, I had a PowerPoint ready and I want to show you that PowerPoint and then have you uh u think about that and that is this presentation. That's a familiar slide. We've already seen this one. But how do we change the conversation on wellness? Well, we know it doesn't work. And this is exactly what I told the people in my employer. We can't talk about calories in, calories out. Whether it's the right model or the wrong model, people are not doing it. And let's stop feeding people what doesn't work. Um, people don't want to move more. Sorry, they just don't want to. I might. I mean, I look like it. I enjoy it, but most of the people aren't going to want to move more. So what can we do to give them alternatives to reduce the health care costs? And the other problem with doing calories in calories out is as you can see in the bottom here, it's the same old advice and people feel really bad about failure. They begin to feel that they are the failure and they begin to feel that they're at fault for being overweight, for being sick. And that's not the case. They've been given the wrong advice. So, we must have a plan to succeed and we must consider alternatives that have proven success. And what I'd like to do is have my company uh offer some of these alternatives. How can we measure success? Well, I asked the for the wellness committee, how do you measure success? They said, well, people like our our program. I'm like, I'm an alcoholic and I like to drink, but when I break out in the handcuffs, that's not a good thing, right? So I'm like what can we do to make quantifiable objectives? Let's uh talk about the reduction of health care costs. Let's talk about the reduction of absenteeism. And let's talk about the increase of boat activity. Finally, let's talk about the reduction of metabolic dysfunction. These are are markable quantifiable metrics that my HR department can look into. So a reliable metric is obesity. We've seen how obesity affects all the other chronic diseases. So when we make that our primary focus, we should be able to see a reduction in all these other things. How can we do that? How can we introduce this? Well, I said we could have in speakers. We could bring in experts. We could have games. We could have contests. The important thing is the conversation must move away must move away from exercise and calories in calories out. That nutrition should talk about whole foods that seed oils and sugars need to be reduced. all the things we know of and and just believe this needs to be talked about at a very repetitious rate that people need to hear this information over and over that this will be the cure. Um the idea is not to promote any specific carnivore or keto or low carb but just to give alternatives to people. One paradigm is banting or what we know as keto and that's the one I'd like to focus on and I suggest that we use one of these four um societies or companies or how you want to look at it that let's get the professionals in. Let's not use me and my experience. Let's get something that has some resonance, someone with affability, someone who can relate to our employees. So although movement and exercise are great and again I like movement and exercise that's not solving anything but nutrition affects every single cell every organ every metabolic function. So what can we really do to make change? If no one took away anything other than this I went let's see if won't do it. So right there I had a said real food doesn't have ingredients. That's the takeaway that we really need to promote with our employees. And let's think of our employees as customers. Let's stop saying, "Oh, we're doing this for your good." It's for a cost reduction. To be honest, people don't want to hear that, you know, the spiel that, oh, this, you know, do this. No, they want to hear honesty. And when they hear honesty, they might actually be listening. That was the end of my presentation. But I later, they said, "Yes, let's do this." I said, "This is where we focus. Obesity, which on average can cost anywhere between $2 and $3,000, and type 2 diabetes, which can cost anywhere between 12 and 16 to $19,000. And my company has 900 employees. You add their spouses, take away some, add some, some kids, that's roughly 1,800 people. And if we use the one in 10 metric for type 2 diabetes, we can guarantee $2.8 8 million if every single one of them followed this plan. That's not going to happen. But you should be able to see a reduction in cost. You should see a reduction in absenteeism. You should see a increase in productivity. These are effective ways to measure, not I liked it. I asked Dr. Eric Westman to help me. You can use anyone you want. I chose Dr. Westman and he was gracious enough to say yes to working with my company and we're still working out the details. This is going to happen at the end of March. He's going to give us a webinar. He's going to direct it in particular to uh the 900 people. It's going to be specific to them. I don't care if you use Dr. Tro. I if you want to call Doug Reynolds up, if you want to, you know, bring in your experts, this isn't a one-sizefits-all thing. They've implored us to find a way to carry the message. One way is to talk about the cholesterol code. Another way, I believe, is to hit the employers in such a way that they see real substantive change and they go to the health care companies from the bottom while Nina and Gary are working from the top. And I think we can squeeze the insurance companies and squeeze the advice given here. You can see simply that uh we're doing an internal promotion. Um with this we're talking about the things it can reduce but again the focus that we're using is obesity and type 2 diabetes. I could tell them how I reverse osteoporosis or my agit score but it's just too much. I got to tell them how it's helped my wife's mental illness. It's too much. These two focuses are enough to allow my employer to say, "Well, we can offer an alternative." They're not saying it's the right thing, but we're not saying it's the wrong thing either. Why don't you give it a shot? We'll give you the information. So, with that, I'd like you to think about how you're crafting your message. What have you done to I know you've tried to carry it to your friends and family. You've tried to talk about how it's affected your life, you know, how it's made you a better person in some aspects, but really, how are you going to carry this message? Thank you. [applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: -5dX_DFCqRM (https://youtu.be/-5dX_DFCqRM) ===

I want to emphasize that your opinion and mine has changed throughout our lives as data has come available to us. >> I'm curious given everything you know right now, which of course will also include the data that I've been getting through the study that I'm currently spearheading, but in this moment in time, you as a physician, what is your opinion of LDL cholesterol? Quick, easy answer, right? >> That's a good question. Quick, easy answer. >> Well, part of part of why I gave that big long preface was I think that you feel I think every clinician feels understandably defensive about weighing in on a controversial topic, even one that you've chatted about so much before this point. >> But I also appreciate when a question like this comes forward where it's like, where are you right now? Yeah. >> What do you feel right now? >> Uh, and take some time to unpack it. And that's what I wanted this podcast for, >> right? >> Was you and I usually when we're chatting like on your podcast or something, we have to kind of have you have a very concise question. I have to do my best to give you an answer that, you know, lands in a few minutes. This is part of why I like this long form, right? >> Is we can it kind of get settled in and really chat things out. >> Um, but I want to set the stage for you. >> Yeah. to say I've definitely had some evolution of thought. >> I'm sure you have as well. >> Sure. >> A lot of the emerging data has been super fascinating and um I myself have um even within the data of our own study have further things that I think add greater nuance. But I want to start with you. >> Yeah. >> So where you at right now? And I like how you phrased it right now because where I'm at right now certainly isn't where I was 15 years ago and might not be where I'm going to be 15 years from now. Right. So I I think we have to always hold the right to change our opinion and should be changing our opinion as you know new data and new experiences arise. So I mean it's even saying that is still a hard question to answer because LDL is involved in the process of atherosclerosis. All right. I think there's clear evidence for that. Now, I hate the term, you know, LDL is causitive because I don't believe it is truly causitive the way I define causitive, which means, you know, LDL is the number one most important factor that causes heart disease. I tr I do not believe that at all. But it is involved in the process of atherosclerosis. So we cannot ignore LDL and we should not elevate LDL as the first and most important thing that we evaluate and treat. I mean I don't care if someone has a diagnosis of hyper lipidmia. I care if someone has a do a diagnosis of coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, stroke, heart attack. That's what I care about. So for me that's what I want to prevent and treat. Now as LDL has a role in that. Okay, LDL is important but there are a thousand other okay maybe not thousand there are a number of other things that have roles in those diagnoses and probably more important roles in those diagnoses but I want to address all of them as much as it makes sense for the patient in front of me. What is their risk? Where are they on this spectrum of vascular disease? How aggressive do they want to be? What are their other risk factors? what are their other medical conditions and then you come together to say how should we progress and LDL is part of that as is blood pressure as is blood sugar as is an insulin level as is A1C as is HB as is um HCP you know as is your body composition um as is your mental state as is your medical history as is your family history and I can go on and on right but the problem is that we say LDL is high, here's your statin. And if you ask a doctor, is that the right way to practice? They'd say, "Oh, probably not. You should consider all these other things," and then you go sit as a, you know, a fly on the wall in their practice. And because of the constraints of practice, because of the the um reimbursement strategies and because of just life as a doctor in this medical world, it ends up being your LDL's high, here's your statin. And yeah, poof, that was a tirade. I'm going to take a break and take a quick drink of water after that one. >> No, no, it's um this is what I This is what I created a slide for because I do my absolute best. I don't know how successful I am at it, but I do my absolute best, particularly modernday 2025 Dave, to say my job that I gave myself is to go get this data. Doing my absolute best not to even suggest that I have uh something prescriptive for you. So, it's not even me just saying I'm an engineer and not a doctor and therefore don't take my opinion as medical advice. like I actually try to condition what I say to not seem even suggestive of what I think people should do. Now, what I will say is that there seems to be enough agreement within the team that I work with that I'm comfortable enough passing along what they say. Not because I'm endorsing what they say, but because if somebody wants something that they're going to keep bothering me for weeks and months and whatever, here here's a slide on what they would say and that seems to satisfy that need. So what Budaf uh Adrien Sodtomoda Nick Norwitz and I think you I think I also got your sign off on this slide because you seem to all be coming to the same conclusion which is step one did going on a ketogenic diet result in high LDL. Okay, move to step two. If in step two your metabolic health is good, there's no other risk factors and you've gotten a scan. The scan comes back showing low to no plaque. Then there doesn't appear to be any data, and I think this is evidence-based. There doesn't appear to be any data that your LDL will be predictive of a future event. Now added to that if steps one and two are not the case. Yeah. Now if you have poor metabolic health or and or you have you know moderate to high levels of plaque then in the case of I think everyone that I talked to you want to take steps and I don't push into what the take steps are but of course some of you are going to say lowd do statins some of you are going to sayamime's fine with me some of you are going to say maybe try other things other than the LDL cholesterol Um, but that still ultimately result in lower LDL. I don't know. But I think I think it's fair to say that uh of all of you LDL is still on your mind because it's still a patient that's considered risk. Would that be fair to say? >> Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I think it's it's clear with existing plaque um the impact of LDL is way more important than without existing. Like I think that's pretty clear. Um and and still not the most important thing though, even with existing plaque, still might not be the most important thing. But sorry, go ahead. No, and this and this is where um I might get myself in trouble because I don't want to sound like I've contradicted what I've just said. I want to be able to say this without getting in trouble because it's just again it's just epistemic examination which is we know that efforts to lower LDL are not uniform. There are drugs that lower LDL that don't have a benefit. There there are some drugs like SGLT2 inhibitors that actually modestly increase LDL but they have a cardiovascular disease benefit. It may well be that lean mass hyperresponders who have existing plaque taking steps to lower their LDL will see a benefit and we may even be the ones that help get to the research that that elucidates that possible. It's possible that it doesn't. Part of the challenge is that this is truly a new paradigm because we believe this higher level of LDL is as a result of fat adaptation and greater trafficking. I believe successfully and that's a new paradigm. So it is tricky because all of us including my team and including myself would agree that apo containing lipoproteins like LDL to get a bit technical are part of the process of atheroscerosis. So of course it's fair to question whether or not you should change levels in the blood. I just want to be able to say I still am in a place of uncertainty. I don't know. >> And I should be able to just say that without it being controversial. >> Yeah. >> Well, and I think you can say that if you're saying for this specific population, in this specific circumstance, do we have the evidence to conclusively point us one way or the other? And you can say the answer is no. Right? And then but then the question is well then what? So what do the doctors do? What do the patients do? Right? What's the next step? And that's the harder question >> and that's the difference with us. So I'm not a clinician. You are. You need to act on the information you have. >> There's a lot of variables that may go into that. I don't my goal is to still get enough data that I can start to draw conclusions. But interventional data we don't have yet. Correct. We just have observational sofa. Yeah. And this is where I mean I will sing your praises and your team's praises to the end of the earth because you're asking questions nobody wants to ask, right? Anybody would say the science is settled. We don't even need to be going there. And you're saying, I don't know, maybe it's not settled because we don't have this in this situation the definitive answer. Now, the argument would be, well, we don't have it in left-handed, red-headed kid born the second Thursday of April either, right? Like how how much do we need to dial down, but that's when we get into the physiology of things. The physiology is different. The physiology has changed. The reason for elevated LDL has changed. So, it's reasonable to ask, does that then impact people differently? And if it's in the setting of good metabolic health, which the majority of our population does not have. So therefore, by by inference, the studies that have been done are not on people with good metabolic health. So does that change things? So these are very relevant scientific questions that nobody's really been asking except for you and your team. And not just asking it, but taking the step to make the research happen, which is remarkable. And I think you've gotten a lot of slings and arrows along your path when you should be getting applause and pats on the back for asking scientific questions. So is there anything I missed? Is there anything else that's changed outside of let's say metabolic health and its relevance that you feel is different from say the U of uh not just 15 years ago but even the you of the last few years with regard to lipids and risk? >> Well, I think one of the things that's changed certainly since my time of training is where lipids are on the hierarchy of impact. Um, and by default they're sort of number one. And now I'd put them way down on the bottom of the list. Not off the list, but down towards the bottom of the list with, you know, blood pressure, metabolic health, insulin resistance, in chronic inflammation probably being higher on the list. Now, you could also make the argument doesn't matter where they are. If you really want to take care of the patient, you're going to address everything on that list, right? But I think it does matter because how aggressive do you go? Are there side effects? What are the patients preferences? Right? All those things play into it. So you do want to, you know, put the big rocks in first, so to speak. So I think what's changed is for me is where LDL is on that list. But like I said, it's still on that list. And I can't remember if I said this already or not, but LDL maybe not being or and ap right? So when I use LDL, I'm using those interchangeably, but LDL not being the greatest predictor of vascular disease and lowering LDL particles for somebody with vascular disease being beneficial can be true, right? They don't have to be one and the same. You can have those as two distinct models um and they can coexist. So I I think maybe that's kind of what has changed for me over the years um in regards to LDL.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 1iifsp2K040 (https://youtu.be/1iifsp2K040) ===

[Applause] Our next speaker goes back, is an associate professor and of medicine at Duke University, board certified in obesity and internal medicine, and a pioneering researcher and best-selling author whose work in ketogenic diets has transformed obesity medicine. Please welcome Dr. Eric Westman. [Applause] Thank you, and it's a pleasure to be here. Today, I'm debuting a new concept, and I want your feedback. I hear this in my practice at Duke. I've been at Duke now since 1990, but really getting into um obesity medicine since the year 2000, keto medicine more specifically. And I hear this comment quite frequently. But keto goes against everything I've been taught. Anybody go along with this? Yeah, just about everyone. My conflict I forgot to put on there is I created a small company to teach people who can't make it to my office, and that's called Adapt Your Life Academy, adaptourlifeacademy.com. So, it got me thinking because over the last, well, 25 years, how do I put all of what I've learned in one slide? Well, if you go out and get Ketogenic, The Science of Therapeutic Carbohydrate Restriction in Human Health, which came out in 2023, you're going to learn just about all the science that I know and more. And it's an amazing textbook. I really have to thank Professor Noakes and Nutrition Network for doing the heavy lifting on this textbook. But then you go to lectures on what did humans eat evolutionarily, and you've heard about hunter-gatherer and paleo and primal and when you get into the medical world, Banting wrote a book. It wasn't Banting and Best of insulin history of medicine, but Banting wrote a book, Letter on Corpulence, which was a low-carb diet in the 1860s. And then bant Osler and Allen published papers and were using a low-carb keto diet to treat diabetes 100 years ago. And doctors were using low-carb diets right up until about the time I was born, 1960. And probably your lived experience is that it's bad. But what happened in our lifetime, the sugars and starches, the low-fat diet, junk food was what we called it when I was a kid, now ultra-processed food. You might have heard of the Pritikin and Ornish approaches, which were legitimate ultra-low-fat diets. You may have heard of Dr. Atkins and Atkins diet and Protein Power and South Beach and Excuse me, all of those all of those morphed into in my clinical experience and research lifetime into something called LCHF. You'll see documentary films on this, people winning records record time uh the uh Sami Inkinen and his wife going in a rowboat and row from San Francisco to Hawaii and break the world record by 15 days. That's cereal killers, too. C E R I A L, not S E R I A L. And what went against my training was something called metabolic syndrome. It's called insulin resistance. In the talks you've heard so far, it's focusing on triglyceride and HDL, the abdominal circumference, the blood sugar, and the blood pressure elevation. So, it's not just the blood levels of things, but it takes away the old paradigm total and LDL that I was taught to triglyceride and HDL in the blood, and I talk about this and teach people in in in my classes and in my clinic. If you step back, something got messed up because I'm just teaching the hunter-gatherer diet. I'm just teaching paleo, primal, Banting. So, you have to step back and realize that what we grew up with was bizarre. Not normal. The way it's normal for us, people come in, "Well, it's normal. I've always had Fruit Loops and Captain Crunch and you know, it's normal to have Halloween candy like this and barter with your I stole money from my mother's wallet to buy candy. Did anyone else do that? Oh, okay, thank you. I felt so alone. But so why does it seem so wrong then to teach something that's so right? Which gets me to how are we taught? Families, Frosted Flakes boxes, Tony the Tiger, the Muppets. Back in the day, the Atkins Foundation paid PBS to change what the Cookie Monster said from you know, cookie to every now and again treat. Did you ever Did you know it was a blip? I don't think it sustained cuz they stopped paying them, right? My high school, what did I learn? I I not much in nutrition. And and the food guy, well, Dr. Oz taught everyone and you know, you have to have a poop every day and buy my probiotic. So, you you know, you don't have to, but and then now food guides and Mediterranean diets, the government guidelines and all this, which were really companies lobbying the government to promote the foods America makes. And that was dramatized in a comedy sketch by a brilliant comedian who comedians often just see reality and and basically said, "We don't promote palm oil because we don't we're not a we're not a tropical country. We don't have palm oil." Wow. And then now my patients come in watching 600 My 600-lb Life, Naked and Afraid. Has anyone watched Naked and Afraid, this reality show where people go out in the middle of nowhere by choice, and and like dramatized in this picture, they lose a pound a day, minimum. It's a pound or two per day. So, you can learn about it that and that's not a healthy way to do it. I'm not telling you to do the Naked and Afraid diet. But I And now in my practice, more and more people are going from Dr. Oz Network TV, I guess he's not on anymore, but they're going to YouTube. And so, how many of you are consuming YouTube information? And How many of you Do you still have cable TV? Yeah, I think 25% is the latest uh so And then the thing that just stuck in my I you are what you eat. No, you're not. Are you a banana? Oh, well, you might not eat bananas now. But so, in my clinic, I'll say, you know, but what do you eat? And I ask people to write out everything they eat. And then I say, "Has any other doctor ever asked you to write out everything you eat for a day?" And they go, "Well, you know, dieticians have." No, has a doctor ever asked you? They said, "Well, no." I said, "Yeah." So, I talk about food. And you're not what you eat. You don't look like You don't look green and you've had broccoli. Right? So, that's that's not right to say things like that. So, it occurred to me as I was kind of looking for things to talk about and and I do promote other people's YouTube information and oh uh sorry. Uh went through Oh gosh, Keto Connect is this cute couple who years ago I met at Keto Colorado somewhere. And they have keto a keto baby, and they've been teaching people keto now for a while. So, I looked at them. I wonder oh Here's a recipe for easy keto meatloaf. And so, you have these ingredients, ground beef and and you know, there's a substitution. You don't use um uh breadcrumbs, you use pork rinds. If you don't know what pork rinds are, come to the North Carolina. They're all over the place, chicharrones, meat skins, chicharron. And then you put it in the oven and you bake it. So, baking something gives the enzymatic change to it's it's almost miraculous, isn't it? To see these ingredients change into things. So, I thought, "Well, why don't we separate out in our teaching for people of what to eat? What are the ingredients for a human? And why do we need fuel? Why do we need the heat? So, every recipe people make that it's common knowledge that you would bake something to make that you might not know that it's the chemical reactions and all that. That's kind of like magic, but but so here's the easy human recipe. The prep time on average is about 8 minutes. Um Incubate That's what they say. I don't know. Incubation time, about 9 months. Cook time, well, 18 years or more. But what are the ingredients of a 70 kg human being? And I ask patients who come to my office, I ask doctors who come to my office, I I put you on the spot here. What are we made of? Actually, we're made of water, protein, and fat. Where's the banana? We're not made of carbs, and this is a rev- a revelation to most people. Because what are you supposed to eat? Fruits and vegetables and carbs. No, no, no, that's not what we were made of. That's not the ingredients of the meatloaf. Carbs are the energy source. So, you add these ingredients and, you know, over time, the the human grows. And the carbs, sugars, and starches, or fat are used to fuel the body. So, think of it this way then, we eat to create and replenish the body composition, body composition, and we eat to fuel the body. Just like that meatloaf recipe. You got these ingredients, the ground beef and the pork rinds and the, you know, carnivore or whatever you eat. It could be lentils. And you can fuel the body on carbs. You can fuel the body on fat. Let's take away the judgment. And now, I mean, you don't have to put it in the oven. How many of you have air fryers? Crock pots. I mean, so it doesn't matter how you cook it. So, it doesn't matter how you cook the human, you know, metaphorically. You just want some fuel source. So, here here's the pie chart that actually I had to create myself. This is not This should be on every Captain Crunch box. At least in in the teaching that a lean human, 70 kg, is made mainly of water, protein, and fat. For how many of you is this kind of new? Just, you know, be honest. Yeah, we don't have this discourse. We don't teach this. And and we have to. We have to start teaching what we're made of. In fact, my going back to my middle school age daughter's class, they they asked me to come in and be a doctor and and do something interesting, and so I did. So, if you can imagine, I'm with these eighth graders, and I think, well, you know, I'm getting into this keto research, maybe I'll come up with a mock scenario that there's been a terrible disaster in the research lab and all vegetable matter will be dead in 1 year. There's this virus and it's going to be all over. So, so I have, you know, 40 teenagers, you know, kind of listening to me, kind of not. And I say, "So, I'm the expert. You're going to ask me any questions about what we're going to do. I mean, this is this a crisis?" And so, the questions come in. Well, do we need vegetables? And I said, "Well, you know, we looked at the Institute of Medicine report, and actually there's no essential carbohydrate. You don't need to eat vegetables if you get your nutrition from something else." So, we settled that, and the discussion went on, and then there was this this boy I I'll never forget. He kind of said, "Dr. Westman, you know, yes, Dr. Westman, I was Laura's dad, really right to them. Dr. Westman, we should eat other people." Imagine my Well, it was brilliant. He thought out of the box. And I mean, at the time there were these two books that I'll I'll again never forget, Guns, Germs, and Steel by Jared Diamond and and one on cannibalism, which, you know, you got into the idea that there were some societies that needed to survive. And you know, then we hear about disasters and all this, but so the brilliance, he said it we other people have everything we need. Wow. Now, I need your help, and and I think there need to be, you know, focus groups on how to message this in a little different way. I think I could finally said, "Now, don't go home and tell your parents we talked about cannibalism, please." So, the purpose of food, water, protein, and fat is to sustain what we are, replenish the body composition. The fuel for the enzymes, the growth, could be carbs, sugars, or fats, or it could be fat. This is not radical. And I think if we teach based on a recipe of what we are and then how we get the energy, separate that out. I've become I I teach this now this way in my clinic, and and what happens is some people, you know, the professors and all that are like, "Well, oh god, I got plenty of fat on my body. I know I I don't need to eat carbs. I I have fuel." Other people are a little slower on the uptake. And but the instructions for a human could be eat protein and fat to replace the body composition and eat carbohydrates and/or fat as your fuel. It's your choice. And now, that's for a lean person. Understanding, yes, do you get all the human essential nutrients when you just eat proteins and fats in an animal source diet? Yes, you do. And that was the first thing I had to establish for myself was that first, do no harm primum non nocere kind of idea that scientists and doctors have. So, don't worry, you're getting all the essential nutrients you need. But so, for general nutrition, you know, how about a um a uh you know, claps clap of hands at What do you think of eat what you're made of? Eat what you are. Now, that one, I'm afraid these have to be like decade, you know, contextual based on the the age of the person. That someone might think that's a zombie film and you actually eat a finger, right, literally. Literally, so you would You are what you keep from what you eat. Yeah, so that's Jeff Volek's idea. Jeff and Steve, my my colleagues, I've never really worked with them, wrote a book with them, and um they're the principles behind Virta Health, which is fantastic. But you know, I I think you are what you keep from you eat what was written by PhDs. You are what you keep from Now, it didn't work well in the clinic. So, I clinic tested something. Protein comes first. Prioritize protein. Oh, I think I see a winner. You can use sugar and starch and fat for energy. Yeah, not such great one. So now, welcome to my clinic. You come in. The average BMI in my clinic is about 33 kg per meter squared. So, this fellow is 350 lb, 170 kg. And this is what his body composition looks like. Yellow is mainly fat. So now, we have to have a strategy of teaching people what works across all conditions. When I went to the USDA food pyramid office as part of the Obesity Medicine Association, I met Susan Davis, who is one of the principles behind the food that shape that I hope no one will remember, the pyramid. And so, we went in and said, you know, but but you know, Ms. Davis, I forget if she was PhD, Dr. Davis, people aren't healthy. So, to have a healthy guide guideline for healthy Americans, that's what she said, "Well, this is for healthy Americans." We went in on behalf of the Obesity Medicine Association and said, "But people aren't healthy. You can't tell everyone to eat healthy when they're not healthy." That was news to them. Again, I think the guideline is just promoting foods America makes, basically by the lobbying of the companies, but that that's a hypothesis. But so, if someone comes in and they actually have mostly fat on their body, that's just fuel. It's just energy. So, the the idea in an Obesity Medicine clinic is that we try to get people to burn their own body fat. It could be by pills, it could be by diets, it could be by shots. The weight loss surgeons down the the street, well, they need a hospital operating room and hospital beds cuz sometimes it doesn't go so well, and and yet they're dealing with people with plenty of energy on their body. It's just people aren't drawing it down, not accessing it. So, you have to start early on to teach people sayings to prevent and to treat obesity. So, for weight loss and or obesity. So, consistent with what you've learned so far, adding on now, eat carbohydrates and or fat as fuel. It's your choice. However, it's the sugars and starches, the carbs, that are the fattening foods. Any Anyone like that one? It It's kind of long. [Applause] Bullet number two. Since we don't store sugar and starch, right? I just showed you we we store we're protein, we're fat, and we're water. Regardless of whether you're heavy or you're lean, since we don't store sugar and starch, extra sugar and starch gets turned into fat and stored as fat. And this is a something nobody knows. Nobody's taught this. Did you know sugar turns to fat? Just say no. Yeah, just say no. It's okay. To burn fat weight, just don't eat carbs. Okay. Okay. To burn fat weight, just don't eat carbs. You have plenty of stored fat right there. Okay, I only pull that off in the clinic with someone who I've established rapport with and and you know, I'll I'll point at my own body fat and say, you know, we got plenty of fat right here. Remember the Naked and Afraid program? Oh, yeah. They lose a pound or two per day. How do they stay alive and cuz they're burning their own body fat. They don't eat anything. They don't sleep. The bug bites or the rain, cold rain is so is so harsh. They're under lots of stress. Stress doesn't cause weight gain. For heaven's sake. It's the food. Okay. To lose weight, just don't eat carbs. It's so simple. That's my favorite, but my tagline is keto made simple cuz I'm teaching people from all uh backgrounds. High school educated, college educated. More sayings about weight loss. The body can burn carbs or fat, but it does not store carbs, it stores fat. So, you have to burn through all the carbs that you eat before your body will burn its own fat. And I've started to use the the um cabinet in my office as the fat store. And you know, here's your body composition. I have people step on a scale and you know, here's your 100 lbs of fat you have on your body and you know, the eyes are going like this. And it Imagine that it's up here in this cupboard and it's all locked up. You know, so you have to burn through all those carbs before your body's going to start burning its own fat. Why would it give it up? Bullet number two. Carb burning turns off fat burning. Extra carbs are changed into fat. Any No, yeah, it's kind of complicated there, right? Burning fat is like the accelerator on the car. Burning or eating or drinking carbs is like stepping on the brake. It stops the fat burning. Yeah. So, salt of the earth eighth grade education truck driver comes in, I use that one. And I say, what happens when you have the brake on and the accelerator on at the same time? Nothing moves. You know, so you have to match the teaching, but we have to teach that we're made of protein and fat, I believe. Eating or drinking carbs is like pouring water on your fat fire. Yeah. I was thinking maybe that would be my video that would go viral if I did it outside and and you know, and it went on me and I got burned. Good friend actually did that kind of a demonstration and it did go viral. Um So, how are we taught? Is it from your families? Sure. So, and we heard stories of of influential people in your life teaching what seems to be proper. Even looking back at what people were eating at that time, you know, in the 1950s, '40s, '30s cuz we've come through an era that's just bizarre with things that really aren't food. Is it high school? Is it frosted flakes? You know, what if there was some way to say, you know, you can't say your product is is good for diabetes unless you show it doesn't raise your blood sugar, which is what diabetes is, an elevated blood sugar. Whoa. I mean, even Glucerna, which is marketed out there for diabetes, and it does not keep the blood sugar low like this, couldn't say it's great for diabetes. Why do we let drugs Excuse me. Why do we let diets through without any kind of oversight if we don't let drugs through? If If If diet is as important or as a potent as drugs, why don't we have any kind of regulation of what they can put on a label? And let's get from cholesterol change. That just kills me. They Eat more Cheerios, lowers your cholesterol. They Come on. We have to get away from the cholesterol messaging to what are we made of? Eat what we're made of. Fuel your body with either fat or sugar. It's your choice. But if you don't want to gain extra fat on your body, you know, limit the carbs cuz you notice I didn't use carbs raise the blood glucose and raise the insulin. Oh, nobody in my clinic wants to hear that. You might be fast and do it that. But it's that's too deep. Just tell them what to do, really. And then in the Mediterranean diet, I just have to editorialize that there really are not great studies on the Mediterranean diet, but if you tell your doctor you're doing the Mediterranean diet, they'll say, "Oh, that's good." And they'll move on to the next question. Little secret, little pearl there. So, I'd like to just also say though, the easy human recipe asterisk, you start with an egg, fertilize the egg, feed it water, protein, fat, and an energy source. It could be starches and and sugar. I have a brother who who he eats more, he just burns it off. Kind of like Nick Norwitz. And it's not fair. That's okay, it's different metabolisms. If you didn't see Nick's video, he basically over consumed food and his body temperature went up and he didn't gain weight when the rest of us would have. So, there's individual variability. And then asterisk for best results, give it attention and love for the easy Maybe that's the complicated human being recipe. And you know, as a kind of final clinical uh pearl, is that it this may be simple, but it's not always easy. Holidays, family comes in, you know, whatever reason. And then in the south, basically carbs appear at your door if a family member dies. And and so, um I get that, you know, and and when I say just do this and and and it'll work, it's true. And but I'm trying to instill confidence in something that I've been using for 20 years and the people that I used this list of foods, basically just a list of foods. They used it for 30 years and basically it's going back to the hunter-gatherer thing that Remember that's really what we're trying to get back to through a lifetime of bizarre food and food-like things. Uh so, going back, what would be your best um saying for general nutrition? You're telling your kids, "Eat what you're made of." Anybody? Uh you clap your hands if you think it's good. Yeah. That's all right. Yeah. "Eat what you are." "John, eat." Yeah, okay, not a good one. You are what you keep from what you eat. Yeah, sorry, Jeff. Protein comes first. Prioritize protein. Now, the problem with that in my clinic is that people don't know what protein is. Thus, the beauty of a list of foods where people don't have to learn anything, really. It's just follow the list. Thus, the beauty of the carnivore diet. Just eat meat. It's pretty simple. Uh so, just as a So, as a final word, just when you're thinking about what you eat, you eat to replace your body composition and you eat to fuel the body, just like a recipe for meatloaf. Put in the ingredients and you bake it. Thank you. [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: iPhF0C6VbGY (https://youtu.be/iPhF0C6VbGY) ===

So that that really sort of won me over pretty quickly. But then it takes another turn, right? And and so not only how does a cardiologist become the medical director for Metabolic Mind, but how does a cardiologist who did his fellowship in an Ornish style, you know, fellowship preventive program now become a low carb and ketogenic advocate. And and so that's really the the turn. And >> and you're speaking Dornish, >> correct? A lot of people may not know who that is. >> Okay. So, good good point. So, he is one of the biggest um medical vegan advocate that you know any ounce of fat in the diet is going to kill you. Obviously, that's a overstatement, but that's not not much of an overstatement. Um and so, he's been an advocate of of of and he's a cardiologist, so he has established a preventive cardiology program that includes a vegan diet. But here's the thing, you know, we ran this this program and it was all about getting people to stop smoking, you know, getting them to start exercising, getting them to utilize stress management, building a community of individuals and love that stuff. And then there was the vegan diet part, which, you know, they sort of tolerated to be part of this program and people did well in the program. But the the problem is when you say, see, look, the vegan diet is what's helping these people. And unfortunately, that's what a lot of whether it's Dean Orish himself or the media surrounding his programs tends to portray it as, but really it's multiaceted. They're getting more attention, they're getting more handholding, they're getting better medical treatment, and they're getting stress management, exercise, community support. So anyway, so I love that part. But >> and so where were you at that time in your own opinion? Like for example, if I were to talk to Brett Sure. >> Yeah. Dare I ask like what time this was roughly >> 2000 2001. >> 2001. >> Is that right? Yeah. Somewhere around there. >> So let's say I approach Brett Sher. You're you're in residency by this point. >> This was fellowship at this >> fellowship. Okay. So I I talked to fellow Brett Sher and I go I'm curious how much of each of these things you just mentioned ceasing smoking more exercise. How much specifically does the plant-based diet matter for heart health given your best estimate? Because I have to be honest, doc, I'm not so sure if I'm as interested in a plant predominant diet. What would you have said then? >> I would have said it's crucial. >> Yeah, I would have said it is it is the key. Um, and that's just the way we're taught, right? And and it's the diet that helps lower LDL. Full stop. um don't need to consider anything else, you know. >> So, if id said then, okay, well, I've got a diet. It's not plant predominant, but it does keep my LDL down. >> Mhm. >> Would that be okay? >> Interesting. I mean, I think I would have been interested in it, but still, there's the lore of the vegan diet, the low-fat diet, that that in itself by definition is beneficial for cardiovascular disease. And I mean I want to kick myself now for even admitting that that's what I thought. But that's you know it's when you're when you're a resident or a fellow or a student, you're very impressionable, right? Like you're learning from these luminaries in your field who are the experts who've been doing this for decades, who write the papers, who do the research, who write the guidelines. That's exactly who you want to learn from, at least who you think you want to learn from at that moment. Um I've got no experience, right? And unfortunately, you know, the critical thinking part is is not or certainly was not as valued, I would say. Um, I mean, here, so here's an aside. I remember as a chief resident, um, so this was right before fellowship, one of the interns, so very beginning, just out of medical school, came up to me and we were talking about when to replace a heart valve for aortic stenosis. And the guidelines were if it's if you're not symptomatic, you don't replace it. And he's saying, "Well, well, why not? Like you're healthier, you're younger, and you know, it's going to get to that point. Why don't you replace it now before you get sick?" And I was just like, I don't want to hear it. You know, I was like, "No, the guidelines say this. Fast forward to now. They're replacing it much earlier now than they were back then. You know, techniques are a little bit different and the and the philosophy is changing." So that's the perfect example. I wanted to shut down his his critical thinking because it was against the guidelines. Now the guidelines have changed because of people doing critical thinking. And so we need to boy I'm going off on a tangent here. But we need to >> what this is for tangent away. >> Yeah. We we need to build that up. And so I I don't think we do that nearly enough. In fact, frequently we sort of bat it down. And so, and so I was at a point where I wasn't, you know, analyzing things critically. I was trying to be a sponge and soak everything up from around me. So, that was the low-fat vegan diet as being the diet for for heart health. Um, well, I do want to entertain your tangent for a second because guidelines are, I think, arguably very well-intentioned. It's meant to be a streamlining, if you will, of experts in the field to try to help clinicians so that they don't have to work as hard at doing the research, the hard work that they've done >> to make it in a more digestible form so that they can then pass it on to the care of their patients. But you zeroed in on what is also a bit of a problem, right? because we want that so much because we'd like to not have to think about things. Would that be a fair way of describing? >> Yeah. I mean, it's it's easier to practice medicine in a cookbook, follow the guidelines that tells you what to do type of pattern. Um, it's exhausting to have to critically think and and do a deep dive into every patient, every situation, every encounter. it's a lot easier to check, check, check and move on. Um, and that allows you to see more patients, to help more people. It allows your, you know, your hospital practice or your medical practice to survive and do better. And, you know, it's a win-win, right? Until you talk about the personalization of care and now you're treating one person like everybody else and do do those guidelines and that data actually apply to them and what is the quality of it, right? all these layers that it's much easier not to go into. But once you see those layers, it's like, wow, how can we how how could we have ignored them? Because those are such critical layers for you, the one individual I'm talking to right now as my patient. There's a also kind of an implicit assumption I think that all of us have with guidelines or institutions, which is if there's a change to be made, it's going to happen. that if there's a a change in how the field is thinking of something that we should see that developed in the guidelines quickly quickly. Well, that's what we would hope, right? >> Yeah, that's what we would hope, but it does not happen. I mean, it is painfully slow. You know, they people you can quote like it takes 17 years for practice to change. I've heard the fastest is like seven years, but the average is 17 years or something like that. I forget the exact the exact um numbers, but it it's painfully slow either way. Uh and you know the old saying that practice changes, policy changes one death at a time because people make their whole careers about a certain area of research and a certain stance and they work their way up to be in charge. And it's hard to change your mind and admit you were wrong and that the work you had done for decades there's a better way or a different way to do it. That's hard to do. I acknowledge that. But it it still needs to be done so often. And >> and I think the you know the group think mentality the the way it's always been the dogma there's a lot of power to that. Um and and that's a problem that we're facing in medicine. So, let's go back to the timeline. This is early 2000s. You're fully on board with what would arguably be the standard of care. You're guideline supported. >> Sure. >> When did you start changing gears? >> Well, so in fellowship, you're in a very sort of protected environment still, right? The patients, they're not really my patients. I'm not following them for a long period of time. I'm, you know, it's a three-year fellowship. So the longest you could follow anybody is three years, but even within that framework, it's usually much shorter. And you're rotating among the different um rotations. You're doing time in the Kath lab and whatever. So it it wasn't until I got out of the fellowship into my own practice. Now, okay, now they're quote unquote my patients. You know, I'm more responsible for their outcomes and their care and I'm going to see them over the long run. And you see like the effect that you're having on people is not minimal. Like look, and don't get me wrong, cardiology can do amazing things. If I'm having a heart attack, I need my heart valve replaced or I'm in severe heart failure, there is no place I would rather be than in a US hospital having, you know, the well-trained cardiologists take care of me with the medications and the devices that we have for those extreme circumstances. But when it comes to well, how about we can do our best to make sure you don't need those and that you can get healthy and you can reverse conditions and you can, you know, improve your quality of life without having to get to that extreme. That's where we're not so good. And that was the realization that I had. So, first that patients weren't getting better um as quickly or as as drastically as I hoped they would, but two, nobody, and I mean almost nobody quote unquote complied with lifestyle recommendations. The recommendations being reduce your fat, reduce your calories, exercise more, standard of care, supported up and down by the guidelines. And people don't want to do it. They just whether they Sorry, let me rephrase that. Not that they don't want to do it. It's that is really hard to do it. You know, people don't enjoy it. People get cravings. People get hungry. People get emotional and they just sort of give up. They don't have the support that they would need to do it and then in the long run it just doesn't work for them. So they come back and what do you do? You check the box that you know advised on lifestyle lifestyle unsuccessful or non-compliant with lifestyle and then you move on to the drugs. And it was this circular circular component that just kept happening. And I said, "There's got to be a better way." You know, it's that old analogy. If you're teaching a class and and one kid fails and everybody else passes, you're probably doing a good job. But if 90 kids fail and two kids pass, it's not the kids' fault. That's when you got to look internal. So that was sort of the reckoning I had when all of a sudden it was, you know, lifestyle wasn't working, diet wasn't working, exercise wasn't working. is like, hm, maybe it's not them. Maybe it's me, maybe it's the recommendations, and maybe there's a better way to do it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: aLe7oq_BvDY (https://youtu.be/aLe7oq_BvDY) ===

Our next speaker is a former radiologist, radiation oncologist who now empowers patients to achieve optimal metabolic health through a datadriven teleaalth approach. Please welcome Christy Kesler. All right. Thanks. Uh so yes, radiation oncologist turned metabolic health practitioner. left my conventional standard of care oncology job three years ago. Uh we're going to talk today about the first published case of a ketogenic diet actually reversing a persistent kyoththorax. So what is a kyoththorax? A kyoththorax is the accumulation of kyle fluid in the plural space typically due to an injury of the thoracic duct. Kyle is a milky fluid composed of lymphatic and emulsified fats. And this kyoththorax can be spontaneous, infectious, malignant or traumatic. And although rare, the most common traumatic reason is a surgical trauma during a chest surgery. So, in this chest X-ray picture, you can see what we would call a an air fluid level or or or the black of the the air in the lung and the white of the fluid below compressing that right lung. So, how do we digest and absorb fatty acids? So, when we eat fat, it's broken down in the digestive tract. Uh short and mediumchain fatty acids are absorbed directly into the blood stream via the portal system. But the longchain fatty acids are absorbed into the intestinal cells and reassembled in triglycerides. So triglycerides, cholesterol, phospholipids and other particles form a kyomicron and those kyomicrons then enter the lymphatic capillaries along the gut and enter the lymphatic system. Now the thoracic duct is the largest uh lymphatic vessel in the body and it's located in the chest. And when kyomicrons enter these little lymphatic capillaries, they merge into larger vessels and then carry these uh vessels carry the kyomicron rich uh fluids to the thoracic duct. Now when that thoracic duct is damaged that kyus fluid traveling through the duct then leaks into that chest cavity causing a kyoththorax. Now this can cause as you can imagine if it's compressing your lung it can cause shortness of breath, cough, chest pain and symptomatic treatment is removal of the fluid and we do that via a needle uh called a thorosentesis. Now how might you fix a kyoththorax? Well there are surgical interventions lia loation of the uh thoracic duct embleization of that duct. conservative approaches. So non-surgical approaches would be just repeat thorosentesis and hope that it stops reaccumulating. Uh placement of a chest tube or bypassing that whole kyomicron thing and using total parental nutrition or IV nutrition without or with mediumchain triglycerides as a source of fat and fuel or very commonly a very low-fat diet with or without MCT. system will encourage the use of MCT oils again bypassing that gut uh kyomicron formation. So again remember right that the longchain fatty acids uh are packaged into kyomicrons which are transported to the thoracic duct whereas the MCT oils are direct into the portal system. So now to our case study. Uh when I met Julie she was a 61-year-old female. She had a history of endometriosis. She was obese. She also had hypertension. And I will not give away my kicker yet. Um but she underwent back in 2012 she underwent a hysterctomy bilateral spingoerectomy for endometriosis. Now her endometriosis was quite extensive and the left ovary was actually removed in pieces due to the extent and left a little behind. um on her gynecologist followed her extremely closely for many years and seven years later she was found to have a new mass in that left pelvic region. So she got a CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis which did show recurrent mass at that left edanexa. Um incidentally they found a lesion in the left lower lobe of the lung. So they did a full CT scan of the chest and found three lung nodules. The largest, most irregular lesion was in the right middle lobe. Now, they attempted a biopsy of this right middle lobe lung lesion, but they were unsuccessful. And being that they were small and not too suspicious, they decided just follow her closely with CT scans. And these were stable for three years. But around the same time that her recurrent endometriosis was progressing, so did that right middle lobe lung nodule. So it increased almost doubled in size. Um a PET scan was done at that time and if you guys are familiar with PET scans we do radial lababeled glucose injected and and we look to see where it goes and and if lung nodules light up they are more suspicious for malignancy and it depends on how hot or how much uptake they have and it was suspicious. Um the other two lung nodules did not light up. So again could be benign old scar whatever. um another CTG guided biopsy was attempted of this middle lobe lesion and again was unsuccessful. So they proceeded to what would be considered an excisional biopsy or a wedge resection. So they removed this lung nodule but in the operating room found that it was in fact a cancer and so they actually completed the middle lobe lobectomy and removed eight lymph nodes and the pathology showed much larger lesion 4.2 two centimeters high-grade so very aggressive uh uh malignancy um but it was found to be a menioma. Now fortunately the margins were negative, the lymph nodes were all negative. They sampled even the plural fluid and it was negative. But a meningioma uh is actually a tumor of typically the meninges of the brain, right? So they thought that maybe this was a metastasis from a brain tumor. So they did MRI imaging of the brain and the spine and they didn't find a primary. So she was labeled as a primary menioma of the lung which is ex exceedingly rare. um one week posttop uh she had a standard routine uh chest X-ray which revealed a moderate plural eusion so similar to what we saw on the first slide uh and that thorosentesis was done that removed 300 milliliters of a white milky fluid. Now, they didn't actually test the fluid at that time, and unfortunately, six weeks later, she then presented with pretty significant and progressive shortness of breath and cough. They did a CT scan at this time, so again, this for dating purposes. This was in February of 2023, shortly before I met Julie. Um, and this revealed a large right plural eusion. Now, you can in a CT scan, since we're laying on our back going through the scanner, the water pools along the back of the body as opposed to in a chest X-ray, we're usually standing or sitting upright and it pools at the bottom of the lung. Um, now, uh, again, they did relook at these other two lung nodules and commented that they were still stable. So, that was good news. Um, and they proceeded to a second thorosentesis. This time over a liter of fluid was rem uh moved again that cloudy white fluid. Thankfully no evidence of malignancy or other pathology in that fluid. It did show chronic inflammatory changes and had over 3,000 nanogs uh per deciliter of triglyceride and you only have to have about over 110 nanogs milligrams per deciliter to be considered positive for a kyoththorax. So a clear kyoththorax. they did not test it for cholesterol. Um, she did meet with a dietician to talk about a low-fat diet because we need to avoid all those longchain fatty acids. And so she did exactly what she was told. Ate lean fish, chicken breasts, egg whites, you know, the usual whole grains, fruits, vegetables, lowfat dairy, uh, and protein smoothies. Um about six weeks later though her respiratory complaints returned and she was again found to have a very large plural eusion and again had a thorosentesis of again a greater than one liter. Now they did the chest x-ray after draining that fluid and you can see how that fluid is down at the bottom of that lung but you can still see what we would call an air fluid level kind of a white line along that bottom. Um she was then scheduled because they assumed okay she's going to re you know get another leader in six weeks. They said well why don't you come back in two weeks for a chest X-ray and and in you know let's get you on the schedule for doing an embleization uh in June. So I met Julie uh in midappril and prior to her coming to see me I get a set of labs. Um I these are the ones that I pull out just looking at insulin resistance. So my optimal range again I usually deal with cancer patients. Um she wanted to see me because she had this diagnosis of cancer kind of stumbled onto this idea of the metabolic approach to cancer and wanted knew that she ultimately should be going on a ketogenic diet and wanted help with that. So I ran a few labs and we can see that although her glucose and insulin actually look pretty good, her triglycerides are higher than I like to see it. Her HDL is very low. And if we look at kind of the classic insulin resistance calculations, homir looks great, but triglyceride HDL ratio very high, triglyceride glucose index very high. Um, we discussed how we would start a ketogenic diet after her embleization. We talked about adding MCT oil and removing a lot of the high glycemic carbohydrates. Um, we talked about the pros and cons of starting a ketogenic diet. Now, you know, does she want to make that potentially that eusion faster, worse? Um, well, Julie decided to start her highfat ketogenic diet right away. She said, "I don't have any time to lose. I'm obese. I've got this endometriosis. I've got a cancer. They're going to drain me and embleize me anyway. So, if it doesn't do anything for it, no big deal. Um, she did a very standard highfat ketogenic diet. She did include some MCT oil in her fatty coffees. Um, and she went in for her routine chest X-ray uh about two weeks or so after that prior and they did see some increase in fluid, but not to the degree that she had had in the past and she was completely asymptomatic. So, they said, "You know what? just come back in a month, four more weeks and we'll just drain you. So she went back and they prepared her for a thorosentesis. They didn't reimage her. They just assumed it would be very high. And in fact, they couldn't really find the fluid. And so they thought it the probe was broken and went and got another probe and did that again. And they said, "Hm, that's interesting. We we're not really seeing the fluid." So, they did another chest X-ray and they could see that it obviously went down from her prior uh X-ray and said, "What are you doing? I'm doing a ketogenic diet." They put it in her note. So, it actually made it into her medical record. So, that's outstanding. Um anyway, the thorentesis got cancelled and her planned embleization were canceled. They had her come back in another uh month to repeat the chest X-ray and you can see that that is even more improved. You can't really see an air fluid level anymore. And then a week later they did a CT scan to confirm it. You can see there's absolutely no fluid pooling along the back. So when we looked at uh her labs over the time, you can see that uh even though her glucose and insulin looked o okay at fasting, we knew she had some degree of insulin resistance. Her insulin improved even more. Her triglycerides dramatically reduced over the course of those three months. Her HDL came way up. Um and all of her insulin resistant markers improved. So why might this have happened if this just it doesn't make sense. She ate all of the saturated fat. We should have had lots of kyomicrons. Well, what we know is that those who have insulin resistance have elevated kyomicron levels compared to healthy controls. That those with insulin resistance have impaired kyomicron clearance. Kyomicrons can actually activate inflammatory pathways, promote pro-inflammatory cytoines. And lymphatic fluid is altered in obesity and insulin resistance with increased pro-inflammatory cytoines and inflammatory lipids. So ketogenic diets we as we all know typically significantly reduce triglyceride levels. So we have this decreased inflammatory state. We have this improved kyomicron processing. Um so I don't know the exact mechanism on the on the positive. I have talked with Dr. Oveda and who's a cardiothoracic surgeon who is planning on using a ketogenic diet now in uh any of his cases which aren't many um but it'll be you know we need to get cardiothoracic surgeons seeing this data because you know the power of a ketogenic diet and and we had no idea. So thank you very much. [applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: YPsipyKKm_Y (https://youtu.be/YPsipyKKm_Y) ===

So, I want to talk a little bit more about black mold because >> as you said, you you didn't actually know about it probably if people weren't catching. You can have black mold exposure, have absolutely no idea. There's not a scent. There's not a you just [clears throat] have symptoms of it and then you later find out it's in the house or you have ways to detect it, >> right? >> How did you ultimately figure out that that's what it was? Well, in the summer of 2016, I felt so bad I had to reduce my work hours. So, at the time, I was working three and a half days a week. So, I cut it to three days a week. And then I actually saw patients for a longer period of time, you know, like in so I was seeing less people per week. Okay. So, now I have a 4-day weekend, Friday, it's all through Monday. And so I'm at home taking supplements, working out, not knowing what what the heck was going on. And um through the summer I was doing better and better. I remember in the fall, it was October, end of October, and I came to the to work on Tuesday morning, starting my work week Tuesday morning, and I had no chest pain for the first time in a long time and probably a year. And I was very happy about that. But by one o'clock lunchtime, my chest pain was a six out of 10. I was like, "Okay, now I know it's absolutely 100% it's in the office." And it's either one of two things. I either have bad wiring causing dirty electricity in the walls or something or it's that little black patch where the paint had come off the wall and there's black exposure, right? because the paint was, you know, was hanging down and I was like, that's maybe that's black mold, right? So, I took that sample and around the corner was a lab. So, I put in a little baggie. I gave it to them and it came back positive. Aspiggillis, stackibbotus, penicyium, and you know, aspiggillis and stackibatus, those are both deadly. And I was like, okay, I'm on to something now. So, I either have to move out or they're going to fix it. And I knew they weren't going to fix it. decided to move out. >> There were other people that were working in the office. >> Yeah. >> And were they experiencing any symptoms? >> Yeah. Yeah. And I and I realized it too. I was like, why are my staff not getting better? Like we're this is a health health improvement center. It's called the nutritional healing center. Why are they not getting better? And that was the reason why. And so here's here's here's what was happening. So the building was built in 1990 and it was prefab walls that they just stuck into the ground like sort of like concrete pseudo brick, right? And um rain, sideways rain would drive right through it there. The walls were porous. >> So when it was windy and rainy, the rain would come in and touch the drywall on the inside. Wow. >> So you couldn't see it cuz it was on the other side. And but now my windows would rain on the inside, right? Like the >> the windows were it was raining inside. See what I'm saying? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. coming down from the top of the wall. And there's um and now this building was one of four and it was a total of 100,000 square feet. And when you walk by these windows of the the other four buildings of three buildings, you could see water stains everywhere. And what's funny is right now in this complex there's a water mold remediation company and they're they're in a moldy building, right? Anyways, I I just think that's funny. So now, if you're wondering if you have mold in your house, you can do an hermy test, erm, and you can also just buy uh you can hire a professional. They'll test your air and you can go to Lowe's or Home Depot and you get like a petri dish or an air capture test for like I don't know 100 bucks or whatever. Capture the mold and then send it to a lab. So, and then otherwise you're looking with your own eyes. You're looking for black mold. Maybe you have to tear through some drywall. You you're smelling it, especially if it's rainy or humid. You're looking you're looking in your vents and you're smelling, right? You're using your senses. So, that's how you got to investigate. And let's not forget the other causes of like um toxic buildings. So, I already mentioned the uh the gas leaks. You can buy a $25 pen looking structure that you know you can turn on, it'll smell gas off. You buy that off Amazon. But also, um bat guano. People have bats in their attic. That is a problem. and uh radon. >> So different c different different parts of the country have high radon including where I live. So when I moved into my house by law you have to test for radon and it was normal and uh but then I had my um my crawl space insulated. So now the air doesn't leave the crawl space it just goes straight up into the building into the house. So radon u I I test radon this past spring and sure enough it was high. So I was living in radon for 5 years and that can cause trouble. I had a patient this is this year and she would wake up every morning with really high blood pressure and just feeling really bad chest pain. I put her on B1 the chest pain went away and then she heard my story about the radon because I put that on YouTube and so her and her husband talked about it. They had a radon mitigation system in the house. It just wasn't plugged in. So he plugged it in, turned it on. The next next morning she woke up, blood pressure normal. I think I think a lot of people with high blood pressure, yes, they have metabolic syndrome, but let's not forget about it could be radon, it could be toxic mold, it could be hystopplasmosis from bat guano in your attic >> or just a combination >> combination of all of it. Yeah, it's complex. This is a complex chronic illness. Heart disease is a complex chronic illness. It's not just LDL. It's not just April B or whatever, you know, it's lipoprotein A. It's it's more than just the lipids. There's other factors. Yeah. It's I think one of the biggest blind spots right now is how much the environment is impacting everything. I remember when the for like a little while people were doing it was kind of a hotness for a while as the glasses that you'd put on at night, >> right? >> To block out the blue light or something like that. >> And I don't want to be dismissive of it, but for some people it seemed to be very effective. But I even as I was looking at that, I was like, I just have a feeling there are other environmental considerations that probably outrank it that just aren't sexy and new and and cool to talk about like you're talking. So gas leak's a great example. >> Naturally, the first thing I think of when I hear that is, >> oh, well, that's all right because you can smell the gas because they typically put put the odor into it. But actually, what if it's a tiny gas leak? If it's a tiny gas leak, I could see that not being something we would smell. Longer term exposure. So, you got that AO, you know, AU for a long enough time, >> that could be a problem for sure. >> Yeah. >> But you don't you don't normally have a gas leak detector in a typical >> home. So, I told this to a patient. He goes, "Yeah, he he does um fence and installation and repair." He goes, "I'm in people's backyards all the time. I smell gas all the time." Oh wow. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. And what do you do? Like you've in order to just find these things, you've just got to be mindful to know to look. >> Yeah. You got to be a detective. >> So you would speculate that a decent component of chronic disease, maybe not entirely, but at least combinatorily, could be environmental exposures like you yourself have kind of endured, >> right? And in two of your three cases, you didn't know for months. Right. Right. So the for the black mold, it was what nine months, 10 months, something like that. >> Right. Well, I was in the office for 13 years. >> Oh, wow. >> And I had my original heart symptom was 2009 and I moved in there what 2004 or whatever. So >> yeah. And but it just got worse and worse. In 2016 was my worst year. Do you think that if you just literally moved into a different office, you might not have experienced that event? >> Right. Yeah. And I So, you know, as a clinician, one way to learn fast is to get really, really sick and almost die several times. >> So, you you know, it speeds up your learning curve, right? Right. >> So, and people told me, well, it must be God's plan or, you know, from pain to purpose. I'm like, shut up. Like, there's got to I could have just gone to a seminar, you know, but no, I had to learn it for myself. It's I well that was the case with me in cholesterol like I I so here I am >> my dad my sister all of us we have just this wonderful six seven months of discovering keto and we're all killing it and they get their blood work first and their cholesterol hardly moved and I'm like okay cool they're we're not part of that genetic millu >> and then all of a sudden mine skyrockets and yeah had I not experienced all of those benefits from keto like if I had if I got my blood work like right way. It's a pretty decent chance I wouldn't be on a keto diet right now or definitely wouldn't be connected to all this research. But it's because of all the benefits while having to face simultaneously this just gigantic leap in my cholesterol, >> right, >> became a massive motivator, >> right? >> And uh really derailed me from everything I was doing to just focusing on that, >> right? But it's been a regular theme in this podcast is a lot of people [clears throat] like yourself, they have to face the darkness, the deep darkness of of just how bad things can get, >> right? So when the symptoms are persisting, you know, for months and years and then I mean, thank God we have YouTube and we have we can have, you know, absolutely great information for free basically. So should we can we start talking about MVX? >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. >> Okay.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: B66AM-y_3dk (https://youtu.be/B66AM-y_3dk) ===

Uh, this next speaker is a transformative advocate for metabolic health, full-time content creator, and soon to be published author. Please welcome Jenny Midich. [applause] Hello, my name is Jenny Midich and today I'm going to be covering when carnivore isn't enough: Overcoming stubborn insulin resistance. Ah, here are my disclosures. I am a carnivore educator on YouTube, Instagram, and Tik Tok. I have sponsorships and/or affiliate relationships with the following companies. And my book, Complete Carnivore, will be released in September. It's a complete in-depth guide to the carnivore diet, along with 80 plus recipes. Now, albe it to say, I believe that a carnivore diet is one of a handful of healthy ways to eat, or as Dr. Kenberry would say, a proper human diet. Now, for most people that start a carnivore diet, they will lose a bunch of weight, improve their uh regulate their blood sugar, and improve their overall metabolic health. But there is a small subset of people that can go zero carb and not lose any weight whatsoever or see any improvements in their insulin sensitivity and overall metabolic health. And for these people, they can feel like nothing will work and it can be incredibly frustrating. My husband Goran is one of these people. Uh in December 2022, he and I started the carnivore diet. And about 18 months later, I had lost almost 50 pounds and he had lost nothing. At times, sometimes gaining weight. So, what was different between the two of us? Why was I responding so differently to the same foods? Why was he responding so differently to the same foods? Well, there's a few things. Gour is a 49year-old male. He is an electrical engineer and he has had a desk job for the bulk of his adult years. From the ages of 22 to 42, he was morbidly obese. He weighed anywhere between 300 to 400 lb at his heaviest. And during that time, he ate a standard American diet, lots of fast food, uh, high sugar, ultrarocessed foods. Now, in 2016, he decided that enough was enough after stumbling upon the book Wheat Belly by Dr. William Davis. And then that book led him to the obesity code by Dr. Jason Fun. And he, you know, kind of dived into the whole world of fasting and low carb diets. So Goran used keto and water fasting to lose 130 lbs between 2016 and 2017, which got him down into the 270s, where he has remained plus or minus 20 pounds. Now, for me on the other hand, I'm female. I'm 40. I've been up and down in weight, but I've been normal weight most of my life. Uh, I've been pretty physically active and worked non-sedentary jobs. But for the bulk of my life, I did eat a standard American diet. And in my teens and 20s, I battled drug and alcohol addiction. So, Gor and I, we are very different people. We have different lived experiences and different metabolic health profiles. And while my body was responding very well to eating close to zero carbs, his body was not. And in fact, his metabolic health was declining a little bit. So his blood pressure was starting to inch a bit higher along with his average glucose as measured by a continuous glucose monitor. And you know, these numbers weren't anything too bad. His blood pressure was like 130 over 90 to 150 over 100. And his average glucose was between 100 to 130 milligrams per deciliter. but it wasn't trending in the right direction. Now, for those of you that have watched my YouTube channel, you'll know that I do a lot of Nof of experiments that involve a lot of blood work. Of course, using Own Your Labs for most of that blood work. Uh, so we decided to run some on Goran and discovered that his fasting insulin was in the high teens. He had elevated HSCP, homocyine, and feritin. His triglycerides were in the 200s. His HDL was in the 20s. and we got him a keto mojo meter and discovered that he was almost never in nutritional ketosis. His ketones were always just complete garbage. He he would struggle to have ketones of between 0.1 to.3 millmers per liter even after eating zero carbs for weeks and months on end. And this didn't make a lot of sense to us because we just assumed that if you weren't eating any carbs that you would be in ketosis. Uh but he clearly was not. And the final clue that we were dealing with some stubborn insulin resistance came in June of 2024 when we attended the Hack Your Health conference and we got him a DEXA scan and we discovered that he had almost nine pounds of visceral fat. So visceral fat if you're if you don't know it's the fat that's inside your body, the trunk of your body around your organs and you don't want very much of it. Um large amounts of visceral fat are a clear indicator of insulin resistance. So it was at that point that we decided we needed to have a bit more aggressive of a strategy to get this insulin resistance under control. Uh which in turn would reset his metabolism so that it would respond correctly, respond the way it should to an ultra- low carb diet, which is overall, you know, reductions in blood glucose, fasting insulin, uh overall weight, and the visceral fat uh declining. And you know, Goran didn't want to use any kind of pharmacological interventions until we had exhausted all the other options. So, we decided to get back to what we knew was most effective for him, uh, which is an ultra- low carb diet paired with water fasting. So, we spent June and July of 2024 figuring out the different lengths of fasts and dialing in the nutrition and the exercise. And in August, we implemented our new protocol. So Goran would do one long water fast per month of 10 to 14 days and then sprinkled in the rest of the month if we had some time we'd do a few shorter ones of three to four days in length. When he was eating he would eat carnivore or ketovore. If he was consuming plants he would have maybe some kimchi or a salad. And then as far as movement goes we would do um one to three days a week uh walking and some light strength training. And that was that. Measurement wise, we settled on once a month blood work and DEXA scans along with continuous glucose monitoring and uh weight on the scale. So our ultimate goal obviously is to resolve the insulin resistance. And the way that we would know that we were making progress was through lower visceral fat levels, improved blood workers, and overall weight loss. Now, I hypothesized that there was going to be some point where like a switch would flip and his body would start to respond to carnivore the way it should. And I didn't know if that was going to be at a certain level of visceral fat loss or if it was going to be at a certain level of overall weight loss. And we haven't quite gotten to that switch flip moment yet, but we are getting close. So, February, just a few days ago, we did our blood work index scans for the month. So let's take a look at some data and see the progress that Gor has made over the past 8 months. Starting with blood work. So fasting insulin, we started around 10.5. Lowest point was a 2.9 in October. That was after a 14-day uh water fast. You can see that nice big blip in January. I think that was because he had forgotten to stop taking his B vitamins and sometimes that can affect fasting insulin. But as of Tuesday, back down to 5.5. A1C started at 5.6. Now it's hovering between 5.1 to 5.2. His triglyceride started around 200. Inching down again. We had a kind of a blip in January of 319. Back down to 161 right now. [clears throat] I don't really know what caused the January one. Could it have been weight loss? Sometimes your triglycerides can go up because of that. It could have been a testing anomaly or it could have just been, you know, a legit rise in his triglycerides. The only way we would have known that is by measuring. Otherwise, you know, if we had just measured at that point, we would have been like, "Oh, okay. What is that?" HDL cholesterol. This one has been uh rough for us. We haven't been able to get him above 35. I think that this marker is going to be something that's really going to shift once we hit that switch flip moment and get him above 40. Uh above 50 would be ideal. Inflammation markers, we've got some HSCRP. Started in the high twos. had a bit of wonkiness in August, September, and October and is now settled at 2.5. Vitamin D, we live in the Chicagoland area. We do not get a lot of sunlight. We do supplementation, and that one's been been hard for us, too. We've finally gotten him above 30, uh, but obviously we'd like to get that higher. Feritin has been inching lower, so that's good. I wanted to touch on the continuous glucose monitor data quickly um just to show just how stubborn his insulin resistance is and just how important it is for him specifically to throw in those really long water fasts. September and October we were able to do that be really strict 94 92 November um for my book 80 plus recipes we had to do photos for and we had a lot of extra food laying around albeit it was carnivore um we ate a lot of food um so we didn't have a lot of time for fasting December holidays January uh 101 109 variability is just the peaks and valleys in your in your uh glucose numbers and you want that to be a 15 or less September October 15 December 22 January 16 sleep average 90 87 in September and October 95 in December 104 in January and one of the places where we see a lot um of issues with the um not being able to get those long fasts in is the morning average really good in September and October December 97 January 110 so it's really important for us to keep that consistency let's move into some DEXA scan data first off total body fat percentage started around 41 to 42.5% now we are at 36% as of uh Tuesday total lean mass I wanted to touch on this because there is a fine line between starvation and fasting and if you're losing a bunch of lean mass you don't want to be doing that and you can see that he has been between 133 and 135 pounds of lean mass the entire time. So he's doing great there. And then the visceral fat reading, 8.93 lbs is what we started with and he is now down to 5 lbs. So that is awesome. Goran started at 270 lb in June and as of Thursday he weighs in at 220 lbs. And instead of showing you a photo, Goran, why don't you just stand up so we can see you in all of your glory? Yeah, he's doing really, really good. [clears throat] The experiment continues. Uh we plan to continue this protocol until we have him between 190 and 200 pounds with less than one pound of visceral fat. We'd like all of his blood workers also to be in the optimal functional medicine ranges that you'll see on the screen. And you'll be able to get this slide later if you if you are curious about it. So we do have some key takeaways. The first off, you can remain insulin resistant even if you're eating zero carbs. But there are some clues that it's happening. If you have elevated glucose, fasting insulin, blood pressure, triglycerides, inflammatory markers, along with high levels of visceral fat after at least 90 days on an ultra- low carb diet, that could be a clue that perhaps throwing some fasting in would be helpful. Second takeaway, fasting paired with an ultra- low carb diet and light movement is highly effective for improving your insulin sensitivity. Goran saw his very best visceral fat losses when he had moderate intensity exercise 6 hours per week along with very strict carnivore and that 10 to 14 day fast. You can see went down really quick there. And then we had um over the holidays less opportunities for those longer fasts, less exercise, visceral fat loss slowed. But I think it's important to note that most if not all weight loss journeys are not a linear path straight down. and consistency is key, but as long as you're making some progress, that is great. Um, fasting can be considered in people with normal to elevated BMIs, lots of energy to tap into. Goran is an experienced faster. He did not start with 10 to 14 day fasts. He started years ago with intermittent fasting and then worked his way up. And I don't think 10 to 14 day fasts are necessary for a lot of people. Um, some people could do protein sparing modified or even sardine fasting could yield similar results. And I think it's important that you know without the measurement tools that we use such as blood work, CGMs, DEXAs, we wouldn't have had any idea what was going on internally. So it's very important that you are measuring your progress in some way. Um you also have to pay attention to some lifestyle stuff. Uh it's not just food, it's sleep and stress. Goran had been dealing with some very high stress the summer of 2023 into 2024. And high stress can lead to visceral fat accumulation. Now Goran's inflammation remains a bit high uh but that may be due to the high stress nature of his work or perhaps the remaining visceral atyposity but we are relatively confident that that inflammation will continue to decline as the visceral fat goes down. Now, while it can be incredibly frustrating and mind-boggling when you're not losing weight on a low carb diet, you are not alone and there are levers that you can pull to get things moving in the right direction. Um, here are some resources for you. These are the books that Goran read to get him started along with my link to my YouTube channel. All my other socials are linked there. We're going to be sharing more about Goran's journey as we continue this experiment on the channel, but this is the very first time that we've shared this data anywhere. So, thank you so much for your attention. If you have any questions, please, you know, come up to me, Goran, during this conference at any time. We're more than happy to chat with you. So, thank you very much. [applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: VvrreFyIKgY (https://youtu.be/VvrreFyIKgY) ===

I I'd heard from my professors, they drilled it into us that it's the data point that doesn't fit that leads to scientific discoveries and new insight. And I believe they had one. And with that fantastic movie last night, I believe even stronger that they have one with LMHRs. Well, if you go into space exploration, you're going to be a rockstar and you're going to be the life of any party you attend. But if you go into climate science, industry is coming for you because the thing you hear over and over and over again is you can't uh infer causality from observational data. What? I don't think I had ever heard that before. For our next speaker, we have a Stanford educated earth scientist with 17 years of field experience who helped build OS powered OS powering both OSX and iOS with Steve Jobs and has been passionate about longevity since his early days as Jack Lane's Caddy. Please welcome Chris McCascal. >> Thanks. The uh the only thing is speaking for Steve Jobs uh he would have insisted that we say it OS10 not not OSX. So my talk is how I believe big data will revolutionize uh nutrition as it has almost every other field I've ever been involved in. Let's see how this clicker works. Look at that. My alternative title that I amused myself with was who let the vegan in here? Dave. Hey, that photo is of Austrian's new dietary guidelines. And they've got red meat in there and yogurt and cheese and eggs. So, we um I have so much respect for what Dave is doing with this conference because he likes to hear alter other voices, many voices uh combined. And I feel the same way. And that's why I had Nick and Dave on my Viva Longevity um YouTube channel because I thought I I'd heard from my professors, they drilled it into us that it's the data point that doesn't fit that leads to scientific discoveries and new insight. And I believe they had one. And with that fantastic movie last night, I believe even stronger that they have one with LMHRs. This guy changed my life, Steve Jobs, because he had a philosophy of hiring people with different points of view and hearing them out. He had done it many times before. This is the core Macintosh team. And that is Joanna Hoffman. She had a PhD in Middle East archaeology. What is she doing as the product manager of the original Macintosh? That's Bill Atkinson. He was working on his PhD in neurochemistry when Steve hired him to help develop the Macintosh. And that's Andy Herzfeld. And I was going to say he is the most passionate software engineer I've ever seen in my life. He would say we poured love into the computer and it radiated it back to us on the screen. He hired Susan K who changed the world of art. uh who gave the Macintosh personality and last night's movie I was thinking well maybe Dave is almost as passionate as Andy or more so this is the computer we were developing Steve had left Apple for whatever reason and wanted to build a new computer and the way he saw it was it was more robust it wouldn't crash as often uh and it would play stereo music and so on but I saw it I had been an earth scientist for 17 years and the idea of me going into ex computer and interviewing for a job just didn't seem reasonable. But the way I saw it is big data. I'd been involved in big data and this computer could support multiprocessors and you could gang them together to solve big problems. You could have a whole room of them together. So we just had a different point of view and Steve and I argued back and forth on many things. It wasn't that it was always congenial. It was that we all wanted to hear everybody else's point of view. And then when Apple bought Next and uh our operating system drove the renaissance uh that became Apple because it became the operating system for it became OS 10 and also the operating system for the iPhone. We they spent five years struggling to develop that operating system and it ended up changing the world. Well, then Joanna, uh, Andy and Bill started a new company and they recruited me as an early employee, General Magic. And their idea was to put a little magic in your pocket and develop, uh, what we were thinking of as a smartphone. This was in 1994. And, um, we were ahead of our time in terms of electronics, wireless networks, and so on. So, we couldn't make it commercial as we wanted. But the engineers and scientists who helped with this project went on to Apple, developed the iPhone, went on to Google uh through a circuitous route and developed the Android phones. And Bill and Andy and and Joanna changed the world a second time. And now it just freaks me out whenever I go to a conference and see an audience like this and they hold up their phones and turn on the light. Everyone has got one in their pocket. We were in Uganda a few months ago. very poor people and everyone had one even though they didn't have agricultural equipment beyond a hoe. So when I was a young teen, this is when my interest in nutrition got started because I had a side hustle of cadding at the Renda Country Club and there were a lot of celebrities who came there and this was Jack Lane. This photo was taken when he was almost 40 years old. The caddy master made the fateful decision of assigning me as his caddy and I would talk to Jack as we went around the golf course and he would lecture me on nutrition. His he was influenced by being raised by his mom who was a 7th day Adventist. He was influenced by Anel Keys. I know he's probably not your favorite person in the world, but he was a towering figure uh in those days because of his best-selling books and the cover of Time magazine and so on promoting the Mediterranean diet. But my father was interested in books like this. Jack was a a TV star. He had a show for 36 years. Um, and a Hollywood star. Dr. Carlton Frederick's was a radio star. He had a show for 30 years, six days a week for an hour. It was a call-in show. I've got, by the way, all the books um that I'm going to show in this presentation are out in the lobby. They're free to take. A lot of them are historical, like this one. We have two copies of that free. You're free to look through or take one as you wish. Um, and my father uh raised us on meat and cheese, ham and cheese omelets and bacon and eggs for breakfast and steaks, but we also he was a big hunter. So, he he hunted feeasants and ducks and geese. And I remember very distinctly as we were eating dinner the sound of clinking because we would spit out the lead shot. Some people remember that. Uh it would just it was just a matter of routine. If if you didn't swallow it, then out on the plate it went and clink clink clink. That was before the days of Herb Needleman. Herb was a um he started as a pediatrician. He became involved in epidemiology because he was concerned about lead poisoning in children. and he's one of my great heroes because of the epidemiology he and other scientists did in the 70s to finally get us to realize that lead was a a a threat. This was a desk like I had in my second grade. Uh and it had an inkwell in it and I filled it with mercury which was really easy to get at the local drugstore. It was cheap and it made me very popular because you could dip your quarters and dimes in there and it would provide a really nice luster finish on the quarters and dimes. And sometimes we would take a little bit of mercury and scatter it around on the tile floor and the beads would dance around and nobody thought anything of it. But ironically, years later, by the way, I talked to uh my dad about Jack because his views were completely opposite of Carlton Frederick's. He was telling me to eat 10 veggies and five fruits every single day. And it's like, what? Who does that? I would like my dad's steaks. And so I talked to my dad about it. and dad would say he's a muscleman, which was the the gym rat sort of um gym bro back in the day. And uh Carlton Frederick's is a doctor and that landed with me. So I um I just didn't think that much about nutrition for a long time. But in when I went into earth science, geoysics is my background. I ended up ironically in a company that had 34 water testing labs around the nation. And we ended up getting samples from mines which had lead and arsenic in the water, from chemical plants which dumped solvents in the river, and from poultry farms in the Chesapeake Bay drainage area because they had the problem of so much poop. What do what do they do with this concentrated poop? And it would get into the groundwater table and into the streams and go to the Chesapeake Bay and poison the fish and the crabs. And the fishermanmen would say, "Hey, you're destroying our livelihood." and the, you know, they would try to sue and the chicken farmers would say, "You're trying to destroy our livelihood." And you had industry against industry. I have to tell you that environmental epidemiology is depressing because every industry reacts the same way like they did with Herb Needleman. They will do anything to discredit your science, say you're fudging your data, that you're you're, you know, an alarmist or a bully or whatever it is that they say. and they will torture you throughout your life. And it's it's hard for you to come to grips with the idea that you're doing this as a passion project, maybe part of your career, but you're taking it on the chin because you were a pediatrician and we're tired of seeing kids with lead poisoning and they're running ads about how lead is healthy. They were running the tobacco industry playbook about 30 years before the tobacco industry wrote that playbook because every industry does this and the playbook is obvious. promote the product, promote fund your own science that conflicts with the science um that Herb Needleman is putting out and so on. So suppose you're me and you have uh suppose you're one of my friends and they get a PhD in physics u and they have an opportunity to go to NASA and I always have to tell them well if you go into space exploration you're going to be a rockstar and you're going to be the life of any party you attend but if you go into climate science industry is coming for you and they're going to convince half the nation that you're evil and a liar and you have some other kind of motivation and when you go to the party, people are going to bring the rage and you're going to have to deal with that. So, if you see this photo and you say, "Hey, that looks like Joanna Hoffman." You have very good eyes. You've seen the Steve Jobs movie, but that's not Joanna Hoffman. That's Kate Winslett. She got a Golden Globe for um her portrayal of Joanna Hoffman in the in a Steve Jobs movie. And we were just at Joanna's uh home three weeks ago for a 35-y year reunion of General Magic. And we're all teasing her that she was Kate. And the the reason that Joanna one reason that Joanna became such a rock star along with the others is because it's in Apple's financial interest to make her a rockstar. Whereas in climate science, it's in Exxon and Koch brothers interest to make you look like an idiot, like your science is illegitimate. As life wore on, I became aware of all my many risk factors. Um, if you're wondering why I have a hole in my head, uh, here's your partial answer. You're lucky I took this photo two weeks after the initial operation. And as I kept learning about more and more risk factors that I had when I was 42 years old, I had a croted ultrasound test that showed I had moderate atherosclerosis. And so I began to think, huh, maybe I should use a little bit of my environmental uh epidemiology background and see if I can make some sense out of all the noise that I'm seeing. My father was declining in his 60s. Um, my hero athletic father who was captain of his hockey team at Queens, he got high blood pressure, he got gout, and by the time he was 70, he had died of a heart attack. Whereas Jack decided to pull 70 boats for TV with 70 people in them to show how vigorous he was on his 70th birthday. He did that handcuffed and shackled at the ankles. That's Jack, that lower white dot you see leading those boats, pulling, swimming a mile, pulling those boats. It's just unbelievable that anybody could do that. But in the meantime, the doctors that my dad adored so much, uh, none of them made it out of their 70s, which I knew was just an anecdote, but it still was like, huh? Um, the one on the left, Blake Donaldson, these books are all out in the lobby. Blake Donaldson on the left was a carnivore doctor. The rest were low carb. Uh, but Jack was was um kept making the news because he was so vigorous until he was 96 years old. I mean, he wanted to swim. his wife stopped him but he wanted to swim from to Catalina Island from Los Angeles on his 90th birthday. So when I was in tech for many decades uh I saw big data keep changing the world and one of those cases was Google. There were many search engines when Google came out. And when these two graduate students tried to sell their search engine to Excite and Yahoo for $1 million, they all passed it by and said, "No, search is going to get to be too noisy when the when the internet gets big." But they had big data backgrounds. Um, and so, um, with Yahoo, their feeling was you're going to have to do human curation of the internet. Some of you may remember that that they had a directory and humans were curating the internet. But Google decided they were going to hire a lot of PhD scientists and combined them with engineers, kind of the thing that Dave likes to do. And they created this search engine and they just crushed everyone else by using their statistical methods. When someone from another field of epidemiology comes into nutrition, it is a shock. It causes your jaw just to drop. Adrian and I were just talking about this in the back room because the thing you hear over and over and over again is you can't uh infer causality from observational data. What? I don't think I had ever heard that before. And it's your job in environmental epidemiology to infer cause. Everyone expects it. You can't be Herb Needleman and say, "Well, I don't know if you know we need an RCT with lead. Can can you bring your kids in and we'll feed them paint chips?" Um, and there are these great books. There's a dozen great books. Adrian showed some of them on inferring causality from observational data. There UC Berkeley alone has uh over a dozen statisticians, scientists who list uh causal inference as part of their jobs. So when I came in, I was my professors told us they drilled into us, you don't be that person who tries to read thousands of scientific papers and thinks they know science after that. You be that person who deep does a deep dive on the on the papers that really matter that made a difference one way or the other to prove or disprove a hypothesis. And one of the first ones I came across was this very famous one still famous today from 1957 um from um um about fat in the diet. And there was a movie Fat Fiction that featured this paper front and center. One of the things I noticed with this paper is it there was only one very poor scan of it and it was on CrossFit's site and I was having trouble connecting the dots which country is which here and and some they they showed an alternative graph which had the same idea but they didn't have any notation at all. So I decided okay I'm going to scan this paper or I'm going to convert it to a searchable PDF and annotate this and make it public so anybody can access it and that means you guys. So the first thing if you have a environmental epidemiology background the first thing to jump out is the lead author Yakob Yurushami. was known as Yak in the day. And he um was a very famous professor of um of um um biological statistical biology at at UC Berkeley. He was known for torturing Richard Dah and um Bradford Hill, the two um people who were involved in the famous British smoking study that went 50 years. And because that study had inferred that lung cancer was causal or smoking was causal of lung cancer and um Radford Hill was very famous. This book which is out in the lobby went through 12 editions and was the medical statistical textbook for 50 years I think. Um but Yak uh denied that there was a causal link between smoking and lung cancer until the day he died in 1973, nine years after the surgeon general's report was out. So in character with Yak when he published this paper in 1957 that that has now become so famous, he led with this famous sixcountry graph. that includes England and Australia and Canada and so on that Anel Keys had displayed in 1953 at a hospital that showed a very strong correlation between fat in the diet, any fat in the diet and heart disease. And he had access to data from 22 countries. And when he plotted that, it looked, you know, the correlation was definitely not as strong. And the movie Fat Fiction claimed that it just became a scatteragramgram and there was no correlation whatsoever. But this is one of the reasons why I put this paper, you know, made it readable and publicly available on the internet is so that people could read it. A correlation of zero means no correlation. A correlation of one means a perfect correlation. And these numbers to me look fairly significant. And you notice that he even isolated animal fat and animal protein which having pretty strong correlation coefficients from vegetable fat and vegetable protein which had negative correlations meaning they were associated with reduced risk of heart disease and animal fat and animal protein was associated with higher. Um now at this point you're probably saying Dave who let this vegan in the room this is not going well. And um and they even noticed the negative correlation with carbohydrate, too. And to that, I'll say if I were to go down the hall or the the street and speak at the vegan conference, low-fat vegan conference, where they recommend you don't have avocados and nuts and olive oil and things like that, I would get the same side eye glances as I'm getting here. Um and the point is that we could learn they could learn a lot from you and hopefully um we can learn a lot from each other. So, um, if you go back and look at how an epidemiologist would look at this chart, um, how did this graph get where it is? Oh, um, the point of of his paper, the point of his entire paper was that protein had a stronger correlation than fat did. Uh, and you can see that this correlation is quite strong. So, but the point of the paper was he fudged his data. Anel Keys fudged his data. He he cherrypicked six countries when he had access to 22. Well, if you look at this from an epidemiological point of view, you the the thing about epidemiology is a well-characterized uh population with a large difference uh in effect size is what you're looking for. And you'll see here that the effect size difference between Japan, Finland, and USA was the highest. Finland's off the chart to the left, but they chose that as one of the the ones to be in there. You'll also notice that Netherlands was way off to the right, way further than France, but it had a very low heart attack rate. So, they chose that because the scatter is scientifically fascinating. It could be bad FAO data uh or it could be that they could learn something that from the data point that doesn't fit. You don't know unless you investigate and that's what they decided to do. And since Australia, Canada, and England, which he had on the original chart, were kind of in the center off the chart they went. So now we had five countries. How do you select the other two? Because they went to seven countries. Well, one of the things you're looking for is you want a good scientific team. And this is going to be an expensive study, so you better get countries that can fund it. So what they did is you'll see that Greece and Yugoslavia are not on this chart. They didn't have data for them, and that was important for blinding. So of the 16 cohorts, seven of them were blinded. They had no idea what the relationship was. They wrote a book. I have it here. It's out in the lobby. Uh it's the only team I've ever seen that published an entire book on their study. and you can read it. Um, but the the idea of their cohorts is they were looking for a well-c characterized cohort that had enough people. So, they were going to rural co cohorts who had eaten the same foods they'd eaten for decades and would for a couple decades more before getting invaded by McDonald's and so on. And they had to bring a team of doctors in every six months to measure their exposure because you couldn't expect these people to fill out a questionnaire. So they collected the food that they were eating and they sent them to the lab frozen and then they analyzed the chemistry and what did they find a chart um you probably won't like seeing which is after 50 years they published this paper uh about the saturated fat content of their diet and you'll notice that Japan had the lowest Finland had the highest and that when you multiplied you increased the amount of saturated fat in the diet by five, the heart attack death rate increased by nine. And you may say, wait a minute, there's no data that supports this. Well, I see it everywhere. In fact, uh the French epidemiologist Serge Renault was very famous for showing that in Britany in the north of France, they had four times the heart attack death rate and five times lower mortality than people did on the Riviera where they were eating fish and vegetables instead of meat and cheese. So on this team, I talked to um Henry Blackburn a lot. He's the guy who's 99 and a half. He's about to turn 100 in a month and he's still uh playing in his band. I calculated and had AI calculate the odds that three members of an 18 person scientific team would live past a h 100red and it blew AI's mind. AI said, you know, it's got to be one in 10 billion. One AI said it's one in a billion. I tried to calculate it and I got somewhere about less than one and a billion. And there are many members of the team that are still alive like um Alessandro. I'm thinking of interviewing him. He's 91. So moving on, this whole idea that uh that epidemiology cannot infer cause uh Science magazine wrote an article, published an article in 1995 saying epidemiology facesing has faced its limits. It doesn't have the large effect sizes anymore. They've chased down smoking and so on and it's creating these false positives that are scaring everyone. 28 and they listed 53 that were suspected false positives. 28 years later, a group of epidemiologists followed up on those 53 items to see uh which of them were false positives. And it turns out that big data gets better as time goes on because over the next 30 years from that when that paper was published, Harvard alone added 200,000 people to their studies. And 30 years, that's a lot of data. And the Framingham Heart study has been going on for 75 years. I'm the only one I think with camera rolling to tour their campus. It's on my site and interview the director of Framingham. There's 150 scientists and technicians involved in that. They bring their patients in uh every two um years and measure everything for seven hours on those patients. Bone density scans, glucose responses. This kind of data is data an environmental epidemiologist, by the way, we all trust that you're not eating lead. Uh would dream of. It's just you don't get that kind of data except in nutritional epidemiology. So even the Washington Post listed a century of medical milestones and they had the Framingham study as one of the 10 most profound medical milestones of the last century after infectious disease control, immunization, and vitamins. So here's um uh an example of the many things that the science article listed that were probably false positives. alcohol and breast cancer, tanning beds and melanoma. There were a lot of them that we now just completely accept as absolutely it was causal that epidemiology didn't get it wrong. And I didn't see any of the 53 things. Many of them are still indeterminate but pretty suspicious. Um so here's where we are. Here's where we were in the 60s when I began my journey. We had a TV star and a radio star and they were saying exactly opposite things. And here's where we are today. We have a group of stars who think who believe passionately that their diet is the one. You're all part of that. And down the street we have a group of people who believe passionately their diet is the one. So what is a consumer to do? I think you've heard this from everywhere. How you know for every doctor who believes one diet is the one, there is another doctor who believes the exact opposite diet is the one. So what are you going to do? Well, first of all, I think we ought to be humble about where we are in America because we are here on that chart where that red arrow is. Highest health expenditures, lowest uh life lived. The interesting thing is the food guides that have epidemiologists on their uh committees are enormously consistent. They all look the same. There's 114 of them that we were able to identify. I have a whole spreadsheet of it which I made public. And we interviewed uh food guide professionals from Switzerland, Japan, Norway, the US, and I forget all else uh who we did. They have visual food guides that are just like ours. Look, Japan has carbs at the base. their um obesity rate is only 5%. So what's going on? I'm going to skip that Yahoo slide. I did a an episode on the um Japanese lunch program. They have a dietitian in every school who teaches from the kids and designs the menus from their food guide. So what in the world is that slide doing there? Um, so you may wonder how in the world um, do I think the the initial title was how big data will revolutionize nutrition. How in the world do I think that's possible? I think it's possible because the nations who are leading us like Denmark who banned trans fats 15 years before us. They lead us in everything. They now have an action plan for plant-based foods. Doesn't mean it can't be keto. It can be fully keto. Um um and do I remember what this slide was supposed to say? It's my concluding slide. I should uh the uh I can't I can't read my show notes over there. Uh so I've been making things up as I go along. Um so um uh it reminds me it just reminds me this is one of my heroes, James Hansen. He um testified to Congress in 198 um six I think Carl Sean had testified the year before 19 uh 88 and in that time we had passed the clean air act the clean water act uh we had done all these wonderful things and after he gave that talk George HW Bush said people who are afraid we won't be able to control the greenhouse effect are underestimating the white house effect that's how I think about big data it gets better it gets irrefutable It's um it's led every country that I can think of to very high quality food guide like Uganda and everywhere else. They all have independent scientists. They all have statisticians. And so I believe that will happen in nutrition too. And I'm out of time. Thank you very much. Thank you so much for coming, Chris. Big round of applause. Let's prove worthy collaborative science conference.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: staDGGZJqbE (https://youtu.be/staDGGZJqbE) ===

Basically this wound care is a huge challenge because it is broken multiple care setting multiple doctors multiple comorbid conditions but the patient in the center is not given the uh hands-on guidance for self-care and every 3 minutes in America there is a limb lost and if that does not cause more uh of us to get more angry at the situation you see this data there are options active interventions that could be taken to improve to this chronic disease condition. If you forget anything that I told you, please remember one thing. In diabetic foot wounds, there is need for 56% greater protein intake. Our next speaker is a board-certified infectious disease physician, certified wounds wound specialist, diplomate of the American Board of Obesity Medicine, and associate professor of Mercer University School of Medicine. Please welcome Dr. Ravi Kamelli. >> [applause] >> Hi guys. Uh thank you for having me today. Thank you Dave. Uh do you guys know which is one of the con costliest complications of diabetes and that is least discussed about and I guess most of people think it's cardiac disease but is diabetic foot ulcers and I am Dr. Kamali. going to talk today about metabolically optimized wound care which a patient ccentric platform and I am in Atlanta and basically uh my Twitter x handle is wound physician and hashtag removing barriers to healing. So my conflicts of interest are nothing but uh uh working on building a comprehensive tele medicine based solution for obesity, metabolic health and infectious disease and these are the companies that I'm invested in but most of them are healthcare companies and um the platform that I use is colligomed.com and I I want to be the change that I want to see in the world. That's why I invest only in healthcare companies and try to make it happen for the patients that I serve. So quickly um this is a 40-year-old uh security guard who essentially had diabetes since 15 years and ended up with significant problems with the diabetic uh foot gangrine and uh changes in the foot. If you see there uh her sugars are high her creatinine is high. I saw her in 2023 ended up uh introducing low carb and helped her guide through this platform based approach and we were featured on the Guardian um uh article and she is one of the patients who was a survivor with the foot on yes it is deformed it is charcut foot but she has a foot she walks on it so we're going to talk about how to understand the scope of the problem metabolic health and wound healing and the key concepts that are there and understand the inflammation and immune response response and integrating metabolic health into wound care protocols. How collaboratively we we can change it and also what are the technological innovation the future directions and how we can health advocacy do it through health advocacy and the key takeaways platform based approach is what is needed for professionally directed patient involved whole person solution wherein we are preventing the patients from falling into the river and then pulling them out with stances and all those we are all medical doctors and medical professionals are in the endgame of medicine where the fat mass disease is causing significant problems and I deal mostly with the complications of the end endame of disease happening which is endorg organ damage and here we have a retrospective chart review that we did on the low carb approach to the patients that we are able to do it um and of these patients there were like 29 of them we reviewed and 11 of them were diabetics and of those 11 in the people who were compliant with the diabetes uh low carb approach were healing within in um 10 weeks. Whereas in a standard of care for diabetes is it has to heal by 50% in one month for it to go on to heal by 12 weeks. We did that in these 20 29 patients but in these 11 patients and nine of them who were very compliant. We did them with reduction of medication, improving their weight, improving their waist circumference. You can uh later uh get that QR code and see the poster and the review. And basically this wound care is a huge challenge because it is broken multiple care setting multiple doctors multiple comorbid conditions but the patient in the center is not given the uh hands on guidance for self-care and that's what I wanted to heal or improve and basically you need to know that there's a huge burden on wound care $ 33 billion of that diabetes is a huge problem and it is more recorded and 1.2 two every 1.2 2 seconds someone develops a diabetic foot ulcer and every 20 seconds there is an amputation and there is 34% lifetime risk in diabetics to develop diabetic foot ulcers and more than 50% of them get infected 20% of the diabetic foot ulcers result in amputation and 85% of the amputations that are caused by non-traumatic causes are due to diabetes and every 3 minutes in America there is a limb lost and if that does not cause more uh of us to get uh uh more angry at the situation. You see this data uh wherein diabetes is costlier uh when compared to cancer and also onethird of the direct costs of the diabetes are attributed to uh lower extremity uh problems and if you see cancer five-year mortality is 9% whereas all cancers it's it's only 31% whereas diabetic foot amputation is 50%. only lung cancer is higher than that. You have to understand that diabetic foot ulcer lowered amputation appear to be more than just the marker of poor health. They are independent risk factors for premature death. So we know that there's a huge problem with uh uh diabetic foot ulcer because there there happens to be a huge issue with neuropathy, vascularity, secondary infection leading to diabetic foot ulceration. Whereas the reason underlying chronicity of the wounds is because of uh nutrient deficiencies but also chronic inflammation sinence and genetic factors and surgery. There are options active interventions that could be taken to improve this chronic disease condition. And actively what happens in this acute phase is there is injury. There is release of damage associated molecular patterns and pathogen associated molecular patterns. netosis and ephroytosis happen and M1 macrofasages convert to M2 macrofasages and wounds go on to heal whereas in chronic wounds that conversion is lacking and we understand these four phases of healing injury coagulation inflammation migration and remodeling we're going to only talk about nutrition this would be a one and a half hour lecture if I talk about all the the crosses but you have to understand that metabolic syndrome is a huge problem where the wound gets stuck in the metabolic phase there is increased problems with more of collagen degradation products which is matrix metaloprotinasis and the inhibitors of the matrix metaloproinasis are reduced and there is increased TNF alpha mcp1 and matrix metaloproinase 9 which are found in higher um uh numbers in metabolic syndrome. Obviously in metabolic syndrome this is increased and that causes problem. Coming to diabetes, we all know about ages and rages and the problem with that is is huge and the complications in diabetes is because of uh neutrfil inefficient activity. When there is that there is a significant aspect also in di in infection aspect where when there is pH changes the staff orius infections are also increased. So we know about glycation and all these seven times fructose being high and by the way there is no such thing as a touch of diabetes. Everyone who has diabetes it runs the risk of serious complications. So what happens with infection in diabetes this was a study done in 1973 and we have to understand that once you have sugar it takes around 2 hours of postpon to affect u that ill effect is lasting around 5 hours. If there is somebody who is fasting for 36 hours the the fagocyitic activity increases and also you have to understand that when there is glycation the methile glyioxil forms even affecting the natural killer cells. So also the huge issue of this problem is reactive oxygen species where through TH7 activity there is increased reactive oxygen species and TGF beta activation causing the problem. So in infection there is increased risk of lung infections. There is increased risk of skin infections. Then this cycle continues leading to increased inflammation and also cytoine production, insulin resistance and hypoglycemia. And this causes significant problems with gut microbiome changes, host changes, innate immunity changes and and also active immune system changes that are causing and significantly these infections. I recently saw a patient with brookold area infection and she is uh she is pre-diabetic and that tells us that in 50% of the cases that individuals with diabetes this bug does not uh cannot be taken care of. So that happens in all these other conditions uh including mucor micosis that is very huge in diabetes outcome uh problems. So what happens? How do we detect malnutrition? Is the six criteria out of these six criteria if two are present then we call malnutrition. Then the next thing is what whe whether you see whether there is inflammation or not and that inflammation is is it moderate or marketked and that leads to chronic problems with acute or chronic changes. So in in when there is healing problem there is anabolism and catabolism. Obviously if there is catabolism the wounds don't don't go on to heal and there are different societies have come up with different criteria you identify the uh malnutrition then you empower the end the the professionals to go after that and create some quality indicators but sadly nobody talks about the root cause of this problem which is insulin resistance and also high prevalence of vitamin deficiency and we know that AD CK and all these are problem but we have to Understand that calorie restriction is a huge problem. If you calorie rest that that will impact on wound care and obviously with there is increased cortisol production. Everybody talks about replacing with carbohydrates which is wrong and insulin resistance that has to be addressed is not being addressed. So protein that is significant protein intake the real protein intake of high quality protein which is needed for all these uh nutrients and that will help with angioenesis collagen synthesis and also scaffolding and fibroblast formation. If you forget anything that I told you, please remember one thing. In diabetic foot wounds, there is need for 56% greater protein intake. That's one thing please remember. And insulin is needed. Obviously, insulin is needed for wound healing which regulates inflammation, promotes tissue regeneration, stimulates collagen synthesis andogensis that local insulin application is not much used. It's not much studied. So that is something that has to change. But in when there is insulin resistance, there is impaired immune system, delayed healing and scarring, the wounds get stuck in the inflammatory stage and the movement does not happen and that's a problem. Obviously, metabolic reprogramming happens and these these enzyatic activities change. So there's macrofase changes that are needed. Uh the M1 macrofasages have gone through M2 macrofasages. So and basically if you see these macrofase kind of respond to uh factors that are there inflammatory markers and then they they go on to do the job. So M1 to M2 macrofasages happening is huge and obviously in nutrient reprogramming is very much happening in uh in in ketogenic diet where there is better use of lipids and amino acids that helps with all the stages. there is a increased ATP needs in the wound that are met and tissue remodeling that happens better and this was a study done by Dom and Shannon and basically this was one of the thing that prompted me to look into more into wound caring and ketogenic diet where in ketones show reduction of reactive oxygen species and reducing inflammation and increasing the blood flow. So this was another study for from an infectious disease standpoint this bug is very bad okay mcoacterium ulcer and it creates something called as micoactone and in ketone present that's gone so that goes on to healing inflammation and oxidative stress is huge and that has to be addressed so in even omega-3 fatty acids improve and also you will see there is increased M1 to M2 macrofase changes epigenetic marker changes that happen and obviously there is increased disbiosis that is improved even skin derived skin substitute are are being used for this wound healing now. So how did I do this? We used a continuous remote nutritional integrated wound care platform wherein we are able to track the patient's wound provide continuous remote care and obviously use uh uh hightouch wherein people are this whole thing is AI integrated and we are doing more than lip service actionable steps using hightouch solution with diet versus disease we we just have to go throughwards hightouch solutions and we are able to take take the the patients are to take the pictures the pictures come to me and are my associates and they are able to give then I also I I track body composition testing too. So um final slides coming through the most important factor in wound healing equation is not bacteria bofilm perfusion and host factors all these are very important nutrition is the key and access to healthcare is a huge thing the future of healing will be genomics but the healing of the ulcer in a compromised host we'll need a real whole person approach to healing a whole in a person and point of care solutions help but we need uh platform based approaches in healing integrating people process and technology ology and medical professionalsdriven patient empowering solutions and obviously nature is um there there is rhythm in nature rivers blood vessels trees roots fruits music even the music notes have rhythm we humans don't recognize that what are we missing in healthcare is there a real option that we have to take real empowerment that we have to take care and deliver the solution that we need for the people that we are blessed to be taking care of thank you very >> [applause] >> And please reach out to me on Twitter or X or I'm on social media. I can help any questions. There will be a full uh one and a half hour session on this that I will be doing down the road hopefully. >> Great talk.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: W1oN58ArVzQ (https://youtu.be/W1oN58ArVzQ) ===

But again, behaviorally palatable to me is is a phrase I like to use. Can you do this without thinking this is obligatory? I'm in a monastery. I'm I'm I'm um reducing my pleasure or, you know, I I only have a certain amount of time to live. Why don't I enjoy it? Well, I think I do consider that. I mean, I do. And I think this helps me enjoy what is enjoyable to me. And not everybody's going to buy this story. Not everybody's going to buy into this uh philosophy, okay, or science even. They're not going to do it because it's not worth it to them. And I got it. I understand that. That that's fine. Um but you're right. As there's, you know, when I got my doctorate in health, we studied public health also. And so we have a responsibility with regard to public health to disseminate good information, helpful information, okay? And also to to point out some of the problems that are are current and are ubiquitous, okay? And I'm in the airport today, right? And I can't help it. And I see people and I just I don't see fat people. I see people that are sick. I see people as and I feel like saying, you know, you're going to die from this, okay? And I obviously I don't do it, but that's what I feel. I feel like, is it worth it? I mean I mean, can't you do something about it? I mean, maybe you can't. Okay? I'm not making a judgment, but Jesus. I mean, I don't get it. But that's just me. And I know it's just me and I know I'm a person in a smaller group than this bigger group, you know, both physically and popular in a population sense. >> Yeah. Yeah, it's just it's just what's changed. I >> Yeah, >> I had um I was traveling, this was in 2020 and it was our around the world trip and I remember at one point being in I think it was Singapore. Um no, not Singapore, but anyway, it was it was somewhere in the east. They had all of their, it was a, you know, fairly big import airport that had like a large food court and there were all these traditional Asian cuisines spread out through all these different restaurants, >> but there were two long lines to two different restaurants. You know where the story is going, right? Oh, >> yeah. [laughter] >> One of them was McDonald's, >> of course. >> The other was KFC. >> [laughter] >> And I felt and I was I was watching it in that moment and I was uh I had literally literally just gotten done doing an interview because we're doing around the world trip where I'm picking up these interviews that we're going to be using for our documentary. I had just gotten done talking to a physician in a hospital who was kind enough to give us an interview. we needed a translator for that uh physician and he was describing how diabetes is exploding there. Yeah. >> Right. >> And I and here I am. I'm in the food court afterwards and I'm like I can't help but feel sometimes I know this is going to sound totally negative. I can't help but feel sometimes like the US is kind of like the virus >> that's just kind of spreading. It's and and this isn't to say, you know, this isn't to say that I'm not pro- freedom. If you want to eat what you want to eat and that's your thing, >> okay, >> what I have a problem with is that um people get this kind of sense of helplessness, like there's just not a lot they can do about it. And like in the case of where I'm looking at that food court, I feel like if I'm family members of those people in the line, I'm going or we could go over here. It's not even it's not even whether it's low carb or not. A lot of these other cuisines are not necessarily low carb, but >> I guarantee they're healthier. How can I guarantee that? Because I've been living in the US my whole life [laughter] and I've traveled outside the US. I swear you could throw a dart out onto a globe and whatever country you land on, odds are their ingredients, their foods that they make are probably better for you than what we make. Yeah. Standard American diet >> has the name it has for good reason. >> Yeah. Oh, I >> No, I mean, and again, you don't want to be, you know, in my case, an old kagon and boy, things are terrible now and the world's falling apart. I mean, that's generational, too. The world's not falling apart anymore than it was 100 years ago. for those people who it was falling apart for then because of some other thing. Okay, that's generational. But um again empirically we we know the data shows they are suffering from diseases which are behaviorally induced and behaviorally reversible. And if you're in the field and I'm in the field, I feel responsible that at least I give the best information that I have and and make sure that I'm up on this stuff and that I know what I'm talking about and also that I'm objective and saying it is your choice, but let me just recommend, you know, that maybe you try this. It's not so bad. And the and again the return for your time and effort and money is I think a great investment because you know you're the the you're the entity you're the the the um deposition of your investments. You are the most valuable investment that you have and why not give it a shot? [laughter] >> I mean I don't know if there's a simpler way to put that >> there there really isn't. I mean it it's there's I get back to the habit aspect of it. You can build new habits. Trust in the momentum. It's the hardest in the f in the first couple attempts. >> Yeah. >> And then it might still be hard years later, but not like it was in the first couple attempts, >> but you get used to it being hard. >> Exactly. Yeah. That's [laughter] a good way of putting it, right? I'll give you a good example. Um, I I cannot eat fries again. >> Yeah. >> Ever. There are things that I can step off my diet and quote unquote cheat. Like, for example, I could have pizza. >> Yeah. >> But I could have pizza and I could leave it and just leave it alone, right? Um, I try to make a low carb version of it. So, for example, if I'm ordering, I try to get like a cauliflower pizza if I'm stepping off my diet somewhat so it's not >> too far off. >> I got you. But could I do that with fries? I can't because I treat fries like an alcoholic would treat alcoholism. Right. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Uh so the awareness that I have for the problem foods lead me to build the habit of they just don't exist to me. [laughter] Yes. Exactly. You could eat fries in front of me. They could look delicious. I am not going to have one single fry. It's just not it can't happen. Right. Yeah, >> but that's that discipline I feel like people don't believe they can take on. And that's part of where we got to come in. We've got to be able to say you really can though. You really can. >> That's what I think is another offshoot byproduct of this exercise that we're talking about is the discipline. You will quickly learn that you can do things that you didn't consider that you could and you can do them successfully and repeatedly. You learn discipline by doing this stuff. There's no question about it. Yeah. >> Okay. You have some skin in the game. Okay. When I first started in the in the business, people would ask me, you know, we I this is the program we're doing. This is the exercise program. They would say, "What should we eat?" And I would say, "This is down in the 70s and 80s even." I said, "Just don't eat crap. Everybody knew what I was talking about. >> Right. >> Right. That's all I had to give them. And they did it because they knew what I was talking about. But now they don't. They don't. You You're telling me this smoothie with all this fruit and stuff like that in it and is is crap? Yes, it is. And this this banana, you know, or this apple from the Garden of Eden, which got us that's the first carb problem we had in in history. But I mean, you know, this is maybe for you it may not be. Okay, that's that's a problem. So that's the education that that's what's necessary to tell people, you know, if you I if you have a bad knee, then running down that mountain after the billy goat is probably not for some other guy in Switzerland, the Matter Horn, great for him and he yodles and he's healthy. For you, it's not good. Okay, don't do it. I mean, you have to get across this logic. >> I I always the way I do it is I as I just start with we're talking, aren't we? Like you you're talking to me not because >> there isn't a problem. You're talking to me because there is a problem, >> right? >> There's a problem, >> right? >> You're you're you're wanting me to give you a magic bullet, >> something that, oh, this was an easy thing I had never thought of before. But odds are you're talking to me because it's helpful to you as it has been to many of my friends and family to this point, most of them to just hear the tough news. And my tough news is it's half not your fault, it's half your fault. >> Okay, >> that's I think it's a combination. I think that there's granted some ends of the spectrum, some number of people for which there's genetic components, there's environmental components, there's just no choice. There's another end of the spectrum where it's entirely choice. But I think in between you I do think the food environment is problematic. I think that we do have foods that are quite literally, as we just mentioned, designed >> for you to want to eat. >> However, you can't just remove the concept of choice entirely. >> Absolutely. Even in building these new habits like we're describing, just like I'm talking about fries, I'm going to forever be tempted by crispy delicious looking [laughter] fries. It's always going to be there, right? It's just I have built the habit such that it doesn't occur to me I'm not even going to allow for that possibility. I um I one of the things I learned from doing these experiments is here I am I plan a span of time let's say three weeks for an experiment and I meaning in a very restricted way that's related to the experiment but I find that I can hold to the things I've determined I was going to eat much easier than if I had a diet where I'm trying to stay off those foods. Why? Well, for one, there's a fixed amount of time. >> That's always helpful. Trial periods. >> And I say this to my family all the time. Give me 30 days. You could do anything for 30 days. Feel free to imagine how awesome it'll be on the 31st day for you to get off this, but let's do this for 30 days. I'll get your blood work on day zero, and I'll get your blood work again at 30 days, and you can find out what happens. Treat as an information finding exercise. Right. >> Yeah. But what's neat about when you're doing this is you get kind of extra like almost bonus discipline because you know it's temporary. You feel like, oh, >> I can hold out. >> Yeah, I [laughter] can hold out a bit longer. Yeah. >> Right. >> And that's that's really powerful to explore the possibility of not being connected to those problem foods. But I find also you discover for yourself that it was easier than you thought it would be. And that's what I was finding out for my experiments >> is, oh, I really am going to be able to stay off of XYZ that I thought >> because at that point you might have thought it was impossible. >> Right. Right. >> There's no way I can do that. >> Right. >> That's impossible. I mean, I have in my book and in my work with people, I have what I call a fiveweek metabolic makeover. >> You still do the exercises. It's explained in my book, but I this is what I do with people anyway. I do five week segments with my people, 10 sessions at a time because five weeks is behaviorally palatable. You can stick with it in the beginning. It's so productive that it's self um >> reinforcing. >> Yeah. You know, self-perpetuating. >> Okay. >> Yeah. >> And so, but once you do that five weeks, you pretty much know I you've changed your behavior. you can do it. You've seen the benefit and so and but people that's palatable. It's behavioral. I have a I've had a fiveweek metabolic makeover for 40some years. Give me five weeks. >> Yeah, that's all I want. >> And again, this gets back to the and this is why we're chatting. We're chatting right now because you're seeking to have this solution. Get serious with us, you know, make this happen. >> Yeah. And that's I have some challenge cases in my family that >> I'm thankful for things like the the pills and the injections because for them there's just not >> it's it's the lesser of evils. >> Yeah. It's I know that I couldn't talk them into a program like this. I couldn't talk them into a major nutrition change. >> They're just tough cases. >> Yeah. there's some that exist to which if there's something that can help mitigate it, then I'm happy enough for that to be there. But I really do think they're more the exception than the rule. A lot of pe I've watched in real time a lot of my family get transformed by going lower carb. And to be fair that it's because they're already insulin resistant. It's because diabetes runs rampant in my family. And so a lot of my stock speech is, you know, you might follow so and so on Instagram and they seem to be able to pound down carbs just fine. Something happens with many of us and has happened with much of the world where we become insulin resistant. >> Yeah. >> And at that point now you should have to care about the thing that insulin manages predominantly >> being glucose. >> Yeah. Therefore, to some degree, you may want to consider bringing down carbohydrates. >> There's a uh one of my favorite lines from um Ben Bigman is who I think I guess lift it from somebody else or at least Gary Tobs mentioned this is uh any weight loss diet is a low insulin diet. That's a good way of putting it. Yeah. So, you could get without going low carb, you could say restrict calories, do the Weight Watchers route or something like that. But there's just no getting around it. If you're if you've got high insulin in the morning, it's gonna keep you from losing weight because that's literally its job is to keep the weight

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: IY4eJUAbmUE (https://youtu.be/IY4eJUAbmUE) ===

I am slightly biased towards confirming that I'm not killing myself slowly. I know all of us want to hear a straightforward answer. Cholesterol is always evil. Cholesterol is never evil. You won't get that from me. And this is by far the most influential piece of seed oil research. Is it only affecting cardiovascular risk through LDL, high LDL? Well, no. Definitely no because PCSK9 is also influencing the coagulation cascade. It's also influencing your glucose metabolism. It's also influencing your the physiology of your arterial wall. A distinguished clinical researcher and internal medicine consultant with an MD from Mexico, data science training at Harvard and a PhD in physiology from from Oxford whose work in kegenic interventions and advanced clinical prediction tools is breaking new ground. Please welcome my very good friend Dr. Adrienne Sodamoda. [applause] [applause] Hi everyone and um thank you for being here. Thank you for making this possible and we are going to talk about medialization studies. Um it's slightly daunting because I don't usually hear before a hard stat methods class that everybody is super excited about. Uh so I I hope I hope this would meet the expectations. Um some relevant warnings before that. Um, I take all forms of conflicts of interest seriously and you should know who I am and how this may bias or surely biases my perspective on different things. I am an industry paid speaker. Um, just that in this case the industry is a university that pays me for teaching methods and mostly I am a taxfunded clinical researcher and clinician in a public hospital. I see patients privately twice a week and I haven't written books. I don't monetize my social media. Um and yeah, my finances are boring. Um the reason why we are skeptical when a politician speaks regardless of their party is the same reason why we trust an air pilot, regardless of their airline. And it's skin in the game. And you could say that I don't have skin in the game. I I I have 700 square meters of indothelium in the game. And of course, this perhaps is confirmation bias risk. I am slightly biased towards confirming that I'm not killing myself slowly. I follow a low carb diet which of course causes that phenotype you know well and I promote or prescribe a low carb diet not because I think it will cure everything but because the patients I serve very frequently have the characteristics that point out that they could benefit from a low carb diet. Now another warning is that if you are after straightforward simple answers abandon all hope. Um I am an internist and the way the American College of Physician explains what an internist is is that we are your doctor's doctors. Uh but a less biased assessment of who an internist is is do check Dr. Blum Fleckens. We get the reputation of being physiologically incapable of giving straightforward answers or making straightforward decisions. I am all about nuance and the word you will hear the most in this talk is nuance. I know all of us want to hear a straightforward answer. Cholesterol is always evil. Cholesterol is never evil. You won't get that from me. And Dave is very kind and builds lots of expectation. Uh but my residents have a different opinion. And this will be especially true today because you will see lots of arrows connecting dots. Now I made lots of promises. I said that I would provide an overview of MR methods and assumptions that uh we would review studies on cardiovascular disease using mandelian randomization that I would explain how they are different from randomized control trials and I also promised in social media that I was going to review this paper uh for this talk. So let me meet those premises right now and then we will elaborate on them. Mind randomization studies are optimistic instrumental variables. The core of the talk will explain each one of those words. They aren't lifelong randomized control trials. We wish they were. And they can teach us not to blame a hammer for the user's mistakes. That there is no such thing as a causal question that's at the same time interesting and easy to answer. And that evidence is context specific and it must be triangulated. Dave chose a topic that belongs to the third semester of a four semester learning path for doctoral students. and asked me to give it in 25 minutes. If you want to be and I I of course I'm biased. I teach methods but do learn more about causal inference. Um these are my recommendations for learning more about some of the background that I won't assume you already know but that's useful to truly understand what's going on. Now we need to talk about instrumental variables. And the name perhaps you will hear the most is George Davy Smith. He's a fantastic epidemiologist. You could say one of the top five epidemiologists alive today. And 23 years ago, 22 years ago, he published with professor Sha Ibrahim, who of course is also very relevant to this research, but is less vocal. George David Smith is a fantastic educator. He's a fantastic speaker and he goes around the world speaking about minton randomization. If you Google or if you put into YouTube George Smith, you will find like 20 lectures. I watched all of them for this talk. And uh do please do learn from the source. They come up with this method and all methods can be abused and misused and this doesn't say anything about the method. You can take a perfectly valid way of analyzing data to conclude that there is a huge ball that tastes okay. And this is not saying anything really about the method. There was an previous method named instrumental variables that if you think of them as a hammer. Then imagine what professor Ibrahim and and Smith did was that they gave a sharp edge to the hammer and they developed an axe and instead of you know u everybody using an axe for an axe reasonable purpose, people started trimming their nails or chopping onions with an axe. and they have spent two decades trying to educate people on how to not harm themselves with the axe. So that's why professor George Davis Smith is doing his best to educate everybody about how to use a very powerful tool and do watch this lecture from him. He he delivered this at at um UCL and the title deserves some attention. It's noodles because we have seen papers linking a genotype with noodle consumption. I have reviewed papers where a genotype was associated with coffee intake but not black tea but not other harm but not other warm drinks. And it's it's I mean really how a genotype can can influence that and it's no nulls because we don't see studies in which the null hypothesis is the one that gets published. So that's also a problem for research and nums skulls because people tend to do a poor job explaining the methods and all the assumptions that are needed for a mular randomization study. So do watch that. And part of as with any other powerful tool, you can use MR studies to show that your BMI changes your biological sex. This of course makes no sense. There's no way there's no biological way in which you your BMI will change or influence the sex you you were born with. And because there is this problem of misuse, Professor George Smith frequently also puts forward a success story for MR studies. his poster study, his success case for when MR studies do work involves something that's very relevant for us and for the world, which is that the studies he shows as successful and well carried out say that high cholesterol causes heart attacks. And he's of course an author in many of these papers and we should take those arguments seriously. He also wrote this very this editorial putting the good cases and the bad cases the good apples and the bad apples of material randomization and I also recommend it. Now we should be aware that a field an entire field in science can be unaware for a long time of the methods another field uses and of the assumptions and perception that this other tool has in another field. My favorite example of this is the time uh when the journal of the American Diabetes Association published a method to calculate the area under the curve and of course there was public outcry and people said you are arriving three centuries late to the invention of calculus and uh the journal received editorial saying come on this this This is embarrassing actually. Nobody in the editorial review board noticed that this is a three centuries old method exactly working as calculus. And this didn't stop hundreds of non-ironical citations. But what I what I am putting this example forward is that instrumental variables have been in economy for over a century. And it was developed by these two two researchers Philip Wright and his son Suil Wright. Philip was an economist. Su was a mathematician. And this is by far the most influential piece of seed oil research. We did end up talking about seed oils in the end. and he was interested in dissecting what influenced price and he noticed that some things were correlated that that price is also affected by supply and demand and he wanted to tease out that effect and his son actually draw mandelian randomization uh a century ago and you can think of instrumental variables as follows there's something you're interested in the risk of diabetes death the likelihood of buying a house or the likelihood of someone faulting on a loan And you have a hypothesis for what explains that thing. It could be sugar intake. It could be being a migrant. It could be something else. But you know there are confounders to that thing you are interested in. And in this case a very common confounder you should think of is the social determinance of health. This will be important later. So now you need an instrument that is influencing the thing you hypothesize explains the phenomenon you're interested in, but that it's independent from those confounders and that only affects the outcome you're interested in through the hypothesis you have. These two red arrows are very important. And George David Smith um is open about reinventing or or or making a a special case of instrumental variables. um in one of the many lectures uh he he gave he said we were faceplanted because I I had even taught a course on instrumental variables and I just didn't see that mular randomization is basically instrumental variables and when this person pointed out that's just instrumental variables he invited them to write a comment on that and it's basically the exact same structure but then he gave a very useful example. Um he said when he's trying to explain why he didn't say mular randomization was instrumental variables or is instrumental variables. He said that they all seemed hopeless to me because it's things like the distant people leave from a water hole and the idea that that can tells us anything about how the availability of water influences health. This was just so obviously confounded by other facts and I kind of forgot about them. So I think it's a good idea to to start as with any other example of methods, some instrumental variables are stronger than others. And in GDS's water example, you're interested in health outcomes. You hypothesize that water availability has something with it. And you realize that are confounders to these health outcomes. So you use the distance people leaves from a water source. And this is problematic because perhaps the the location of your house is linked with one of those confounders with income or perhaps the location from your house to the water source makes you walk longer and daily. So now you are protected by physical activity. So you see how he's right. This is a bad form of an instrumental variable. It can be confounded. it's not following the the red arrows you are seeing here. Let me give you perhaps a better example. And this was published a few months ago and researchers profited from the change in legislation in the UK in 1953. And what changed was that now people were able to buy more sugar. And what they found was that so this creates a spectrum. Some people were, you know, uh, in the womb before the law changed, during the change of the law, and after the change of the law. And now you need to show that these two things are linked, that people actually started consuming more sugar. And what you can do with this setup is that you can see if that changes the offspring's risk for diabetes. So to go back to our diagram, you know, you're interested in the children's risk for diabetes, mother's sugar intake. you know that are confounders but you use as an instrument if uh pregnancy occurred immediately before during or immediately after 1953 and you can say that this is better protected because British society was not drastically different in 1952 from 1954. So that that's that's that's the main idea. If we were to imagine a mean deal randomization case for this same example, what we would use as instrument is perhaps a gene influencing a mother's sugar response perhaps some a gene in expressed in taste buds for example a gene that produces a protein that creates an exaggerated or or more intense reaction when exposed to sugar. So you can assume okay maybe that increases the mother's uh proclivity for sugar sugar uh consumption and then you can use if someone inherited that version of the gene and see if the persons with the people with those uh versions have a higher risk. It's the same structure. In our case we are interested in cardiovascular risk. The hypothesis is that LDL raises cardiovascular risk. So we can look at the genes that influence LDL to see if this is the case. Now George Smith uses this exact same structure when teaching. This is another one of great great lecture at at the mighty broad institute. And here is where open your ears, open your mind. This is the most important point we have to make about modular randomization which is what George David Smith literally calls the fundamental assumption of MR studies. And this assumption is the gene environment equivalence assumption. I know this sounds like the title of a Big Bang Theory episode, but the gene environment equivalence assumption basically says that the effect of the gene has the same magnitude as the effect of the exposure that the effect of the gene on PCSK9 has the same size as having high LDL. In professor George Smith's words, if you want to make this interpretation about a modifiable exposure, in this case LDL, think about it and think about it as a target for modification, you need to make the fundamental assumption of MR, which is that modifying the exposure through other means, modifying the exposure will have the same effect on the outcome. For example, for LDL cholesterol, this gene environment equivalence assumption would say that it doesn't matter if the change in cholesterol came through less sausage consumption or taking a lipid lowering drug. If you ask me, it's a big assumption. It's an optimistic assumption. Doesn't mean it's wrong. It's just optimistic. Think about, and there's another important caveat for us here. These genetic varants influence now stop thinking about LDL think of BMI through the mechanisms related to how the BMI distribution is represented in the population. And this is crucial for us. Why? Because basically this assumption is treating equally if your high LDL came through insulin resistance or through very different physiological contexts. So what I am trying to tell you is that MR studies are not about LMHRs basically and the gene variant a good ch a wellchosen gene variant has to do with why high LDL has that distribution in the population mandular randomization is more about populations than anything else and LMHRs you know uh you have heard me say that Dave Feldman discovered unicorns and the recipe for unicorns when we looked for how many people met the criteria in the entire history of NHANES lipid panels we found three of them and we don't know if they have something else so these people have been misrepresented or underrepresented in the popular in the data sets available now a very good example comes from the paper I promised I would review in which they are analyzing lifespan and the most important point here is that when this author is George among them found that Apo B had opposite effects in the univariate analysis versus the multivariate analysis. In the univariate it APOB and LDL go to the same side of the of the line of the risk but in the multivariable they have opposite directions. And to explain this they see something that's useful to make this point. LDL particles tends to be depleted in cholesterol when LDL particles are overproduced. This is the scenario approximated by the multivariable model we proposed. By contrast, decreased LDL clearance via the LDL pathway are is characterized by high LDL that are cholesterol enriched. The point I'm trying to make here is that these lipoprotein dynamics they are describing here are very different from the lipoproin dynamics that LMHRs have. We know these context is not approximated by these models. And this is why the result the estimate you get from an MR study tells you the population effect and it may not be representative of a sub population with that particular with that particular case. Now there's another problem. We know that even the same level of exposure has different risk implications in in FH studies. I mean we know that if you compare monogenic FH polygenic FH no FH but with the same LDL level risk profiles are very different. So this gene environment assumption again it's optimistic. We know that for the same level of high LDL risk can be totally different if you have a CAC score of zero than if you don't. So again, it's it's it's an assumption that in some cases holds, but in some others don't. And the other problem you could say is that remember, you should only influence your outcome through the exposure you are interested in. In other words, a gene should only affect cardiovascular risk through high LDL. And let's take for example PCSK9. P is PCSK9 influencing your LDL concentration for sure. Make no mistake, yes. Is it only affecting cardiovascular risk through LDL, high LDL? Well, no. Definitely no. Because PCSK9 is also influencing the coagulation cascade is also influencing your glucose metabolism. It's also influencing your the physiology of your arterial wall. And this is true. I mean, this is the truth in physiology. Everything is connected. This is another optimistic assumption in physiological phenomenon because everything is connected. And there is an additional point that in professor Smith's own words, it's particularly problematic if there's correlated pleotropy which is that the genotype influences something before that at the same time influences the outcome. So to give you an example and this is problematic because this would give you perfect correlation between the effects of the genotype and the intermediate variable. Imagine this is CVD risk. We are interested in CVD risk. The hypothesis is that high LDL influences it. We know there are confounders. We found a genotype for it. But there is insulin resistance in the middle of high LDL. insulin resistance causes both high LDL and affects CVD risk. So this scenario is actually very likely. It's actually I mean it's it's frequent. I'm not saying this happens in all MR studies that have said that high cholesterol is problematic, but this is certainly not implausible. Now the other problem is that confounders shouldn't be associated with genotype. And a very close example is that genotypes are influenced are influenced by a lot. Migration is one of them for example. And if you have uh Asian genotype that was linked with noodle consumption, well perhaps it only means that your family is Asian and you live in the UK. However, it doesn't mean the same thing in Asia. In Mexico, those who inherited European ancestry have better healthcare access, have better opportunities at education. And the same genotype doesn't mean the same, doesn't mean at all the same in Spain, for example. And this is named population certification. And Professor Smith recognizes this is one of the threats to the validity of MR. There are changes to try to to solve these problems uh researchers know exist. And this is why I will spend briefly uh explaining why they are not randomized control trials. This is not the only problem. Miguel man is uh another top epidemiologist at Harvard and he has this fantastic piece on does obesity short on life and do read it. It's about observational studies. In in essence, MR studies are observational studies. And what he says is that the effects of exposures that are the result of complex biological processes such as high BMI, high LDL, your CD4 count are mixed exposures. There are multiple ways to arrive at high BMI. In a randomized control trial, we don't have multiple versions of the same treatment. We don't have the pill version, the injection version, the syrup version. That we don't have that in a randomized control trial. But in mandela randomization, we do. And professor me makes this point. There are multiple ways to make your your high LDL or your high BMI. And the assumption may be valid for BMI being high due to your diet, but may not be valid, of course, if your BMI is low because you chopped your leg. So it's the gene environment assumption lets us see when it is reasonable and when it is not to make such an assumption. Now they are also not randomized control trials because randomization occurred at a occurred before inclusion criteria. And this this really matters because in a randomized control trial you make your inclusion criteria and then you randomize. But here is the other way around. But more than that, it's not clear when you apply the inclusion criteria. And what Professor Miguel Nans and his group have been working on is on making the case on, okay, this is really not a randomized control trial because at the same time, we're interested in a time varying exposure. Maybe you had low LDL and after your 50s you have high LDL. Or maybe you were an obese kid like myself, but now you're a lean person. When would you apply those inclusion criteria? Would that give you different results? Sure it does. If you have the same data set and have different inclusion criteria with the same MR method, you would get different results. So no, they are not lifelong RCTs with perfect aerance. What can we learn from them? That causal inference is tough. That's it. It's tough. It's hard to get answers. You won't get straightforward answers. That maybe we're chasing poorly formulated questions. to be honest. Perhaps you all remember this. Um, back home there's something like that and fuel goes there. There is a heat device there and it's surrounded by oxygen. But my house is not on fire. So, does oxygen causes fires? What about platelets? Do platelets cause thrombosis? Well, yeah. But I mean always is someone with 600,000 platelets twice the risk of clotting as someone with 300,000 platelets? No. Why? Because what causes thrombosis is the context, not the platelets count. It's the context. Do guns kill people? Well, the gun could be empty. Well, okay. Bullets kill people. Yeah, but bullets could be in a box. Okay, armed people with killing intentions kill people. They could have bad aim. You know, like the point I'm trying to make is that frequently what we mean by cause is a very specific interaction between two or more causal factors. It's fruitless to debate about questions like this. The cause of cardiovascular disease. Well, is D the largest contributor, the most prevalent, the one we should focus because it's the one that would get us more buck for our money? Is cause necessary cost, sufficient cost, exacerbating cost? Is CVD? You know, there's lots of questions and to be honest, my patients don't care. My patients care about am I at risk? What should I do? My individual case, not the population's case. My patients don't come to my office because I published a paper. They come because their sister got better. So it's it's it's really fruitless. I'm telling everyone who would listen and this is from one of the authors of the books I recommended. I'm telling anyone who will listen that if we are very careful and try very hard we might not completely delude ourselves. Deciding whether a key factor influences a sclerosis disease GDS's words is not going to be advanced by conventional methods. Evidence must be triangulated. I know we like oversimplified mechanistic statements. Nuanced mechanistic statements are less popular. But this is the way in this paper. And just to make the final point, researchers came up with a question on who really invented instrumental variables, the father of or the son? Who came up with the idea? And what they conclude is that appendix B was definitely written by Philip Wright. Who thought of it first? We will never know because think about it, how many phrases you share with your parents or with the people you interact with. We don't inherit only genes from our parents. We inherit the context they built or trauma they built. We inherit the their their social conditions. We genes could be a marker for something non-getic we inherited. I think we don't have a couple time for questions, but thanks so much. Write the questions. [applause] Big round of applause.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: uGP__VZiR30 (https://youtu.be/uGP__VZiR30) ===

incredibly powerful policy. I would say it's the single most powerful influencer on what Americans think is healthy and what we eat. It's like trying to reproduce a recipe and you have three times the number of ingredients, there is no way you're going to get the same result. And here's what I found. I went through all the major clinical trials list and and I found that many, if not most of the trials they used did not have statistically significant results, but they said that they did. Our next speaker is a very renowned science journalist, best-selling author, and founder of the Nutrition Coalition, whose groundbreaking work has reshaped our understanding of dietary fat. Please welcome Nina Teicholz. >> [applause] >> Thank you, Dave, and thank you all for being here and hello. How great is it to be here today? Uh with so many great talks. Um as usual, I haven't rehearsed this talk, so I have no idea if it's uh will get under under the time limit, but here we go. Um I'm here to talk about the US Dietary Guidelines, my favorite topic. Um why they matter and what is the latest news, and there is news to share. So, my disclosures, I don't receive any money and from industry and never have. Um so, you all know this is the food pyramid. This is basically our dietary guidelines. Uh and so, you can see the big bottom slab of bread and grains and um and then there's fats and oils, which are up in the teeny tiny tip. And there's MyPlate now, which is like a kindergarten version of this. Um Why are the Dietary Guidelines important? Okay, so this is a chart you'll just have to take a picture of it and peruse it for a while, but it shows the Dietary Guidelines are required by law to be followed by every USDA feeding program. Sorry, every federal program that we have must follow Dietary Guidelines. So, that means the military, that means K-12 education, that means uh all the school lunches, feeding programs for the elderly, women and infant children food baskets, and all those populations have gotten more sick over since the guidelines were launched in 1980. But, the guidelines are also downloaded as the de facto gold standard by all the health professions. So, the American Medical Association, the American Diabetes Association, the guidelines is like their gospel. So, it's incredibly powerful policy. I would say it's the single most powerful influencer on what Americans think is healthy and what we eat. And a healthy dietary pattern, as you all know cuz you were probably once on it, is fruits, grains, vegetables, low-fat, non-fat dairy, protein foods, which includes um an increasing amount of non-animal foods in there, and then a 10% limit on saturated fats as um as a percentage of total calories. And I'm sure many of you have seen this chart, which shows how well our Dietary Guidelines have done at preventing obesity in America. Um and obesity has gone down a little bit in recent years, and that's I think mainly due to the GLP-1 impact, but it's still uh you know, all chronic diseases have risen uh since the guidelines were launched. The common argument is that Americans don't follow the guidelines. If only we could follow them better, we would be healthier. And that is what our expert nutrition class tells us. But, this is the best available government data that we have on food availability. There's a similar graph for consumption, looks exactly the same. We have increased fruits and vegetables 20 to 35%. Grains are up. Vegetable oils up by almost 90%. Those are all the blue lines. We have eaten more of what we've been told to eat more of, and all the red lines are the things we've been told to reduce, and we have. Whole milk, red meat, eggs, animal fats, butter, those have all declined. This is meat particularly. You can see red meat has gone down 28%. Eggs are down and an increase in uh poultry. We eat much more chicken and uh mainly chicken now. So, we can also see this in terms of macronutrients. This is also the best available data on this subject. Carbs up by 30%, fats down by 25%, saturated fat down by 17%. So, we America, we have done a good job of following our guidelines. How What do they recommend that is not particularly advisable, however? Six servings of grains a day, including three servings of refined grains, which I'll explain later why we still have that in there. Uh oops, sorry. Um 10% up to 10% of calories as sugar and 5 and 1/2 teaspoons at least of industrial oils, which they actually specify as soybean oil for all Americans two and up. Altogether, when they calculate out the dietary patterns, uh this is the macronutrient content. So, 52 to 56% carbohydrates as a percentage of total calories. That has actually gone up in recent years. So, they are increasing the amount of carbohydrates that Americans should eat. And note that even though we're told the low-fat diet is no longer recommended and those words are no longer used, the diet is de facto low-fat. 31, 32% of calories is well within the range of the low-fat diet that has been studied in the scientific literature. So, they ditched the name, which was getting a bad reputation, but they kept the low-fat diet. So, how are they out of step with the science? Much of this will be no surprise to you. Unsaturated fats, which is what I have obsessed about most in my life. Um I want to just give you a little history of saturated fats. If you want to take down this paper, I wrote a little short history that is um now in the peer-reviewed that will um if you just want to give somebody doesn't understand saturated fats and you want to say, "Here's what happened." Because it covers the science and the politics, uh which I think are important for people to understand this issue. Just to go over it briefly, here's a timeline. Ancel Keys comes up with the diet-heart hypothesis in the 1950s, which says that saturated fats and dietary cholesterol cause heart disease are the most likely cause of heart disease. Then, there were no clinical trials when he said that. >> [laughter] >> Um there were clinical trials after uh the diet-heart hypothesis came in. I There's a data point in here I should have put, which is in in 1961, the American Heart Association comes out with the first official policy recommending Ancel Keys's uh idea, and that's the beginning of our advice, really the beginning of any advice anywhere in the world telling people to cut back on saturated fat and cholesterol to fight heart disease. So, then after that policy was published, there were these core clinical trials on tens of thousands of people all over the world. Then we go forward to Gary's book, 2007. Uh and after that came out, in which he discussed some of those core trials, which had largely just been suppressed, forgotten, ignored. After his book came out, the first review of those core trials came out in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition. Then my book, which really focused on saturated fat as a central theme. There are now more than 25 systematic reviews and meta-analyses that exist that went back and looked at those original core trials, and they have all concluded that saturated fats have no effect on cardiovascular total mortality and little to no effect on heart disease. And I call this period kind of the renaissance in thinking about saturated fat, which is scientists all over the world have reexamined the data that the core data on saturated fats and found that evidence just isn't there. I For this cover article I did in the BMJ in 2015, I found that no advisory committee had ever directly reviewed those core trials on saturated fats. And they did review some of the systematic reviews, but not in a rigorous way. So, they've never looked at the data. Um if you want to find those systematic reviews, you can go on the Nutrition Coalition website, click on the issue, click on science is not settled. It doesn't mean to be hidden, but it's just a little complicated. So, that's how you can see the list of systematic reviews if you're interested. Um and this is probably the most important paper that's ever come out reviewing the core trials on saturated fat. The reason it's important uh is well, let me just first say the conclusion. The conclusion is there's no robust evidence that current population-wide arbitrary limits on saturated fat prevent cardiovascular disease or reduce mortality. And the reason this paper is important is it includes four people who used to be on the Dietary Guideline Advisory Committee. They're basically saying we got it wrong. It's also important because it's in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, an incredibly prestigious journal and very important for cardiologists, and it was chosen as a top article of the year by the editor-in-chief. However, for all that evidence, when you get to the Dietary Guideline process, they first of all, remember they haven't looked at the core trials, and then what this is their 2020 review on saturated fats. Just look at this chart. This is from a paper that I did with some uh co-authors. This is the percentage of the studies that they have cited that do not support the conclusion that saturated fats cause heart disease. So, they are that is their own data. And yet, what do they conclude? The evidence against saturated fats is strong. So, that's what's going on at the uh the dietary guideline level. So, just to go back to this paper because in the paper, I cite data from a FOIA I got, Freedom of Information Act request. So, this is the vice chairman of that committee, and she's saying there's no magic or data for the 10% or 7% number that had been used previously, referring to the cap on saturated fat. No data. This is in an email she wrote to her colleagues. Okay, on dietary cholesterol, insufficient evidence to cap dietary cholesterol, says the American Heart Association, then says the US dietary guidelines in 2015, then again in 2020, insufficient evidence to link dietary cholesterol with your blood cholesterol. However, here's [snorts] the dietary guidelines. US recommended dietary patterns are lower in cholesterol. So, if Americans are confused, it's because it's confusing and contradictory. Who is working to try to make the guidelines better? Well, interestingly, one of the longest-time advocates in Washington has been Atkins, um now rebranded, but they have had passionate people trying to get the low-carbohydrate diet recognized. It is interestingly not nutrition experts. They're not refereeing their own field because, you know, what you might expect, fear of losing grants, fear of being excommunicated from their professional communities. Um it's not the USDA, obviously, large sclerotic bureaucracy, and they're not going to change. Um so, the only group out there has been my group, the Nutrition Coalition. And um so, >> [laughter] >> I don't know what to say about that. We're not very popular. Um there has been some criticism criticism of the guidelines over the years. These are what I consider to be the two most important papers going back um before my cover story in the BMJ. One of them is the lead author is Adele Hite. I don't know, probably some of you know her. Um but these were two serious papers that challenged the evidence in the guidelines. And then there's my cover story, which was uh really a huge ordeal for me because um there was the biggest ever retraction effort like in recent history. But it found that there's a minuscule amount of rigorous data supporting our current dietary recommendations. That was shocking. Um one of the things we did at the Nutrition Coalition was to get a National Academy of Sciences report. That's what you need in order to change policy is to get the National Academies to look at it, and they came out basically saying the methodology is lacking. It's not up to standard. It's not rigorous. Uh this was in 2017. They made 11 recommendations to the USDA. If you want to find them, this is where you can find them. Uh and then we got another uh these are two reports, but it was one allocation. Both of these reports uh had a $1 million allocation dollar from Congress. Um so, that's $2 million altogether. These reports were a follow-up to see like had USDA done what it was supposed to do to increase the rigor of the guidelines, and it found the USDA had not fully implemented even one of these recommendations. This is another paper I'm not going to go into, but I think it is probably the most important critical look at the dietary guidelines. Again, former dietary guideline committee members, um I'm on this paper. I wrote about it for my Substack. If you go to Substack, you can read my work on this. It's called Unsettled Science, and this just takes it apart for you so that you can understand it more easily. And this was the USDA HHS official reaction to that paper. Um again, that paper is I consider a very serious important paper. It's published in a journal of the National Academy of Sciences, and it really is So, that's a big deal. You can't ignore that. This was the USDA HHS official response to our paper. We are misinfor- misinformation. Um this is an amazing paper that the Nutrition Coalition funded that just came out, basically where they tried to reproduce the uh the reviews, some of the key reviews in the dietary guidelines, and um we got top methodologists to do this paper, and their findings were the systematic reviews are of critically low quality and subpar. And attempts to reproduce the literature search is which is the first step in a systematic review. You just go out looking for relevant scientific papers. They found three times more studies, these methodologists, compared to what the USDA found. So, you can't even begin to reproduce these these systematic reviews that are supposed to be the underpinning of our national policy. It's like trying to reproduce a recipe, and you have three times the number of ingredients. There is no way you're going to get the same result. So, that means we have a reproducibility crisis in the guidelines. So, this is the most recent scientific report that is supposed to inform our next guidelines. Our next guidelines will last 2025 to 2030. Okay, that's a long time. This is the committee. This is one of the people on the committee. Maybe some of you know him, Christopher Gardner. He is his entire fund center at Stanford was funded by Beyond Meat. And by the way, n- >> [laughter] >> the whole committee Oh, if you want to read more about him and his amazing long list of conflicts of interest, also on my Substack is that piece of investigative work I did. Um the US Right to Know, which is a really great public interest group, they found that nearly half of this dietary guideline committee had a conflict of interest. When we did a This is a not a published paper, a peer-reviewed paper. When we did a peer-reviewed paper on the previous committee, we found 95% of them had a conflict of interest with food or pharma, and over half the committee had 30 such conflicts or more. So, what are the proposed changes that that this new committee suggests? One is reduce red and processed meats for all Americans. So, you might think like, well, the guidelines already reduced red and processed meats. And that's true because they tell people to select lean meats because they of the cap on saturated fats. But they have not specifically said reduce red and processed meats until now or until this proposed uh recommendation. Also, cut all animal foods, meat, poultry, and eggs by three to three and a half to four ounces equivalents per week for people eating 2,200 calories or more. Um and inst- Oh, sorry, I should just mention, and instead they suggest eating peas and beans and lentils instead. Because as we just learned from Jamie, they're such excellent sources of protein. Um these changes, I think as you all know, are likely to worsen chronic disease. Plant-based proteins are not as complete as those from animals. They can't be used by the body for your muscle or other functioning. They also pack a hefty load of carbohydrates uh for the same amount of protein. So, it's a less healthy option for people with metabolic conditions. And I don't know if you know this, but even if you follow the dietary guidelines perfectly, you will not meet your goals for vitamins D, E, folate, choline, and iron. And with further reductions in animal foods, they would lead to further shortfalls in vitamins D and E. So, um these are some USDA-approved foods and drinks, and you might think, what are these highly processed refined grains doing in the guidelines? But as you remember, the guidelines approve of refined grains, three servings a day. And this scientific committee said we do not plan to reduce refined grains. It was something of a little stir in the committee meeting. And that's because, as the committee chair explained, if we reduced refined grains, there will be greater nutritional inadequacies. And that's because refined, but not whole grains, are enriched and fortified with with vitamins like B vitamin and iron. So, we are relying on those enriched and fortified refined grains to get the nutrients that we need, which are um synthetic, are not as well absorbed by many people, uh and, you know, come in refined grains rather than in whole natural foods. So, this committee also used computer modeling for evidence. Okay, I'm showing you this pyramid of evidence, which many of you will have seen, clinical trials at the towards the top. Computer modeling is not on this pyramid because computer modeling is too low even to consider. It's just hypothetical modeling. So, here's the computer modeling they did for their evidence. They made no distinction between a tomato, 5 g of carbs, or and a sweet potato, 27 g of carbs. Both were part of the red and yellow vegetable category, and that was all lumped together. They did not control for portion size. They did not include mixed dishes, even though those are a major source of calories for Americans. And they made hundreds of assumptions in this model in this model like, you know, they they assumed that sat saturated fat and cholesterol bad for you, but there's no way to know because there's no publication of the assumptions they used or anything about their database. And they made a huge number of simulations. So, it's basically a black box this data. So, did they consider the low-carb diet? And And this is like an ongoing thing because since 2015, this is an email I discovered in 2015 where Frank Hu, a Harvard professor, pipes up to his committee members and says, "I think we should study low-carb diets." And the committee the HHS and USDA staff say, "No, no, no, we're not doing that." Or "We have some results, but we're not publishing them in the main part of the report." And he says, "I'm wondering if we should have a separate section on low-carb diets rather than burying it." Um so, there's really been I would say a a kind of suppression of the science on low-carbohydrate diets that's been going on for quite a while. Uh the committee after this one in 2020, they did consider low-carbohydrate diets and they did systematic reviews, but they couldn't find any studies on them. Even though one of the committee members was a lead author on one of those studies. So, this time around they considered a low-carb diet, but they did it as computer modeling. So, don't look at the clinical trials. Don't look at the actual evidence. Let's model it on a computer. So, they did that. They removed carbohydrates from the diet and then they said, "Oh my gosh, nutrition adequacy has plummeted on this diet." And why is that? Because they didn't replace those calories with anything else. So, >> [clears throat] >> there they go. [gasps] Um Here's some other highlights. I did watch all the committee hearing meetings because it's such a joy. And um they said the people who questioned the healthfulness of seed oils were conspiracists. Uh one of the members said, "Butter is not back." Um they talked repeatedly about the focus on health equity, cultural diversity. However, most of their systematic review data contains data only on uh white middle-class people. Oops. Um And I'll just tell you a final thing, which is that the committee meetings are truly like Orwellian weird in that they like they call water a nutrient-dense food. And then they'll say, uh these nutrient-poor foods, meat and eggs. And then they'll say, and they all congratulate each other like it's this preschool class. They're like, "Such a great job. We're doing such a great job. Such good work." And they do acknowledge that there is like this obesity diabetes crisis raging outside, but they really feel like if only we can do a better job of nudging people towards the dietary guidelines, we will be more successful. So, if you want to read more about this report or any of the things that I've just discussed about this uh these new proposals, you can go and read it here again on Substack. And this is another piece that I did where I looked at all the data. So, I looked at all the key systematic reviews that they used to show that the dietary patterns show that the dietary patterns prevent diabetes diabetes, heart disease, and obesity. And here's what I found. So, I went through all the major clinical trials listed in the three systematic review areas. And and I found that many, if not most of the trials they they used did not have statistically significant results, but they said that they did. Some were conducted by animal rights groups like PCRM. And they listed many observational studies as clinical trials. They were not clinical trials. They were follow-up trials. So, in all, here's the total number of clinical trials that support their claims. 0% of the trials support the claim that the guidelines could prevent heart disease. 29% support sort of supports the idea that they could prevent obesity at 8% for type 2 diabetes. So, in all, it's just 17% of their trials. So, there's um there's still a minuscule amount of rigorous evidence to support our dietary recommendations. So, what happens next? HHS and USDA are going to decide which of these recommendations to accept or reject. The comment period, if you want to submit a comment, ends on Monday. And I urge you to submit a comment if you like. Um then they write the new dietary guidelines with or without any recommendation that they might accept. The fed By law, they're required to public to issue a new dietary guidelines, but they do not They are not required to disseminate them. They can just put them on a website and not say anything about it. Um And then the next step will be to start a new dietary guidelines. And the And you know, the leadership for the dietary guidelines oscillates between USDA and HHS. So, this coming up version will edition will be led by USDA and they will start on that work. And there's some I think evidence to suggest that there's a possibility of start issuing updates to the guidelines even before 2030, which would be great. It would be nice to have some better more evidence-based recommendations and not have to wait until 2030. And these are the people in charge. This is where our future lies with these two folks. I have to say I have a lot of optimism about change right now. I know I'm hopelessly naive, but um I I think that there's a lot of energy for change. I mean, obviously, whether you like it or not, things are changing at a wild pace in Washington. And I know that that that energy is also with these two secretary nominees. I expect them both to be confirmed. And um yeah, I'm I'm just I'm thrilled about the possibility for change. I've been working like Day Feldman like for a decade in this area and I've had many I mean, even years of really low points feeling like I've wasted my life and it's all for nothing. And this is just I think a real moment of hope. So, and I hope that um you will all be with me along for that ride. Thank you. >> [applause] >> Thanks. We do have a few minutes if anybody wants to ask questions. Oh, here we go. Yeah, yeah, good question. Have I heard anything about moving the dietary guidelines outside of the USDA? There is an inherent conflict of interest that has been recognized since the start in having them at USDA. It is an agency that is supposed to promote the food industry while simultaneously telling you to cut back on certain foods and not others. That's an inherent problem. People do talk about it. They talk about moving it elsewhere. I think it is not very politically viable to do that. It would require an act of Congress and I think it would just be hard to do. But anything is possible these days. Any other questions? Oh, over here. Eric Wissmann. Thank you for your work and your talk. Thank you. Why do we have a dietary guideline? That best I can recall when I was a kid, we didn't have one. And when you say an act of Congress, that just means changing a law. Well, you try to change a law. >> [laughter] >> It's not easy. And that's why we're seeing so many executive orders because getting something through Congress is much harder. But yes, I mean, the US was the first country to have dietary guidelines. And it is an example, I think, of government overreach, especially when you get it horribly wrong and government institutions are uniquely unable to change. So, >> [applause] >> I mean, any large bureaucracy has a lot of trouble. They it's almost inimical to science. You know, science needs to be self-self-questioning and changing. And bureaucracies are the absolute opposite of that. But here I want to give a kind of controversial, probably, argument about why I think we need to keep the dietary guidelines for a little while longer. And that is this. We have been suffering now under 65 years of misinformation. And this information has been I would say propagandized on us to a astonishing degree. And to we need a period where we have the highest level government authority speaking the truth about nutrition and health. I believe if it doesn't come from the government, I don't know where it could come from that would have the same authority to spread the correct message. Um I think it's super important that we have a re-education campaign. And if not the government, I mean, I'm obviously not a fan of giant government, especially wrong guidelines. But if not the government, it will be just mayhem out there. Um And it will be very hard to get good information, reliable information. So, I mean, I'm open to debate, but I think there needs to be correct There needs to be an correct information campaign to um in order to reverse the the decades of bad advice. Thanks, but but thanks, but it did work before there was a guideline somehow. >> Yes, but now we've had 65 years of propaganda, so that's that's not nothing. Right? Now everybody believes red meat is bad, fruits, vegetables, whole grains are good. We cannot go back to the '60s where we had a different mindset. It seemed to me that the the policy was food pyramid, it was driven by lobbying from companies lobbying for the food America makes. Oops, we got to stop, Eric. Sorry. >> That looks pretty >> okay. Stop, stop, stop. Okay, everybody, thank you very much.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: -QIqsVQXWE0 (https://youtu.be/-QIqsVQXWE0) ===

And I think it's really fascinating too, because there there appears to be some level of nutritional interaction between sodium and carbohydrate intake. And what I think was interesting is there was this trial that was published not I think it was too terribly long ago, but it was like a it was like a DASH diet versus a keto diet. So the DASH diet was you know low fat, high whole grains, uh plant-based, um salt restricted. So low salt. But then you on the flip side you had the ketogenic diet arm that was very low carb, no necessarily restriction on salt per se. And what did they find in that clinical trial was for individuals that had type 2 diabetes that were overweight, they saw more weight loss on the ketogenic diet. They saw more reductions in A1C, more medication de-escalation. And then they also saw better blood pressure control. And so what that tells me is that probably in this Western society that we live in, there's probably this big interaction between salt and carbohydrate intake. The higher carbohydrate intake you have in, probably the lower you need to go with salt. The lower carbohydrate intake you have, probably the more you can eat more salt. And then sometimes in some circumstances, you must. You must eat more salt in order to feel normal and good. Um not getting hypotensive and dizzy and lightheaded and feel like you're going to pass out and get constipated. And then you already know this is I'm one of these outliers. I'm glad I share this story because even though I self-acknowledge when I do that I am an outlier, there's a lot of lean mass hyper-responders. There's just a lot of people who adopt getting a low carb diet and the lower they go, the more ketogenic, the more militantly keto ketogenic I am, the more I just need to supplement more salt. That's you know again, maybe an outlier, but there's enough of us that it's a story that's worth repeating. Yeah, I I completely agree. By the way, I have a question for you. On how that how how you what your journey was like to get to the point where you were actually taking salt tablets. Because you know I have a I have said I have a subset of patients that will you know adopt a ketogenic diet, do be doing very well, but they'll still have some of these residual symptoms of the natriuresis of fasting. Natr meaning like sodium, resis meaning elimination from the urine. Um and it's typically associated with like a fasted or pseudo-fasted state, which would be comparable to a ketogenic diet. And and you know sometimes they're just dialing up on salt, dialing up on salt, and they still find that they're having some of these some of these residual symptoms of constipation maybe, or of dizziness, lightheadedness, or the blood pressure's getting too low. And I'm like, well, you know, I know this guy that's done like salt tablets in the past. I've I've yet to ever recommend one to. I mean, I've I've gone over it with a couple of my physicians like, yeah, you know, we usually reserve salt tablets tablets to the nephrologists. We're not like looking to typically prescribe a gram of sodium chloride to anybody in a tablet form. Uh but tell me tell me about your experience with that. Yeah, so first of all, let me let me be very let me humbly acknowledge that of all the things that I've been trying to figure out in this whole journey, it was hands-down the hardest one. And the reason is for I would argue is probably the reason for most people, almost everybody, is that it was easy to rule out. Oh crap, I'm already getting plenty of salt. I mean, I This is what I kept saying to myself. This by the way goes that the journey on keto started in 2015. All the way up until the fall of 2018, I had been playing with electrolytes back and forth constantly. And I kept ruling out salt because I felt like I was putting more than enough salt on my food. That could not possibly be it. And besides, the symptoms were more characteristic of things like low potassium or magnesium, for example. I would get foot cramps. I would get lightheadedness. Can be a number of different electrolytes to be fair. Uh but feeling run down, that also can be a number of different electrolytes. But I I figured getting the foot cramps, occasionally getting charley horses, that kind of thing. No, that that's not going to be sodium. That's going to be one of these two, or there are other electrolytes. So I I kept for a while I had uh was taking something called sports salts, which was a nice complement of electrolytes. And I was just uh I want to say I was taking four or five of them a day or something like that. And it helped a lot. You know, I want to say maybe cut it cut the frequency and the severity in half to two-thirds. But So four or five of those a day, and each one of them has a gram of sodium and or a gram of sodium chloride? Or a gram of sodium? >> can't remember for sure. I want to say it was less than a gram of sodium. I want to say it was probably closer to like say half a gram of sodium, something like that. Okay. I don't know. But I thought what was in the sports salts that were helping were uh the magnesium and potassium. As you probably already know, potassium by law cannot be that high in its dosage when you get in a supplement form. And so I would get the Morton's Lite Salt, which is uh potassium chloride, I believe, which is a way to get a large amount of potassium. By the way, not that anything we're saying here is medical advice, but people should be aware that you don't want to take a large dose of potassium in a single sitting. And ideally you want to take it with food. Of the electrolytes, it is really truly dangerous to have in large dosage all at once. Okay. So I'm learning all these things. I keep playing with the amounts. And I keep going, I just don't get it. I don't understand why I have this issue when I'm keto because I'm doing so well on keto. I love it so much. And then uh it's George Henderson who brought to my attention that that it's possible the fructose malabsorption that I learned I had long before I was into this journey at all might be relevant with regard to my absorption of salt. It might have been two electrolytes in general, but definitely in the course of in the in the case of absorption of salt or or once broken down sodium in particular that And forgive me, I can't speak to the exact pathway, but the thing the same thing that helps with the transport related to fructose malabsorption could also reduce the absorption of sodium. I said, well, you know, that actually makes a lot of sense. If I've had this fructose malabsorption has been pretty bad, and I believe I helped to cause it along with my two best friends who all three of us used to be chronic soda drinkers downing super big gulps when we'd go to 7-Eleven every day while we're binging video games as kids, we all by the way developed fructose malabsorption. Coincidence? >> So how do you how do you diagnose that? Or how how did you guys determine that you had fructose malabsorption? Or tell me about that. All three of us were developing IBS into middle age. Very intensive IBS. And it was my friend Leroy who actually was the first to visit me here in Las Vegas and wanted to have the root beer that I was drinking, but conceded he's had to swear off all high fructose corn syrup uh because that was what gave him the symptoms of IBS. And I was like, wait, what are you talking about? Cuz I have symptoms of IBS. You're saying this This does that stuff? Right. What makes this even funnier to go two years earlier is I was suspicious that maybe soda had something to do with my IBS. And so I quit soda and I was like, well, but I still want a sweet drink of some kind to replace it. I'll have apple juice. And so lo and behold, I didn't cease the symptoms when I replaced it with apple juice. Shocker. >> Yeah. Anyway, he says that I cut out all high fructose corn syrup. Sure enough, I don't have any symptoms. And then to further test it, um my friend Andrew and I did an experiment where one day after not having any symptoms for 2 weeks, I said, I got to test this, but I got to do it with a non-high fructose corn syrup thing. So I'm going to do it with apples. So we ate a bunch of apples. I was like, oh, this is actually not too bad. I'm doing fine. That evening I'm doubled over in pain. I like I could hardly stand it. So that was when I realized I do in fact have fructose malabsorption. Um good thing to know by the way for anybody who's thinking about going keto, if you have this, you might find all of a sudden the symptoms cease because it turns out you had some poor, you know, like we did. We had a problem with absorbing fructose. And by the or I get I should say managing fructose be a more accurate way of putting it. I should emphasize by the way, fructose malabsorption, why it's so sucky, is that you don't feel the symptoms right away after the bolus. And it's very inconsistent, but typically they would manifest anywhere from 12 to 36 hours later. Mm. So typically when you're feeling something and you think it was the thing you consumed, you're looking to the last meal. But often it was half a day later, sometimes 2 days later. Wow. Women are tricky here. Yeah. So it's a it's so it's an inducible condition. So you had mentioned that you think that it was it was a function of how much regular soda you were consuming. So how do how does that work? Yeah, as in because I was a chronic soda drinker pretty much my whole life. Uh I would and again, the symptoms are not consistent. So they would kind of come in and they would kind of go out, but there would be sometimes where I'd have gas pains where like I just I couldn't stand. I was like doubled over and I was again thinking to what I last ate, and I would cut out all lots of different foods or meals thinking it had something to do with that, or maybe I had food poisoning. Just couldn't figure it out. But that uh was what keyed off George Henderson to send me this paper. It's now been several years. I I'd have to see if I can find the paper. But that convinced me to rethink whether or not I really was getting enough salt. And so finally I said, you know, I'm just going to for 2 weeks, I'm just going to consume salt with abandon and I'm going to drink salt water. I'm just going to be making sure that I get um 10 12 g of salt at least. I'm just going to I'm going to rule it out. And I got a blood pressure cuff just in case. Just going to have the blood pressure, but as far as I know I have no salt sensitivity. So my blood pressure doesn't go up. Uh at least for me in particular. And I do it for 2 weeks and all the symptoms disappear. Like just completely. And I I I said to myself, it can't be that simple. It really can't. And since that time there have been multiple times where I wasn't frosting my food enough. Because I was just going nuts with really upping my salt cuz when when I was just consuming with abandonment, I found that I really could, for example, just put a layer of salt on my steak and on my cheeseburgers. And it was just making it tastier. Like I kept waiting until it get too salty. I put a lot of salt on my eggs, but that is one place where it can get too salty if I put too much. But I really can have a it's it's very it's very comical to be around other people when they're seeing just how much salt I'm putting on my steak. Because to twist off the shaker top and Yeah, for real. I've done that many times where I'm just kind of like not just you know, spreading a little Anyway. Um But then yeah, at a certain point I said, well, I'm this is kind of counterproductive cuz then I'm always needing to have at least one portion of food that I can really salt the heck out of. I'm just going to supplement. So I just started getting salt tablets. And now there's a number of people who do the same thing. They just actually take my recommendation because like me they don't need to supplement any other electrolyte. The sodium is kind of the trunk of the tree as it was explained to me in this article. And I've not followed up on that, but in effect that your body will um ditch other electrolytes to preserve the sodium. I can't speak as much to the science behind that, but regardless, I do know this, since doing it, if I always supplement enough salt, I don't have the other symptoms associated with these cramps. Because it may well have been that supplementing in the magnesium and potassium was helping to reach some level of that depletion. >> [clears throat] >> But that ultimately the root cause came back to the sodium. It's possible. So [snorts] So if you were going to potentially, again, not medical advice or anything, but you know, with respect to the sodium tablets, did you start with like did you just do a conversion where you're like, okay, this is ballpark how much sodium I'm having per day. I'm going to just convert this into tablets and then just take the tablets with food. Is that typically what you did or Yeah, I'd like to say it was that you know, specific, but really it was just I started with two tablets per meal. Then I went up to three, then I went up to four cuz I eat twice a day. Okay, so eight eight salt tablets a day. Eight salt eight salt tablets a day unless I've been doing it for a while then I scale it back to three. Okay. But this is in addition to how much I salt my food anyway. Okay. And GI distress was Okay. Yeah. Okay. But if I'm on top of my salt tablets, I don't that and it's funny you mentioned constipation. That also just any variation of that you know, disappears. That's a huge one that I find. Um maybe we can talk about GLP-1 agonists or something like that if you if you're interested in that, but you know, one of the things that I consistently find is constipation in the population um that start on these agents. And it's not fiber that helps very much. It's really not carbohydrate that helps very much. It's really not Miralax that helps or Senna or any of these pharmacofl- pharmacotherapeutic options. Adding two cups of broth a day is by far my most potent hack for helping people with severe constipation on these medications. I mean it works like 90 I give it like a 95% hit rate. I mean it's remarkable. But no one no one's thinking about those things because you know, sodium is going to make your heart explode and and [clears throat] you know, give you really high blood pressure and uh give you a stroke. And so I think it's just I don't know. It's a bit of a challenge for me because I feel like you know, sodium issues might be hiding in plain sight for a lot of for a lot of ailments, a lot of issues. Look, we got to we got to state it like it is. It's an essential mineral. That means you have to get it from outside the body. The body has no way to trick for compensating for its absence. You have to have it. We're we're very electrical beings. Right. So there's a reason why we need a certain number of minerals. Now, I think it's fair as some people bring this up where they say, well, wait a sec. Ancestrally, do you really think our you know, our ancestors were consuming enough salt that would you know, be comparable to the salt tabs you've had. Probably not, but I think the fructose malabsorption might be a component to that. It's a product of your of your environment. Yeah. >> You know. That said, I'd be willing to bet our ancestors got quite a bit of minerals. Frankly because they weren't >> [laughter] >> Let let's just say the hygiene of the food that they were consuming wasn't always the most ideal, right? So there was a lot more consumption of things via the soil that may not have gotten um that on top of things like, for example, when eating meats you would have more of the blood itself, which is a lot more electrolyte rich.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 74rwKa9JMTE (https://youtu.be/74rwKa9JMTE) ===

There's a continual care component that you can provide as a content creator. >> Yeah, for sure. And you know, we started with Facebook group and and even a local support group and and that's just starting up again after the pandemic closed down. At a local church, there's going to be a support group. And you know, that's part particularly helpful if you have addiction, sugar addiction. And sugar addiction is is you know basically defined by you know craving the sugar if you give it up and then reintroducing sugar despite serious health consequences like diabetes and then having a withdrawal syndrome when you go off it. And I saw someone recently with the husband and wife and the husband said, "Well, I don't want her to do it because she when she was withdrawing off the sugar, she was kind of hard to be around, you know." So, we talk about substitutions and the keto adaptation and you know, there is a little bit of a of a knowledge uh base about getting started and and the support groups um even even face to face are important. Um, for some people it's as as deep an addiction as alcohol. And I know several my colleagues were at meetings and you know, where are you going? Oh, no. I said, well, no, where'd you go? They were going to AA meetings even though they were out of town at some other. So, Alcoholics Anonymous knows that that contact even on a daily basis sometimes is really important for some people. And I think that's true for sugar, too. >> Yeah. I mean, look, it I tal I've already talked about it on many of my prior episodes, I'll just say it here now. Much as I love low carb or just for that matter, people wanting to get a sense of how better to adjust their diet. You just cannot take off the table the importance of the social interaction of morning routines of things in your life outside of diet, but often integrate diet and influence you and your choices on diet. You've got to be mindful of that. It's a lot of people fall off their diet when during the holidays there. Sure, they come a lot of times with the best intentions. They're going to, you know, find the lowest carb thing on the buffet table that grandma made, but she's also got her pie that you have warm, loving feelings about consuming as a child, but on top of that, you're, you know, you're seeing the rest of your family consume it and they seem to feel like you're dejecting them by not consuming it yourself. That's not a good enough reason to fall off your diet, but it's understandable that those pressures can be important to recognize >> a lot of times to prepare for. I don't know about you, but often when I'm going home for the holidays, uh I I come with food of my own in hand if I think it's going to be a challenging situation. So, I bring I bring my own cheese sticks. Sometimes sometimes I make my own treats, my own keto treats or, you know, for example um uh I'll have um uh baked uh low sugar chocolate chip cookies because often the gooiest, most delicious chocolate chip cookies are there and I'm like then I can at least feel like I'm participating. >> Yeah. >> But my preparation helped keep me on the straight and narrow because here's the other problem. The other problem is I don't know about you, but I know this is the case with many probably most people. The moment I cheat, even if I'm giving my ch my even if I'm telling myself I'm just doing it this once, I break the seal and now all of a sudden that's on the table that's in the menu of possible things I can consume. So now past the holidays, oh okay, well, you know, I'm in an airport. What can I do? I'm going to have and my level of resolve has changed >> from having that one cheat. Yeah. >> So these are things you have to be mindful of. It's not just good enough to know about the diet or even the initial practice. It is that constant connection not only with these choices but with the people in your life who hopefully are interested in the same thing. >> Well, you know, a couple thoughts about that. One is if you reversed a serious medical condition that you've had for 20 years, you have more resolve to stay on it. >> That's what we see. But still people who develop diabetes in my experience are some of the worst sugarolics. People who go for weight loss surgery they're the worst sugarolics carbaholics we can call them because and even then they wanted they allowed somebody else to operate on them to handle the addiction you. So my early years as a resident in internal medicine in the hospital and then in the clinics I saw people who would smoke through their tracheosttomy. So they had they couldn't breathe through here. The air is just coming out of here and they would go outside and smoke through. So and the tobacco caused the cancer that they had to remove from their neck. So, you know, there is an addictive component which which is fascinating. I'm hearing now, you know, rumors of, well, if someone eats bad things or they smoke, we shouldn't pay for their insurance. And I grew up in the addiction world and know that people aren't in control. And and so in the obesity medicine or keto medicine mindset over the holidays, it's a relapse. So January is very busy in the clinics because people come back. We go over the damage report so to speak and say it's okay. You just get back on and yes you have to like taking a band-aid off. Do it all at once. it's less painful and you know get out all the stuff out of the house if you're so there's a >> comparable to alcoholism too in that well I just want to ease off of having fallen off the wagon it's like >> it doesn't work well hopefully one day it'll be socially unacceptable to offer a carb to a carbaholic or even a food pusher will just totally you know squaltch someone's u um resolve I'll make them cheat. I hate that language, by the way. It's not like I have to send you to the principal's office for cheating on a test. It's just eating carbs. And um the the more so immediately I teach people about the grams of carbs. It's a quantitative thing. It's not like a cult where you know you're going to die if you have some and because you've eaten them for, you know, x number of years, they haven't killed you so far. But a lot of people do bring up the idea that it's like poison just so they can stay away that initial, you know, three six months. Some in that three to six month period, carp creep is just I I just expect it that carbs will start creeping back in and and uh kind of like whack-a-ole that game at the fair. You know, what is it now? You know, which well in in North Carolina it's sweet tea. Okay. Well, you know, you can't have that. Well, or it's my, you know, grit gates, you know, no, can't, you know, um, turns out a lot of people that I'm teaching don't know anything about nutrition and I still have to meet them where they are. and and so I think the brilliance of the method I use that makes it uh more um doable is that it's just listing the foods in English on a and I have a Spanish translation and other people have put it in other languages but you don't have to understand what an amino acid is or a protein or you don't have to use an app and it's just stay to the foods on this list and uh when someone comes back saying on the list that they're having um uh sweet tea. Someone did and I said, "Well, you can't have sweet tea." And and she said, "Well, you never said I couldn't." >> Right? >> So, well, that's the followup. So, the in that class that particular that she was in maybe I didn't say and no sweet tea or maybe she was sleeping because of sleep apnea. She was tired during the day and so now it becomes a meth. So, we know it works if you do it. I mean 2005 you put 25 people on a research ward they all lose weight given ad liib access to foods um it was a pre-post kind of study so we know it works if you do it so there's an element of how do you teach it properly how do you follow up with people to make sure they understand how how do you explain that you know it's not a linear ramp like this for the weight loss it's more like a stairstep pattern People will say, "Well, I didn't lose weight in two days. I'm at a plateau." You know, so this is all obesity medicine. We teach the the people to be supportive. The doctors who generally are supportive do great in in whatever technique they're using.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: SpMtrgl-OVk (https://youtu.be/SpMtrgl-OVk) ===

Well, he said, "Well, what if we lose body fat? Can we reverse it?" And he conducted a series of studies, counterpoint, counterbalance, the direct trial. Uh, and most recently, I can't remember what it was called, but it was in normal weight people. Um, so people who weren't overweight, but they still had type 2 diabetes. And across the board, he showed that the mo that losing body fat reversed diabetes and their diabetes stayed gone even when they reintroduced carbohydrates into the diet so long as they didn't regain body fat. And the only people who this didn't benefit were people who had had diabetes for so long they did have pancreatic damage. And in this case, it was simply because they're they're not producing in they're insulin. They're kind of like have a pseudo type 1 diabetes and so they're going to have blood glucose problems when they eat carbohydrates again because their pancreas is failing them. Um and and so you know there's h hands down uh losing body fat is the number one thing you can do to improve your metabolic health. It directly addresses the fundamental drivers of insulin resistance and diabetes. And it doesn't matter how you lose that body fat. If you eat keto, if you eat high carbohydrate, doesn't matter. Um the end result's the same because it's excessive body fat that drives like this domino effect that leads the body to become metabolically unhealthy. So question one, do you believe that there's a diet that can be high insulin but will succeed at lowering body fat? >> Yes. Because insulin if insulin as a result of eating will not be elevated all the time. >> Okay, let me change it then. Let's just say a high fasting insulin diet. >> Yeah. Well, the people in these studies with type two diabetes have high fasting insulin and they diet. They lose body fat. Um and >> do you know offhand what their fasting insulin was? >> Above 50 I want to say. Um but >> 50 milliou really? >> Yes. Uh I think um but I'm sure it it it varied from study to study too. Uh but yeah, there was in his very first um study, the the counterpoint study, uh he did eight weeks of a very low calorie diet. You know, um these people just drank shakes with some carb, fat, and protein. >> I suspect if it's very low calorie, they would have lower fasting insulin. Or let me put it this way, I would expect the trend for fasting insulin to be lower and lower. So you Okay, so you're talking about if they have high fasting insulin while they're dieting, >> right? >> Okay. Um I don't know. I don't even know if >> So this isn't me trying to advance a particular model. >> Yeah. >> I'm just stating I do agree with and I'm actually picking this up from Ben Bigman. I do agree that any diet that's going to ultimately be successful for weight loss is a low insulin diet. This is not me making a case for carbohydrates per se, but insulin is the central anabolic hormone in our body, right? If you have a 12-hour fasted period, I expect it to be low if you if you're expecting to lose weight. Yeah, I think I see what you're saying. And I So I So the question there's two kind of things that are going around in my head. And the first one is well if insulin is high um you know what what is it that's making it chronically high to begin with. If it's insulin resistance then even though you have high levels of insulin the signal that insulin is able to transmit isn't high because your cells aren't picking up on it. So this is it doesn't matter in in a sense. Um now what about a situation where uh you have normal insulin sensitivity but you have chronically high insulin levels and I don't know if that scenario exists. >> Well I I mean it it it could happen for example with a type 1 diabetic overdosing on exogenous insulin. >> Yeah. But exogenous insulin I I don't think is applicable at all to normal physiology. Right. But you see where I'm going with this is yeah, obviously you could become hypoglycemic and pass out. Yeah. Right. From an overexposure of insulin in the periphery. >> Well, I so if you're I I think insulin can stop fat loss regardless of energy balance. Um, and I say that primarily because, uh, in in order to discover the essential fatty acids, um, researchers had to feed high carbohydrate like shakes to participants every 2 hours to keep their insulin elevated because what they realized is that uh, if you take out all essential fatty acids from the diet, there's still a bunch stored in their body fat that can s uh, you prevent a deficiency for a long time until they've wasted away. Uh so they needed to keep all that fat trapped in their fat cells. Um so but a and so if you take like someone with type 1 diabetes and they're injecting a or even type 2 diabetes, let's say, and they're injecting insulin because maybe their own pancreas isn't pumping out enough. Um, I I would think that it could inhibit fat loss, but I I I'm not sure it would be able to stop it. Um, and I would actually be really interested in seeing a study on this uh because I think it's a good question. Um I would ex like I said I would at least stick by the trend. It may be true that there's a level of insulin resistance during the process of fat loss for which it would be higher than what we would expect in a metabolically healthy population. Totally agree on that. But I I do believe that you need to get fasted insulin lower. And I'll reassert this. This is not me saying you can't have a diet that has carbohydrates, but when you're talking about a caloric deficit, that's another means of which to get to a lower fasted insulin because the area under the curve is still going to be lower, >> right? >> Okay. Um, well, I guess my question would be what's the point of looking like of the fasted insulin like it, you know, we we could agree. we could say, okay, fasted insulin does need to drop to lose body fat, but that's going to happen when you create an energy deficit. So, it it just it doesn't seem like an important variable uh off the top of my head because it's it's not something you have control over. What you do have control over is what you eat. And if you eat any diet that puts you in an energy deficit and it drops fasting insulin, then it just kind of goes back to the main point where you need to diet and and lose body fat, even if part of that effect is mediated by the fasting insulin going down from the energy deficit. >> I definitely think you have control over insulin area under the curve. I I think that you could be on a low carb diet and ultimately end up with lower net insulin levels. Yes. >> This is not to say that you can't overconume on a low carb diet. I think you can, by the way. Right. >> But to get us to that place where we might actually have a disagreement because we have plenty of overlap here. Right. >> The the and this is why I really want to connect these two dots for you. Okay, Alex. So this guy here, right? This is a this is a lipoprotein. This is where those triglycerides came from that got into the fat cell, right? We agree on that there. Okay. If we want to get extra technical, if we want to get extra technical, there is such a thing as denovo lipogenesis in fat cells, right? >> Yeah. But predominantly in the sack, the vast majority of triglycerides originated from an apo lipoprotein. Do we agree on that? >> Yes. >> And when those cells are too full, they're not accepting anything. What then happens to these lipid rich apo lipoproteins? >> I would argue they hang out longer. They're not finding parking spaces for their triglycerides. >> Yeah. So you have more of these triglyceride rich VLDLDLs. That means there's going to be higher levels of triglycerides in the blood >> because they're not finding where they can put it. The ectopic fat that gets developed. Why? Because we're reaching a threshold where they're now hyper triglyceridemic. There's so much that's roaming around. They're like, we got to put it somewhere because there's scarce space in Yeah. in the circulator. So we got to plug it somewhere. Right. But the problem is this not getting turned over, the triglycerides not getting turned over are the reason why the HDL cholesterol is lower because it's a marker of turnover. >> That's why lean mass hyperresponders have ridiculously high HDL I would argue because their turnover of triglycerides off of apop lipoproteins is so rapid that it bumps up the HDL cholesterol because the HDL particle species is higher. Now, the reason this is so important is because lean mass hyperresponders are both metabolically healthy and run relatively at lower fasting insulin levels. But here's where it gets interesting. They have a high quantity of free fatty acids in their area under the curve. So at any point in time and and I can show this with my own blood work. I actually have a lot of nephas non-sterified fatty acids that are circulating in any kind any given time and my triglycerides are higher relatively following meal times because the insulin is not putting them away as quickly. It's more acting on the glucose than it is on the fat. But you have a scenario that you don't normally see in the literature, which is the triglycerides will be low when I'm fasting, but yet my free fatty acids will be higher. >> Yeah. >> And that gets back to the Randall cycle. >> So the Randall cycle you were describing has to do with how glucose is competing with fat within the cell. >> Yeah. >> Right. And if there's more free fatty acids inside the cell, the cell's not dumb. It goes, "Oh, well, we're more fat adapted. I guess there's a greater abundance of fat. Let's spare out the glucose and leave it there for the obligate cells like like red blood cells like ariththraittes, right? >> I think if you're in a scenario where you have a lot of fuel in your bloodstream, that's a huge sign right there. And especially if it's triglycerides. Getting back to the personal fat threshold, I agree. If you have high triglycerides and low HDL, it's probably going to preede full-blown type two diabetes. And you should pay close attention to that. >> Yeah. >> Right. >> Yes. >> But that's why all of this comes full circle. What what I love about this is Alex, what you're describing to me is one dot over here and this other dot and and you said this offline before we started. You're comfortable saying I don't know. when it comes to lipids for the things we may be getting into. >> But I want to connect these two dots for you as to why you want to care so much about seeing these ape lipoproteins when they're getting processed properly. Because if they're succeeding, if it's a success cycle of putting those triglycerides away, of course, I want to see how much those adyposytes, those fat cells when they're healthy and showcasing that in the lipid profile does not associate with a higher level of atheroscerosis with plaque development in the arteries. Right. >> Yeah. So, I mean, I like the research question. Um, and you know, a a big thing that that I I say frequently and I pretty sure in our recent Twitter discussion I might have said it to you too, but heart disease and atherosclerosis is multiffactorial. There's a lot of different things that contribute to its development and progression.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: fuOdJjgV1Rw (https://youtu.be/fuOdJjgV1Rw) ===

Yeah, >> let's talk about statistics modeling um and all cause mortality. >> Oh yeah. Okay. >> Favorite pet subject, right? >> Yeah. >> So the one thing that you were passionate about at the end of our prior conversation was that a lot of people latch on to the correlation is not causation >> and you feel it's you feel it's a bit over it's a bit taken too far, right? Go ahead and expand on that. >> Yeah, as in it's it's just repeated almost like drone like, you know, it's just if if people see it's an well, I got two things to say. One, people see it's an epidemiological study and they say, well, correlation isn't causation. So, let me just not even bother reading this study. But what's comical is that when it comes to other things, blood pressure, insulin resistance, you know, any of these other more established markers and risk factors that people just more or less universally agree are problematic. You don't hear that critique, which I just find I just want to state I just find that very comical. Anyway, but yes, correlation is not causation. I still think that's true. Um, but as statistics has has been developing over the many decades, we've started to get to this point where we can control for different variables and whatnot. Now, to be clear, I'm not stating that I am a an expert in uh controlling for these different variables and stuff. Again, I have to rely on researchers and biostatistitians, which I have taken some time to to reach out to biostatistitians, sit down with them and have them explain to me, you know, how this kind of stuff works in general. Um, but, you know, have I done these kinds of like controls and and and whatnot? No, I haven't. So there's a certain level of trust again in the researchers that do this kind of research that you can control for these different variables which ultimately solidifies it. I I wouldn't say that it ever gives you a 100% answer, but it it increases with each controlling variable that you're able to account for. It increases your likelihood that you're aiming at the right direction. And I don't think that a lot of people give that enough credit. And I'm assuming that your perspective, and I'm sure you'll give it again, which is that we can't necessarily rely on the maybe the specificity on of some of these controls. Is that somewhere in in in the ballpark? >> You're of course familiar with Bradford Hill. >> Yeah. I I'm a Bradford Hill stan. >> Okay. >> I love Bradford Hill. I think that I think that a lot of folks claim they meet Bradford Hills threshold, but to be fair and uh this is often a a missed point by many people. Bradford Hills super a towering icon in epidemiology. He had his Bradford Hill criteria, which a lot of people hear about the Bradford Hill criteria. And it's these uh different assessments. Uh the three we probably hear about the most are strength, consistency, and temporality. Um so when something's super strong, it means that the the exposure to the outcome are both super high and highly correlated, right? uh the consistency is that it shows up in multiple lines of evidence. That's brought up a lot for example with the ES paper and so forth. Right now this is where one of my first objections is going to come in Bradford Hill getting back to the strength would consider and he was most famous for coming after smoking. He he felt that smoking was bad and gave these assessments to show how his criteria showed that the threshold level of hitting his criteria for smoking, for example, causing lung cancer was very strong, >> right? He didn't have an end point where it's like ding ding ding, you got it. You you've confirmed it. >> Sure. >> He acknowledged that observational data did have that limitation. >> Yeah. But that said, uh, even in his initial speech where he out, you know, outlined these criteria, I'm not sure, but I think this was in his initial speech, he brought up when it came to either cardiovascular disease or all cause mortality, smoking was still just barely a two on like the hazard ratio. And he didn't consider that very strong, >> he said in a speech. And I think a lot of people since then, myself included, would be like, "Okay, I kind of don't even want to look at something until it hits a two, right? So that you can actually see that there's at least enough there." I think that statistics these days goes way way way less than a two. >> Oh, I agree. Yeah. >> And makes a causal claim. So my objection is not whether or not we can look at data that has a much you know less associable associable associative degree than two for the hazard ratio and not consider it meaningful information. I would consider it meaningful information. I like the term hypothesis building even though it may sound like a dismissal. You might be like, "Oh, it's just a hypothesis. I don't I'm not going to listen to anything more you say." >> Okay. >> I think what you do is you say, you know, there seems to be a relationship here. These two variables have a correlation and here's the strength level of it. Okay, maybe it doesn't hit a two, three, etc. on the hazard ratio side, but there there might be something here. It's worth looking closer, but you know, it's actually enough for me to act on myself. I may not, you know, I may not be convinced that the evidence proves causality beyond a reasonable doubt, but it's given me enough information that I can work off of that hypothesis and recognize the relative strength of what it is. And what frustrates me, Nick, is that nobody gives that answer seemingly in the nutrition space. It either is or it isn't. It's either completely dismissible and you can just throw it out into the garbage and be like that correlation is not causation into discussion. >> Mhm. >> Or no, we have enough evidence to say X causes Y. >> Yeah. >> Like red meat causes cancer, >> right? That that's a if and if you look closer, by the way, they they would say actually it's it's a what is it? A it's grade one. Yeah, class one A or whatever. Uh it and it's actually probably causes cancer which I feel is kind of a bit hedgy. >> It that's true. >> And then everyone runs with it who's pro getting rid of red meat goes hey red meat. It's >> they already said so. I forgot what the organization is but they say they cl >> I think it's the who. >> Yeah the who says >> no one skewer me for saying that word. >> Yeah. Some people get really upset about that one too. And and it's like I I don't see any problem with saying this organization thinks X causes Y. >> Sure. >> I have a problem with >> the certainty. >> Yeah. The certainty. It's the confidence in the certainty. That's my main objection. >> Well, goes back to my point about the arrogance. Right. >> Right. >> The the idea that I mean, and that's true. That's that's that's a great point. I I agree that especially when we talk about nutrition when you know a lot of these studies come out that people then jump on them and then just use that and say well it might be a correlation study and there may be many adjustments and whatnot but it's proving that red meat in this example is causing cancer or whatever it might be. Uh, and I think the WHO I I think it's I'm pretty sure it's the WHO that that said that. Um, I could be a little bit off, but they probably add the word probable because, you know, just like almost any other scientist, they have to they have to say, well, we can never be a thou, you know, 100% certain about anything. So, you know, with and but but it does leave this this gap of okay, well, what does probable mean? Is that a 1% uncertainty or is that a 20% uncertainty? Right. >> And it and a lot of this stuff is so contextless. Right. Right. and you start getting to the individual level and everything is contextless almost um to the point unless you do exactly to your point about Bradford Bradford Hill for the for the the strength of the association unless it's just overwhelming then the context becomes less and less of an issue uh because it starts almost applying to everyone no matter what smoking I mean, maybe there's this rare gene that we just haven't discovered that protects you completely from smoking and cancer and whatnot, but the odds are really high that if you start smoking that you're increasing your risk, we'll just say substantially. Uh, so yeah, I I agree with you. I I can absolutely see that. I think the where epidemiologists might come in and again this is pure speculation on my point because because I don't know I haven't done this kind of research but I would imagine that they have probably would probably argue that the statistical models have moved beyond Bradford Hill and have started using greater having greater specificity to the point where you can move that threat threshold down from let's say two and they do feel more confident at a little bit higher risk or whatever it might be. Um again pure speculation I don't know. >> No and for what it's worth I think that's probably true. I work with Adrien Sodamoda. You got to watch his lecture. >> Yep. >> Very advanced in statistics. >> Yeah. Definitely. >> And just great guy by the way. And I do think that there are means by which to better ascertain the you know a higher likelihood of causality. >> The the challenge that I'm sure you're also familiar with is I I think the present I think the nature of how science is set up today is very problematic.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: N2jEuJYZaLI (https://youtu.be/N2jEuJYZaLI) ===

I have an interesting thought experiment for you. >> I tell you I've got a new teleporter. It can teleport you to Tokyo. Would you like to go to Tokyo in my new teleporter? >> I think I know where this is going. But yeah, I'm going to say yes. >> You say yes. I And but you add how does it work? I go, well, it replicates you perfectly over in Tokyo. All your memories, all of your, you know, your emotions, all of that, the replication of you appears in Tokyo. The version of you that gets in this chamber right now is completely destroyed immediately. But Nick Norwitz will continue existing in Tokyo exactly as you are today, and you won't feel a thing. Do you jump in my teleporter? >> Yeah, >> you do. >> I do. >> Okay. Yeah. A lot of engineers say exactly what you said. I don't I have a difficult time with that. Right. >> Can I give you my rationale? >> Yeah. Go ahead. >> So I I guess the question you need to then ask is like what defines you because right the the the thing you're suggesting is that really you're building a clone but I'm being killed, >> right? >> Um and what I think, you know, when you ask what defines a human, it's it's not the atoms that build our body. Our atoms in our body get turned over, you know, over the years. M >> the atoms in my body are not the same atoms that were in my body when I was 10. They're just not. So I'm a physically a different specimen. >> Um and so based on that alone, I would be comfortable saying yes, I'll get in the teleporter. But even just like branching off beyond that, are we defined by our memories? I don't think so. Our memories are actually like, you know, recreated all the time. Our memories shift. our characteristics, our personality trait shift. There might be some underlying like consistent current. Um, I think we're definitely defined by our memories. I think our memories are extremely relevant as to who we are. >> You think if you have dementia and you lose your memory, you're dead. >> I I think that in a way depending on how bad the dementia is, even you yourself may consider yourself partly dead and a lot of your family. I mean, certainly I've unfortunately had to kind of experience working with this with my family. I'll give you a good example. My um my dad's brother because of experiences of seeing other family members on my mom's side lose a lot of cognition. Knowing where my dad's brother had gotten after a stroke and his state of being, I chose not to visit him toward the very end. Mostly so that I could preserve my memory of him and our last conversation, which was a really good conversation for him. >> Yeah. >> And because I knew that's what he wanted. I knew that's because it's what I would have wanted if I were him. I had similar experiences with family members. um my last interaction with my grandfather reached a different person. So all right, let's work with that premise and that we're built by our memories. In that case, then by that logic, it's fine to get in the teleporter, >> right? Cuz the clone of you has all the same memories, right? So I think that there are broader discussions about, you know, what defines a human and I don't think memory completely captures it to be honest because like we do our memories are recreated each time we recall them. Um and we still add to the memory pool. So like we are changing beings. So like what is the core like my memory bank now naked 29 is very different than my memory bank at age 10 is it the same person cuz the cumulative memories are totally different >> true and I've forgotten a lot of things as well so I've become a different person yeah I mean in a way so what I'm saying is like from birth to death there isn't like a very easy way to lineally linearly like define what am I not matter I don't think memories quite captures But it's definitely not personality traits. I think in large part the self is an illusion. It's a very good illusion. It's an illusion I enjoy and I will engage in this game that we call you know uh life in the self. But I do feel we are like it's it's actually hard to pin down the self. It it is and in programming there is something called a class and an instance. An inst a class is like the blueprint. An instance is like the thing made from the blueprint, right? And so what we're talking about is this is the instance of the class of Nick Norwitz. You're the instance. Therefore, if we make a new instance of you in Tokyo while this instance dies, Nick Norwitz, there's only one instance of the class of Nick Norwitz at a given moment, right? Okay. So why then do most of my engineering friends give the same answer you do but I don't and I don't have an answer for that but I can tell you it's compatible what you're saying is compatible with permanent longevity. You know why? Because at the point where we can make an instance of Nick Noritz's memories, his consciousness, all of that, and put it into a cybernetic machine that can live on indefinitely. Yeah, we've conquered death. Now, the harder question is, can we do that biologically? That's a tougher one. I think we'll get to the first scenario before we get to the second. >> I agree. That's going to be harder, the second scenario. Um but I I think yeah but but but don't get me wrong the first scenario is insanely difficult because you quite lit I mean this is called neuronet networks which sounds comparable to the human brain but the human brain I know you know this you're really into human you're you're into brain biology is incredibly complex and incredibly efficient in spite of what you might think is an inefficient organ. It's insanely efficient, so powerful. >> It's crazy. If you go to like take you have 86 billion neurons, um, and then a bunch of support cells, a ga on top of that, then you know, trillions, literally trillions of connections among neurons. and you like zoom in on any given neuron, it's not only branches or tiny branches off of branches that are constantly growing and shrinking and dynamically reconnecting with things to capture that and transfer it atom for atom really is a difficult problem but not an impossible one. So I don't know. >> I'd like to think that we can conquer death. I don't think it's I don't think we should need to die. Like if given the It's a weird thing because you ask people most people like, "Oh, death's part of life. It's natural." My dad, we've had these conversations even conversations. He even thinks it's selfish to want to live forever. And I'm like, "No, it's a different norm." Also, will probably be in parallel with this expanding to other planets. So, not like I have to die to create space on this planet for another human being. You know, I think it should be part of the It would be cool if it were part of the menu of options to live as long as you want and then exit whenever you feel you want to. Yeah. So, let's expand this a little bit more. Would you like to have a perfect memory? Anything you've ever experienced, you completely retain in perfection. is hard. I would say c can I be selective about how I recall it? >> Sure. You can even erase memories at will. >> Oh, then yes. >> That's different. I mean because like you can have a single traumatizing experience just like that is setting the groundwork for like PTSD on steroids, >> right? >> But given the conditions you put out. Yes. >> Yeah. So you you already know this as well. We further subdivide the brain into like the lyic system, the frontal lobe and how they interact with each other becomes relevant for all of these things like trauma, right? And how these affect your behavior. Okay. But these are definitely affecting the you you are >> right. So given that when you Nick Noritz live forever, it's not like the copy of you is not going to itself want these upgrades. So the you you are now is constrained by biology, is constrained by limitations such as memory loss, right? >> The me I am now. But but why wouldn't I want the upgrades? I'm saying you would want the upgrades. Yeah. Right. But it does mean that whatever we conceptualize as being living forever isn't just how we think, oh cool, my brain will exist and I'll think in the way that I do now, but with like some enhancements, >> right? It's selective evolution of you as an individual. >> Yeah. >> Which is fine, but we do that every day in our lives. Like like literally like setting a New Year's resolution. You're saying, "I want to change myself, >> right? and I'm going to take actions to do that based on the tools available to me. So, yeah, if there's like an upgrade that I can like sign up for where I have a perfect memory or uh I can eat Oreos without a stomach ache uh and be in perfect metabolic health as a cyborg and enjoy the sensation even though I didn't even enjoy it. Um maybe I'll set up for that. We'll never know.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: tegXWZtMsvk (https://youtu.be/tegXWZtMsvk) ===

I'd actually just like to take a moment to talk about Brian Johnson and get your thoughts on him. >> I Yeah, I want my I want your thoughts on him because it it this has been to to kind of set this up for people quite literally. I think both you and I were engaging him and some of what's going on with him and like I want to say just the last couple months we he's been off my radar this whole time until recently. >> So So the reason I was reviewing the the um podcast because a pretty prominent uh YouTuber um I think I can just say this. I'll let you know if if Joseph wants me to cut it out, but Joseph Everett, from what I learned, who's had a back and forth with him, is planning on doing a video. Um, I I looked at some of Joseph's stuff on Brian and I think it's pretty well done. Uh, it's pretty direct, but it's well done with legitimate questions and criticisms of some of the data he's put out there or not put out there. Um, so I he asked if I would, you know, be interviewed for the video. I said yes. Um, but I want to do my due diligence. So, I started to go back and listen to Brian's stuff and I remember I I first listened to Brian in long form on Trevor's Noah Noah's podcast and I was so taken by how thoughtful he was in long form like so how well he made some of the arguments and it really gave me a different perspective on him. I'd say at a high level I actually really respect what he's doing, how he challenges social norms, how he's doing this n equals one experiment which I think is quite legitimate even if he's commercializing it. Um and just his like uh you know innovative spirit and the again the way he thinks about changing norms and challenging like you know what is society 50 100 years from now going to think about us today and when you listen to him in long form um and the podcasts I listened to were Derek more place dates the Trevor no podcast and Diary of a CEO uh with Steven Bartlett and Brian he's great like I really think he's thought a lot about this at a philosophical level, but his engagement or what I've seen on the short form media, you know, has been, let's say, I think less intellectually rigorous. And I I don't put that out there as I mean to some degree it's a criticism but but I think uh to a larger extent it's a question because I I could see that the same I could turn the camera on me and say the same thing as myself like I hate doing Instagram reels. I truly hate chopping up my long form content putting out Instagram reel and then having some person say like oh but what about XYZ? I'm like that is addressed in the long video. Please go watch it. So, I realize short form is a necessary evil and that you use it in order to kind of test people's emotions and what provokes them. And so, making the devil's advocate argument for Brian, maybe that's what he's doing. And he's putting things out there that might be more superficial, but hoping to excite a more um deep dialogue, also accepting that there's going to be some collateral damage. which is going to piss some people off but not minding that too much because the fact of the matter is that is a consequence of the space. I'm going to pause here. I have further thoughts but >> response. >> Yeah. So I want to I I want to I want to say that there's an extraordinarily there's an extraordinary claim he makes that I think is I guess my best word is going to be problematic. That's not quite the word I want to use, but he's claiming to be the healthiest person on the planet. Obviously, there's a kind of a a marketing component to this, right? There's a he the it's regularly said, I think it's 2 million a year. 2 million a year is spent to analyze all the science and give him exactly the right food and nutrients and so forth to, you know, he's the ultimate in one in the sense of longevity. if there was a really rich person who just wanted to spend a lot of money to make that happen, right? It's it's a very fascinating story, >> right? >> It's just it's a strong claim to say you're the healthiest. And the very first instinct that I have when somebody says that is dang it, you're going to feel very you're going to feel very compelled to have to keep backing that up. So, for example, uh after I'd followed him and after I heard that he was saying that, id followed him before I'd heard that was part of his claim, I kept thinking, does he share when he gets a cold or if he gets like stomach flu, food poisoning, if he has any kind of or is there just no mention of these things occurring as though they just don't occur? because it's kind of like um a lot of these other influencers in the space for which they're using their own body and their own experience as an advertisement to for what they're promoting and what they're putting forth. That always concerns me a little bit. I'm not saying it's a bad thing inherently. I'm just saying I have a natural sense of skepticism when it comes to that. Yeah, I I was digging into that a little bit because he seems to be transparent about some of his like lab work for example, which I applaud, but there are also layers that just seem a little bit fishy to me. Like um and I don't know if this has been resolved, but there was discussion about whether or not he's still on like um testosterone because he didn't release his LH and FSH. Um >> so so he does he get it tested? >> I will presume so. So, you know, and so I don't know why he wouldn't disclose that. There was also a point in time where it's like he didn't have an Appleo B and it was like didn't get good enough measure. I don't know what that means. And also, and this is actually more to the point, um, I wanted to do some digging, and this is literally like yesterday when when Joseph was messaging me because Brian had put out an Excel sheet where he makes these claims like I'm in the top percentile for X, Y, and Z, you know, and sometimes there's references. So, I want to go click on the reference. I'm like, "Well, what what do you mean you're in the top percentile for blood glucose, fasting blood glucose, which is like 73, or it was another one like omega-3 index?" He's like, and it gave his number was 9.98%. And he's like, I'm in the top, I forget what it was, 1%. I'm like, well, I know general ranges for a lot of these like, you know, you know, quantification metrics. 8 to 12 is generally like considered good. Mine I know is 17.2. So, if you're in the top 1% at 9.98 and I'm at 17.2, too. Am I in the top 0.00001%? Like, what are you referring to? What is the reference range? Also, things like tieumir length. Like, I want to see the data you're making this claim off of. Also, you've been doing this for a couple of years. You're in your 40s. Do you really expect me to believe that you've increased your tomeorase activity so much so that you're now in the top? I don't remember the exact numbers, but top let's say 1% I think it was 1% of tieamir length. And then there's other things like intracellular NAD. I'm like, well, yeah, if you're supplementing highd dose NMN, your levels are going to go up. But it's like, you know, if there was a, you know, a decay in zinc levels from age 18 to 90 and a 9-year-old heavily supplements zinc, and then says, I have the zinc levels of a, you know, uh, an 18-year-old is like, okay, what do you do? So, I don't know how much to make out of the lab. Like, he's clearly a healthy person overall. You make labs if you take him at face value. I'm like, "All right, cool." But yeah, you're right. The claim about healthiest person alive and then some of the specifics about the claims he makes, the percentiles he's in, I think it could be done more rigorously. And then this is where I think if I had advice for Brian, if I may be so bold as to offer advice to Brian after seeing his praises, because I genuinely think with respect to the philosophy, he's very thoughtful. Like I really enjoy his long form discussions to get me to think. I actually do think and I'll just go as far as so far as to say this of the longevity quote gurus in the space he is my favorite overall. >> I actually think I like the guy. Um but I think he loses credibility like we were talking about earlier when he makes certain claims and it it's very apparent he's doesn't know what he's talking about. So like in uh uh the diary with CEO podcast, he referenced some study on like olive oil consumption where he's like olive oil consumption and in fact I think he accidentally said that it was like in addition to the normal diet caused like over five pounds of weight loss. You know, in retrospect, and uh Derek did actually a pretty good job of respectfully putting pushing back on this, like it was very clear Brian did not know the study he was talking about, nor really have spent time thinking about the mechanisms underlying. And that's become a little bit of a pattern where sometimes he makes claims or refers to studies where I don't think he understands the science. I think he's a great philosopher. He's not a scientist. And he's actually the first person to admit this where in in the Derek episode he's like look I rely on my team. I'm not the best person to be communicating the science but we have a very rigorous team put together. The issue is speaking now as a scientist you're not disclosing your you know how you're coming up with these protocols which I realize now are like private IP. Although it kind of conflicts with your message that this was never for commercial purposes you know and now it clearly is which is fine. and I have nothing against building a business, but if you want me to take you seriously as a scientist, like I need to understand the rationale that's going into your protocols and what he puts out publicly is not rigorous. And then he says his team's doing it, but his team's not communicating. And I'll just say I've actually gotten to see some of the backend material they were going to put out. I'm not going to name what it was on. I'm pretty sure it was okay to have shared this with me. Otherwise, I, you know, would have been under NDA and not shared this with me. But I reviewed a document that was going to go out via his team because we have let's say overlapping partners in a couple respects and I shredded to pieces. It was so lacking in rigor and actually they never ended up publishing on the topic after that. >> I don't know what happened. I won't speculate and hopefully I don't get anybody in trouble saying that. If Brian wants to have a further conversation, my suggestion to him is to up your scientific rigor and optics around that scientific rigor. Maybe his team really maybe maybe everything is pristine watertight behind the scenes, but right now the way the optics are on display with some of the things that I've just communicated, I think that is his Achilles heel. Because when you go on Dire of a CEO and reveal you don't know the study you're talking about and then handwave about your team being the one that really knows the science, but we can't access your team's work, you understand why people will be skeptical. Yeah. But this is this is a a common place where you and I have kind of a disagreement. I think that there's this higher layer of scientific rigor where somebody like yourself would be like, "Hey, I'm I'm a critic for you lacking the scientific rigor. You influencer person that I can identify here, but you're a fraction of the total." A lot of people who are not at those levels are going, "Sounds cool. I love the I love the narrative that it's 2 million a year and that, you know, you've got a team behind you." And I and by the way, I want to echo your sentiment. I hope it doesn't come off as though I'm just strictly critical of him. I really I first of all I think it's it's a fascinating thing to see happen in real time that there really is somebody who has all this investment and has taken this on in a way that only somebody rich in these kinds of resources can make this happen. And uh the level of support that he has with his family I think is kind of cool because it you know they're they're all in on this process and trying to make this work. Now I do want to bring up one other thing which is where he the first time we had an interaction I'm not expecting him to have an interaction with me but he had made this thread on red meat and was and and to be fair to him the way that he had the thread start out it was I don't consume red meat I'm cool with it if you do or something to that effect right so it didn't come off as ideologically hit you over the head right it was more he wanted to make a thread whereas his team made a thread, something like that, but it was his Twitter account that went into trying to explain why he feels that eating red meat would lower his longevity and therefore goes against the the larger goal that he's going for. Went through those studies and indeed it gets us right back to epidemiology and I brought up because I just I have to do it. Healthy user bias is a pain in the butt, but it has to be brought up. Not because we can just use it as a way to just toss out all data, but until we have health consscious folks who are proactively consuming red meat, which is a recent phenomenon, we do not know how much those people who eat red meat have those aspects of healthy user bias such as being more likely to smoke, being more likely to be sedentary, and all of the other things that come with ignoring the predominant advice of the era. which is what we're in right now, which is skip the steak and have a salad, >> right? >> The concept of carnivore that healthy people would be taking on. The concept of keto that healthy people intentionally would be taking on, that's new. That's brand new. Athletes before this point, certainly the athletes I was growing up with, they would they would consider saturated fat. They would consider meat. They would bad. you want to have a plant predominant diet and try to keep the meat, especially red meat, to a minimum. So, we don't know from strict observational data how much that healthy user bias affects things. And so, that's where the conversation started with him and I. And sure enough um he did concede to his credit he did concede that it is difficult to disentangle that but that he feels he knows enough to make that position to have that position at this point in time.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: YCFtk_H0hEw (https://youtu.be/YCFtk_H0hEw) ===

When was the first point in which you realized something was wrong with you from a health perspective? >> Um the end of college. So I was graduating Dartmouth uh class of 2018 and it was around 2017 when I was uh 21 years old where I started to have uh GI symptoms um starting really mildly like just general diarrhea, bloating after eating. For me, that was unusual because actually I want to rewind and talk about something that I haven't really talked about at length. I've told people my GI story, but my health story actually started before that. So, I was a very healthy kid by all outward metrics until age 17. So, um, around 16, 17, I got into distance running and I was pretty good. To pat myself on the back a little bit, like at age 17, I was running like two 45 marathons. I was a guilt runner. >> 2 hours 45 minutes. >> Yes. >> That's very fast. >> Yeah. No, and and just to kind of like I'm you alluded to it, but when I set my mind to something like I'm, you know, 110%. When I was 13, 14, I decided I want to break the school record in push-ups. So, I ended up breaking the state record. When I decided I wanted to get into running, it's like, "All right, yeah, it's Boston. It's the winter. I'm 17 years old. It's 0°, but it's Sunday, so it's my 22 mile run day, then let's go hit the gym after that." So, I was pretty hardcore and I got into running. Uh, and my first year of running was pretty successful. I kept on winning half marathon and marathon age group like division titles. um and ran about 3,000 mi in my first year. Um and then I started to get fractures. Now, for anybody who runs distance, like you have a young person running that kind of mileage, stress fracture is typical. So it it wasn't the first stress fracture that was eerie but the pattern that developed thereafter where I started to get stress fractures more and more and at lower mileage thresholds and they took a long time to heal. Um and it got to the point where you know whereas before I could run you know 90 mile weeks, 100 mile weeks before having any sort of joint or bone issues then I got fractures at 60 mile weeks then 40 mile weeks and 20 mile weeks. It got so frustrating over a period of a couple years that eventually I just said, "Look, I'm not going to deal with the frustration of distance running. Let me go cross trainin and go to triathling triathlons. But in my first triathlon race, which was a sprint triathlon, um the running portion is only a 5K, uh I snapped a bone in my foot in half. Um one of the blockish bones in the middle of your feet >> and it just cracked. Um, it was actually kind of a funny story because if you ever looked at like an X-ray of your foot, uh, the bones are are are overlapping such that there's a lot of lines on the X-ray, so you can't always see a fracture. So, I got an X-ray and the initial X-ray is like, "Oh, you're fine." Then I was walking around for a week and I was on a date and I had this embarrassing moment where I couldn't get a shoe on after we went like into a pond cuz I looked at my foot was just so swollen. So, I went back and got an MRI and he's like, "Oh yeah, that bone it snapped in half." I'm like, "Thank you. Been walking around on this on a week for a week." But um anyway, uh and that after two years of suffering from fractures, uh compelled a DEXA scan, a bone density scan, which doctors had not wanted to give me for a couple years because I was a healthy young guy. I had normal testosterone, normal BMI, normal thyroid, normal all markers across the board were dead normal, including lipids because I wasn't a Lima responder at this point. So, they're like, "You're a healthy young guy. Like, you don't have low bone density. like there's no reason to get a scan. But after this break, they got a scan and I had then got diagnosed with osteoporosis. Um, and that's not hyperbole. My TNZ scores, which at this age um were the same for those who know the ins and outs, but basically I was over um 3.2 standard deviations below me. U clinically diagnosible osteoporosis. >> Jeez. I had the bone density of like a 70 or 80 year old person at that point in time which you know while I didn't have a test before that for bone density you can intuit it I didn't have that all my life because I had never had a fracture prior to starting running and there was a year where I could run 3,000 miles without fracturing. So that begged the question what happened to my bones? Um and that was my first medical mystery. And um >> you feel like you know the answer to that right now? >> I have an idea. So, this is >> we'll get back to that, but but this is exactly where I'm going. Um, where with how the story evolved. >> Um, and you're going to see kind of this builds into my ulcerative colitis story and and why I'm so such an thorn in the side of some people. I think it'll it'll kind of flesh out the background. But um you know I got treated by some great doctors um who I think in general very thoughtful people but doctors are influenced by their prior exposures patients they've treated I mean in fact they should be that that's a reasonable heristic so based on the profile I was presenting and because I was a high performing athlete running the mileage I did the preliminary diagnosis that was given to me was reds which is relative relative energy deprivation in sports. It's like a a sex neutral form of the female athlete triad where women have um changes in their periods um low bone density um and other metabolic dysfunction. So basically high level they were saying you're not eating enough so your body isn't able to support bone maintenance and that's why your bone density is going down. Now, if I had an eating disorder, that would kind of make sense. However, there were some holes in the story, at least as I saw it, bearing in mind at this point in time, you know, I'm like a well, it started when I was a a high school senior, and then this is going through when I'm a sophomore in college. So, I'm quite young, but even then, I'm like, look, I can do a PubMed search of literature. First of all, my BMI is normal. It's 21. My testosterone is normal. My thyroid is normal. I have no signs in my lab work or clinically that I'm undereating. I can also tell you as a human being like I'm not undereating my calories. I'll finish a run and chug a jar of Nutella. Now doctors don't always believe patients. So I think they thought maybe I was exaggerating a little bit. So you know you go to the nutritionist, they do that thing where they're like what's your weight and height? They give you your Harris Benedict formulated you know basil metabolic rate and then they say eat X Y and Z. So, the prescription for me was just to eat, uh, including lots of carbs and sugar. When I was in college, I was literally getting calls from a nutritionist saying, "Have you had your like, you know, um, your your carb snack for 10:00 a.m. between your breakfast and lunch of carbs?" And I had to be like, "Yeah, no, I have my like 10 a.m. pasta." Um, and and at this point in time, this is also when I'm first developing the the GI upset. So, I'm like, "My stomach really hurts, but yes, I'll do it. I'll be a compliant patient." Um anyway, the the the Red's diagnosis never really fit for me. Um it it just didn't make any sense. Also, just order of magnitude. Like you look at the literature and there are women with BMIs of 13 who have had those BMIs for years with better bone density than me. So like it did not explain the magnitude of the uh bone dysfunction I had. Um to kind of cut to the chase, I ended up doing some jigging digging into the uh into my genetics and I I probably what caused low bone density was a dysfunction. I have a very rare um polymorphism mutation in a gene called LRP5. And what that's predicted to do um is impair bones response to mechanical stress. So um you know like when you load a muscle, your muscle should adapt and grow. Bones work the same way. And if you have a dysfunction in that pathway, then when you run and and load your bones and have high impact activities, rather than getting stronger, your bones can not rebuild properly or even get weaker. So, I was treated for that. Um, some experimental therapies, especially given my my age. >> Do you think the marathons did? >> I do. It it makes sense with the timeline as well. I got a gene environment interaction and when I backed off the running um in addition to taking some therapies, I had improvements in my bone density. Interestingly, as an aside, um there's cortical and tbacular bone. There's like the spongy bone inside the bone and then there's the cortex of the bone. My tacular bone improved on the medications I was on. Uh my my cortical bone didn't, which is typical, until I started a ketogenic diet. >> Um I'm not sure why that is. There's now new literature. We don't need to go down the rabbit hole, but with ketones activating receptors like HCA2, which are on bones. So, there might have actually been a benefit of a ketogenic diet for certain elements of my bone density. That aside, I ended up writing a case report on that. It was my first ever first author paper on my own uh bone case, and the endocrinologists who were treating me actually uh ended up signing on to support the case. So, I quote turned them to my side. They were very open-minded. It's just a matter of like, you know, I was the one who had the time to go down the rabbit hole. So that was my first >> How old were you when you read this? >> 20, I think. I think it was 20. 20 or 21. But uh yeah, so I you know did like you know um cross species comparative analysis of like you know sequence conservation and looked at the mouse models and what human data they were on this gene and kind of just compiled what was a case report and the synthesis of the literature. Um so that was my my first experience solving my own health problems.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 6YX38hLsczY (https://youtu.be/6YX38hLsczY) ===

So by 1992 or so I'm maybe 1993 I don't know I'm maybe 230 again two pounds a year and you try low-fat diets because that was a norm. I actually met this guy lived in LA, a physical trainer who was a training one of my friends who was the single healthiest human being I'd ever seen. And he said, "Go on this low-fat diet. You'll lose six pounds in the first two weeks. You'll never, you know, regret it." So, I did. I mean, probably 20% calories from fat. There was no oils, no butter, no nothing. I mean, just grains, skinless chicken breasts, vegetables, a very dry diet, >> awful. But I lived by this for years. Okay. I lost six pounds in the first two weeks. Thought this is terrific. Looked great. And then I slowly gained two pounds back every year until by like 2000 I'm, you know, 235. And now I do Atkins as an experiment. I was writing about saturated fat and heart disease for the journal science. And I was also doing a story for discover on um the mathematics of the stock market. As a freelancer, you had to do you always had multiple stories at work. So I go up to MIT to interview this guy who runs the uh laboratory of financial engineering for the discover story. And then what he's trying to do is figure out whether traders like Warren Buffett are >> brilliant or just the tale of the distribution of being very lucky, >> you know, like poker players. I mean, it's going to be a this distribution of luck. And there are going to be people just look brilliant, but they've really just been lucky all those years. >> And how do you tell them apart? You have to be able to, you know, assess what the distribution looks like and then try to figure out, you know, how far away from the norm Buffett is. What can I really how much can I really explain his benefit from by his intellect? And so we start talking about good science and bad science. And I tell him about the piece I'm doing for Science magazine on dietary fat and heart disease. And he says, "Oh, if you're writing about fat, you got to try Atkins." He's Asian-American. He said, "Look, I did Atkins. I lost." He said, "My collaborator was at Wharton. His father did Atkins and lost 200 lb." So, I tried it. I lost 40 pounds effortlessly. And he said, "Basically, I just stopped eating rice." So, at this point, I lived in LA. I had no I wasn't married. I didn't have children. My mother had passed away, my father had passed away. It's like I if I kill myself doing Atkins, my cats are going to be homeless. But other than that, I'll be it's not not a great. >> So I did it and lost 25 pounds effortlessly in like six weeks. >> And you were literally low fat right up until you started. >> Right up until I started. I mean, I still have the instruction. I ate the same thing every day. I'd buy pasta for lunch and I'd eat I'd look and I'd say, "God, it's 800 calories of pasta I got to eat to be satisfied and then I would put fresh salsa on it." Because fresh salsa has no fat and it's just vegetables and is there oil and salsa? I don't even think so. Um, same thing every day for years and years and years. And again, you don't really know. Maybe this is maybe it's working and I'd be 270 if I didn't eat it. There's no way to tell. Um, but Atkins, boom, I'm living in LA. I'm working out an hour a day. It's like I'm running six miles or rollerblading 20 miles or, you know, this is doing these famous sand dunes. And um, my weight is just going up. And then you do this diet and you seemingly get to eat as much as you want. There's a chain of um Argentine restaurants in LA or there used to be I don't know if it's still there, Gaucho Grill, and it's where screenwriters could go and eat meaty diets and afford it. Um and I'd go with my friends and they'd get the skinless chicken breasts and the salad and I'd get this appetizer melted proolone cheese with sausage and then a steak and and I'd say this is my, you know, my health food. My because I was joking. I had no idea what was going to happen to my heart or anything like that, but it's like the weight just went away. It was an experience that was definitely informed my thinking. I mean, if I had done Atkins and had a heart attack, that would have affected my thinking. If I'd done Atkins and lost nothing, that would have affected my thinking. The fact that I had had such a remarkable experience informed my perspective so that I was open to the clinical trials that also replicated my experience and other people. Um the uh it was an experience I could have because I was overweight. Then people can't have that experience. So that experience I could have that could open my mind to the idea that and because I seemed to be eating more than ever. I had been on a diet my whole adult life. I mean ever since football ended. Um I knew what it was like to lose weight by calorie restriction. I used to joke when I lived in New York I would do this on occasions. I was working at Discover Magazine, which in Rockefeller Center in Manhattan, and I'd go on these, you know, I'd restrict calories to try and get my weight back down. And I'd go out to lunch with my friends and I'd get like, we'd be sitting in some, you know, Midtown diner, and I'd get a scoop of chicken salad on lettuce and that would be my lunch. And then I'd be staring at someone else's plate, like the woman sitting at the table next to me, until they would go, she would go, "Do you want it?" And it's like, "I'm sorry. I'm sorry." I mean, I know what it's like to have continuous thoughts of food, intrusive thoughts of food, cuz that's was life for me as an adult on a calorie restricted diet. It's entirely different on Atkins. I mean, aside from the fact I'm not ordering the, you know, an ice cream scoop full of chicken salad, I'm getting the biggest steaks they have and I'm losing weight. And with this provolone sausage appetizer that you know I I used to joke I mean I expected to die of a heart attack any second but as an experiment it was invaluable in teaching me what was you know to there was it's a different phenomena than losing weight by calorie restriction. But if I argue that to an energy balance people or anyone who says the key to weight loss is losing weight is eating less, it's like they're not just not going to believe me. And then the world is full of people like my buddy Peter who now says the key to weight loss is eating less. And I think it's like are you crazy? You did this too.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: M951byL_2fo (https://youtu.be/M951byL_2fo) ===

Unfortunately, the world that we're living in now where I'm sure both you and I, even when we're trying to have just a genuine scientific discussion, both of us are already aware that we're now walking in an area of landmines when talking about treatment, right? And the irony is I was bringing this up with a lot of proddl folks or I should say proled lowering folks. I'm saying you realize that right now probably the best evidence for say statin therapy might exist in the millu of these large metas that can better isolate the exact time for which they're most efficacious. The problem is is that the existing model, the existing business model wants to wrap in everything >> such that it actually even dilutes when the benefit is. So the N&T of being like whatever it is 127 it's possible and I absolutely want to be a good scientist to say there actually might be a group that you you narrow narrow down and find actually it's something more like you know 12 or 15 in which case if that's my family member I want them to have it at that time if they have that exact context right but what is the data that exists today that's taken metabolically healthy folks with high LDL and seen what the development of atheroscerosis is. Hint hint, so far it's ours. We're the only one that's looking, we're the only group that's so far looking at folks with skyhigh levels of LDL, but otherwise no impairment of existing metabolic health or uh lipid, you know, things like genetic familial hyper cholesterolmia, anything along those lines. And I just I I wish that we didn't have to be worried about the landmines around us to >> that's unfortunately that's and I don't mean to interrupt but I I think that so I started in in clinical medicine in 1997. I became a nurse practitioner in 2000. So I was an ER nurse in city Baltimore then became a nurse practitioner. Worked solely in cardiology for 16 years. the things that I saw evolving at that time. So, we're talking late 1990s into the 2000s up until 2016. People are so afraid of being sued. >> Yeah, >> we are so afraid of being sued. I remember having conversations with my colleagues about statins in particular because I way ahead of the curve started kind of questioning some things. I I was taking care of an NIH researcher who's absolutely lovely. And she was the first person who really opened up my eyes and said, "You need to look at the research because I will never take a statin and here are the five reasons why and here's the research." And everyone kept labeling her non-compliant, non-compliant, non-compliant. And so I went and did the due diligence. And the next time she came in, I said, "I can't say this, but I'm going to say this. I 100% understand what you're saying and I applaud you for having the gumption to stand up for yourself. And I said, "This is going to change how I manage and treat patients." And so I got in trouble for lowering statin doses when their total cholesterol was under a hundred. Can you imagine how much sex hormones you're making when your cholesterol, total cholesterol is under 100 and all these patients are on erectile dysfunction drugs? No wonder. No wonder. or questioning why we needed to be so subversive about giving everyone a statin. I'm like, wait a minute. Then I remember the study came out before I left this cardiology group about Lipiore and the association with diabetes, especially in women. And I was told to shut my mouth. Don't talk about it. Tell them it's highly unlikely they're ever going to develop diabetes. I said, "Wait a minute. I'm looking at this research. I'm looking at it specifically for women. And if you're a woman in on a statin, you are much more likely to develop diabetes. And it's mechanistically this is how it happens. And then I was told jokingly, we used to talk, I used to say, we need to have jokingly Xanax in the water supply because everyone was anxious. And I said that kind of jokingly. Well, that then turned into a colleague saying to me, we need to have a statin in the water supply because no one no one will get heart disease. And I remember thinking to myself, I was talking in the context of anxiety and now you're talking and you know Xanax and bzzoazipines are not benign, but in the context of dealing with an anxious patient and then you're talking about you'd love to have everyone on statins because then no one would develop heart disease. And I thought to myself, I was like, this is one of many reasons I'm so tired of writing prescriptions and one of many reasons why I left, you know, traditional alopathic medicine in 2016. So to your point when we're talking about primary prevention that's for those people who have not yet developed disease versus secondary prevention when I had patients who had myocardial infuctions and heart attacks and bad strokes and then it becomes a little bit more of a sticky wicket to have that conversation but there are so many other drugs than just statins and that's the thing that I think for so many people a lot of these internal medicine individuals are still just reflexively offering only that as an option to treat lipids when there's a lot of other things that can be done even starting with lifestyle measures. >> Well, all the default assumption should always be every intervention comes with trade-offs. We just don't know what the trade-offs are. So, you want to make the proper costbenefit analysis. Okay. So, what is that for metabolically healthy people? What is the cost benefit? I I'm gonna go ahead and mention something that literally came up this morning and it's because we're on the subject anyway. So, what the heck? I'll just do this. In a Facebook group that we run, somebody had come to ask for advice and I got their permission to share this knowing you and I were going to be chatting, but I'm anonymizing everything except for two key numbers. They were asking for advice on how to get their daughter's LDL lower. It was 137. I'm not going to say what the daughter's ages, but I I will say that they're uh a minor. And >> oh, >> and uh it's because it needs to it needs to according to the pediatrician be under 110. As it turns out, through conversations with others, they do this wellness check now every year starting at age 10. And yes, if the the lipids are part of the wellness check blood work, and if they have an LDL above 110, as in the case of this pediatrician, they're recommending that she see a cardiologist and potentially go on a statin. >> This is an otherwise healthy Yes, child. Everything that they said about the child, normal BMI, same thing, good HDL, good triglycerides, nothing apparently wrong save the LDL of 137. And this is, by the way, this is also one of those moments where if if you've seen 1% of the the experiments I do that Nick Norwitz does as well, etc., At a minimum, at a minimum, you have to know right now just how how dynamic lipids are. So, for example, if she was on a lower carb diet, I would I would immediately want to say, "Hey, when did you get this? >> Where was she in her cycle?" If she's even got a cycle, >> that too. That too. >> Again, manrain, right? You zeroed in on exactly what I need to start having an instinct for. >> Um, exactly. That the cycle is going to make a difference as well on the lipids. And I and I man, >> I'm trying to I'm trying to restrain myself to say what I really want to say, Dave. Yeah. About about that pediatrician. First of all, an otherwise healthy pre-teen or teen to justify they need lab work every year, unless there's something else going on like they've got an autoimmune condition or there's some other variable they're watching really quickly seems excessive. That's number one. Number two, I think the guidelines are that you are supposed to check a lipid panel. I don't know if it's by age five or by age 10. Have at least checked it. And that's to screen for some of those severe lipid anomalies that are uh that are inherited. Beyond that, I don't understand the utility of first of all checking that yearly and then to suggest to the parent that an LDL of 137 is something to worry about. It makes me wonder if this pediatrician needs to go back to medical school. >> No, it's a statewide policy. >> No. >> Yeah. And get this. >> According according to the poster, >> I don't know any states that are doing that. I I'm just curious. Yeah. And and the poster said what I probably would say as a parent, which is, hey, I, as an adult, can push back on my doctor. >> Correct? >> I'm scared to death of a doctor telling me what's appropriate for my child and then me pushing back and possibly getting authorities of some kind, some something involved to suggest in any way that I may not be a caring and considerate parent. >> I I think I I mean, obviously, I don't I don't I'm not aware. Obviously, this could be a state that I'm unaware of, but I do know in the state that I live in, the great state of Virginia, um, and I say the great state of Virginia because I love where I live. But the point I'm trying to make is that any well-meaning internal medicine doc, pediatrician, nurse practitioner, PA would not question a parent asking why would what would be the necessity of putting a teenager, an otherwise metabolically healthy child on a drug that has profound net impact on I mean, you think about uh your your frontal lobe is not fully developed till you're 25. I think we have to be incredibly cautious with chronic drug therapy in individuals that are still growing. And and I I I guess I'm I'm completely taken aback as a parent because I'm so careful and protective and I'm so glad that this this person asked this question in your group because how many other people out there would have just said, "Oh, okay. Statin therapy lowers cholesterol and that's a good thing." But this isn't someone who conceivably is either actively in puberty, clearly is not fully is not a fully formed adult yet. Their brains are not fully are not fully evolved. You think about yes, there's a separate cholesterol mechanism in the brain than there is in the peripheral body. But we know all statins cross the bloodb brain barrier, every one of them. I mean, I I could get on a soap box. Like, I'm I'm trying to be restrained because I it's deeply troubling that this is becoming a policy. This is exactly where I think parents need to respectfully ask for justification and make sure they are fully informed about every drug side effect because statins are not drugs that don't have side effects. And some of them are significant. We worry about the myalgas, all the muscle achiness, and yes, that's bothersome, but I worry a hell of a lot more about the neurocognitive effects of statins. Those are the things that that that make me nervous because I prescribed them for over 16 years. And I would say like humbly, it was it was uh conventional evidence-based medical therapy, and that was what I was held to. But I think about this retrospectively now and I I I say, you know, no better, do better. And that's why these conversations are so important. >> I um I feel like you should just be able to just simply ask, can I see the data? >> Yeah. >> Like just that simple, right? If if this is a new policy to get children to consider being on statin therapy. >> And if it's just screening, that's one thing. Just to screen for some of the genetic lipid anomalies, that makes sense. I I for sure like if there's if there's genetic tests that you could find out sooner if somebody has for example homozygous FH I I'm all for that. That would be great because that that actually is a dysfunction in lipid metabolism as well as really all of your cells that are nucleated >> with things like receptor binding and so forth. That's a big deal. Yeah.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: dhcEffO_IXU (https://youtu.be/dhcEffO_IXU) ===

This is one of the things I did want to talk to you about though. I'm kind of glad you brought this up. >> You and I are public figures. >> People hold us up to some degree of th this is this is I think a struggle a lot of people in the space of nutrition and fitness deal with which is that you're wanting to be a good example for others. you care a lot when people are reaching out to you and saying, you know, you've changed my life. Your advice has been great, right? But I have I have two dimensions. One dimension on the public side, I actually would probably be a lot more open about the foods I eat. And I have said in podcast several times before, I bounce between keto and low carb. I'm typically low carb, but sometimes I'm not fully low carb, right? And when I'm not, it's usually not foods I would brag about, right? But the other dimension that I'm struggling with that's a real big one is that I have family members that are very severely type 2 diabetic. And I'm in a bit of a tugofwar with the more challenged cases wanting to talk them into being lower carb because I believe that that's the success that that's the the pathway that they need. And therefore, as a public figure, I have a tough time with not sharing it because I'm worried so much about the general public seeing it. I'm worried about it getting back to those folks. even though I know I metabolize it better than they do, but these these dimensions of difficulty I think a lot of people don't realize we struggle with in addition to that doesn't doesn't mean that there's a right way to handle it per se, but you're exactly right and this is one of the reasons I wanted to do this podcast is I want to get back to a place where I can be a little bit more authentic and that I can be more open and that I I'm hoping for the same from the guests, you know, that that we can find ways to discuss more what it is that we struggle with. >> Well, and I think it's important because when you have a face-to-face conversation with a podcast guest is much more intimate than it is when you do it over Zoom. Like, let's be clear, >> 100%. >> Um, that's number one. And number two, I think that as hard as it is for us to show that vulnerable vulnerable vulnerability side of ourselves, I can tell you that personally. So I I mentioned I've been trying to put on five pounds of muscle, which as a woman in in menopause is like an act of Congress. Even with hormone replacement therapy, even with doing strength training, all these things, it has been challenging. And so I had to say to my community and I had a whole conversation with my team. And I said, "My platform over the past 5 years has largely been speaking publicly about intermittent fasting. Now, I'm going to say to my followers, I still believe in the value of fasting. I fervently believe in the value of digestive rest." However, for me personally, at this time in my life, I'm doing a lot less fasting because I need to put muscle on. The first time I said that on a podcast, I told my team, I'm waiting for the hate. I automatically, that's where my brain went. People are going to hate this. they're going to be upset with me. It was exactly the contrary. People were like, I so respect I get chills thinking about this. I so respect the fact that you are sharing openly and transparently what you are doing differently because oh my gosh, I feel completely the same way. Or someone else would say, I respect that so much because it means when you come on and talk about something, it's so much more authentic. Like there are people out there who are so afraid to move out between the line. They don't color outside the lines. I color outside the lines because I'm I'm a person that tends to be flexible. I understand the value of sharing so transparently because I really do care about my community. I care about the the lives that I've impacted. And it's not just women, it's also men because they share that with me. So I think when we are fearful of sharing something about ourselves that maybe we're like I don't know if my community is going to like seeing that or maybe it'll just validate for them like I had the same issue. I was wondering if this was the right decision for me. I used to be very low carb for a long time. I'm very lean for being a 53y old woman. And so I like to share the fact first of all that's my age. Second of all >> speak for a gajillion people that you did not all look like a 53y old woman. Um, and I'm and I'm pretty lean. So, for me, like I didn't have to be this protracted, longstanding process of being low carb all the time and self- flagagillating when I ate higher carb. I've come to realize like I actually do well with fruit. I can eat just about any kind of fruit. Uh, except a plantain, which is sad, but that's a whole separate conversation. But I think for each one of us, it's like let's not be rigid. Let's color outside the lines. Let's make sure we show that with our communities because it makes us relatable and I know your community members and your subscribers. I know they know you care, but sometimes when we show the messy ugly stuff, people appreciate that. >> Well, they they do because they're do they're doing it anyway. diet. This is what, by the way, this is another reason why I get a bit frustrated with the diet space is how many people do you know, for real, who've been on the exact same diet for even five years. Five. And we hear all the time, oh, I've been on X diet my whole life. And I No, >> you're not. >> And in my mind, yeah, I'm thinking I just don't believe you. I'm sorry. I don't I think that I think that there are certain cuisines of a given region that may be common place, but as far as somebody being on a on an extremely strictly distinctive diet that could be easily quantified and understood. No, people experiment with diet all the time. A lot of times they're introduced to new foods through friends. They travel and they try something there and then they find out that they like something. there's some new product that's introduced to them from a friend or family that's now a new sauce that they like to use that got them into this other kind that's humans that I I've yet to so yes there's a bunch of people who who for sure like us might be thinking boy I wish I just had both the time and the interest in making all my food from scratch like your parents putting in that you know that level of effort because I'm pretty sure it would be a lot better for my health, >> but I'm kind of working with what I've got. And can I at least keep improving or at least stay if I'm if I'm feeling good about my metabolic health right now, at least stay stable to where I'm at, right? So, let me volunteer. Like, you know, we've opened the box. I drink a lot of diet soda, right? I had a year and a half where I had only water. I was very proud of that. COVID starts and I won't go into all the details but there was a little bit more to the calculus than that but I've always had a sweet tooth and I thought oh you know what actually what I can do is while we're traveling because we were traveling around the world for nine weeks because I know I can't carry around Lily's chocolates everywhere keep it in constant supply my one sweetness is I'll allow diet sodas to get back into my life right so it gets back into my life and I had a difficult time getting fully off of it. And in truth, I'm still not fully off it. I have a lot more electrolyte drinks, but the difference is is is my big push for this year is I want to just have no aspartame. So, I have Soda Stream like behind me in the kitchen right now, sucralose, but that has hardly any impact on it. It's different for different people, but for me, it has hardly any impact on my glucose levels. And for me, that's my one vice is I seem to not be able to get away from something sweet in my life every day. And that's a component that may just always have to be there. Now, I I genuinely don't have sweetened drinks. It's usually some version of a diet drink, right? I know that there are some people in the space who say diet drink or you know some artificial sweeteners are worse than uh sugar. For me though, I'm I'm coming from a pre-diabetic context >> and I intend to not actually I I intend to never really have sugary drinks, me personally, but um it's how I manage for the most part and it's kind of my one vice for which I can get kind of a leadin to the other healthier habits I think that I have with food otherwise. >> I think I think diet soda is relatively like so benign. I have a very healthy 55-year-old husband and his like great advice is diet Pepsi. And so I jokingly said to him one day I was in the grocery store and he doesn't normally buy it to have at home but if we go to go to a restaurant sometimes if he's not having an alcoholic beverage he'll have a Diet Pepsi and I bought him the little cans of Diet Pepsi. Do you know that like made his weak because he was like I'm going to stretch that little you know that little packet of diet teeny Diet Pepsis. He said it just makes me happy. There's something about the effervescence and the taste and I was like more power to you if that makes you happy. That to me seems so benign. And this is where like the rigid dogmatism and the shame around food I think is problematic. And and I say this in the most loving way possible because I don't think people do it intentionally. When they start pointing fingers it's like oh that's terrible. But in the grand in the grand scheme of things, Dave, probably 90% of your lifestyle is, you know, nutrient-dense, whole foods, protein centric. >> No. >> Okay, we'll just Okay, so we'll just say whatever% way better than it used to be. Yes, >> but but I don't I don't know if I hit the 90%. >> Okay, so we'll say 80%. But the point being, >> I think if you are metabolically healthy, you have a bit more wigworm. It's around like sugarless gum. There was someone who was fixated on the fact that occasionally I will chew sugarless gum. And I said, I think it's from years of working in the hospital because I I oftentimes couldn't stop to eat anything, let alone drink anything because you don't have to go to the bathroom. And I'd be rounding on patients. So I would chew sugarless gum because it also camouflaged bad patient breath. That was one of the things that I remember it was like really good for camouflaging that as I was having conversations with patients and someone was, you know, doing >> a great pro trip. >> Yeah. I mean, it was it works wonders because then also a lot of patients and other healthc care providers, frankly, have like stale coffee breath and you're talking to them and I was like, I'm chewing the gum, I don't have to smell any of that. But the whole shame and blame game around nutrient whether nutrient density, whether it's around specific foods. I mean, uh, I'll call this person out because I I think he can be obnoxious. Um, there is a carnivore person, not Sean Baker, who is lovely, um, who goes a little bit on like the extreme about everything. And I think it was even toilet paper was one of the things he was ranting about one day. And I thought to myself, I if if we already have a population of people that feel in many ways badly about themselves because they're obese, overweight, have binge eating, can't lose the weight, they've gone through this vicious yo-yo dieting cycle, and then you're going to beat them up because they have a diet soda, or they choose to have sugarless gum, or they choose to have Lily's Chocolate, which by the way, I take with me everywhere. Like when I go on business trips, I bring a like a little bar. >> It's great, isn't it? Yes, I do. And I don't feel any guilt. So, my kids laugh about it. They're like, we went to Bise for a week and my kids were like, "How much Lily's dark chocolate are you taking with you?" I was like, "Two bricks." Cuz I have one little, you know, like one little square each like, you know, the little row. I have one every day. Um, but you know, all these people that do all this shame and blame beam around nutrition, they're part of the problem. I really think that for the bulk of us, it's it's well-intentioned information that we're sharing, but I think there are just as many other people that try to be divisive and critical, and they contribute to that vicious shame. And and I think I can only really speak to to women specifically on this topic. As a middle-aged woman, middle-aged women are trying really hard. They already are beating themselves up because their bodies are doing all sorts of weird things that they never everything that used to work no longer works. And then they've got some fit influencer who's 25 that has 6% body fat that's a dude telling them that, you know, wagging his finger and telling them that don't, you know, no diet soda, you know, the the devil is the sugarless gum and god forbid you have a piece of Lily's dark chocolate. I think that it it it makes me wonder if we are in an alternative universe. It's like what is going on? >> You know, I this is I'm so this is another topic. So, at the very beginning,

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: niGQUzlY43g (https://youtu.be/niGQUzlY43g) ===

So did you citizeni science foundation pay for clary to perform their analysis? >> We paid for the study out of lungquist. >> Okay. Yeah, I understand. >> And um I I will state that we have offered to pay for a uh a quality control pass at full price. >> Okay. So clearly clearly didn't reach a payment of a contract. Let's just say that there's we we've offered to pay for everything. >> Okay. >> There there's nothing for which there was a payment not you know payment asked for that's not been received. >> Okay. How did you ensure that the participants maintained their same lifestyle interventions or for example their adherence to a ketogenic diet throughout the year? >> I'm glad you asked. There's this great company called Keto Mojo. They're cutting edge. They're awesome and I love them and they're great people. But also without I literally was just telling the story yesterday. I approached them and said, "Hey, would you mind if we use your Keto Mojo devices to assure that there's been adherence throughout the study?" And so they provided the product with no cost to us for all 100 of our participants for all 365 days. >> Wow. [Applause] Hey Dave, thanks thanks for the talk as always. Um, one of the push backs or one of the concerns when the initial data was presented was looking at those comparison studies like you showed and like you gave warning that is not a true comparison, but that this study shows that this group is by definition high risk because the PAV was higher than some of those listed. So that was one of the concerns. Now we have data that shows differently but you asked the question specifically does this mean lean mass hyperresponders are low risk which the answer was as a group no not by definition but I think it's important to ask the correlary does this study by definition mean that lean mass hyperresponders are high risk because that's a lot of the concern that was expressed in social media so how would you answer that question >> that no if you arm twist either you or me because I'm sure you would do the same thing I would do bread, >> you would go, "Yeah, if you're if you're going to hold me down and say as a group," you know, just like you would, let me use another example, just like you would say, uh, a group of people with a BMI between 20 and 24. When you hear that, you go, you know, state data that shows an association will show associatively that's a lower risk group than average, right? And we could say the same thing about lean mass hypers responders depending on you know whether you're uh depending on which data set you're looking at from within our study but particularly all of the ones outside of clearly then it suggests as a group they are not high risk however appropriately that should always be followed up with but is there a subset that we did find that had risk yes just as I would expect in any other sizable population especially at middle age >> and that's why I think that waterfall plot you showed is so so important to see so many that didn't change and then some that progressed and some that regressed and so people have to understand it's not a homogeneous population but certainly not by definition high-risisk and certainly not by definition low risk. So thank you for pointing that out. >> I'll just add one more thing which is just that if there's anything this study has really drilled into me is the importance of imaging. Mhm. >> I just I I'm just amazed that there's not at least a lot more interest either in imaging overall or in particular CAC. There's um 30 years ago, it's in our documentary. Spoiler alert, 30 years ago, uh Dr. Agston was working with Dr. Budof on the CAC and they were saying then this is going to become the mammogram of the heart. And that was 30 years ago. And the data has only gotten better and our data further supports that. It's very prognostic. You can't beat the actual detection of the disease itself. Would you agree? >> Absolutely. Absolutely. And and so important to define how are we detecting the disease and what what level of certainty because plaque analysis is fantastic. It's it's a degree of analysis of plaque we've never seen before, but it's also kind of in its infancy. So you could have, you know, an analysis of the same scan five different times and you're going to get five different results with some degree of variation. I think we have to recognize that as well. That is a powerful technique and so cool to see the images, but not without some degree of variability. And that I think this study really helps emphasize that as well. >> Dave, thank you. Thank you for this work. It's very important about imaging. I wholeheartedly agree and we'll hear a little bit more about that on Sunday. I couldn't agree more. And what I took away from those waterfall plots, some regression, some progression, no association with APOB or LDLC is that we do not know at the population level who gets aththerosclerosis and why it gets worse. Does that seem like a reasonable statement? >> Absolutely. Therefore, personalization of care driven by imaging might be one appropriate strategy for individuals going forward. Would you agree? >> So, this is this is where I have to give you a little bit of an unsatisfying answer, which is uh if there's anything that's been reinforced over the last several months, it's that I was right to constantly push back on what might sound like I'm giving advice and always pass the ball off to the clinicians. Now, do I think all of my clinician buddies would completely agree with you? I think that yes, >> excellent. Stay tuned. >> I I appreciate the imaging and it's great, but where does functional testing fit into this because what I'm constantly worried about is um overt treatment by someone treating a scan. >> Oh, I I definitely think there's always that consideration, right? It's we've learned this over and over again in that and I think you and I have had conversations about this. You can um this is where things like RCTs are great because if they're done properly, they're taking into account things like detection leading to overt treatment that might actually be a net detriment, right? Um that said, it's just my opinion. My opinion right now is that there's way too little imaging done by people who already have an existing reason to consider getting it. That's just my opinion. >> I'd like to propose a thought experiment which will be unpopular but I think is important for the sake of intellectual honesty. Let's think about a different paradigm and talk about hormone sensitive cancers. Right? Estrogen does not cause breast cancer. Testosterone does not cause prostate cancer. And yet, hormone therapy to reduce that hormonal impact on sensitive cancer cells has been used quite successfully in the treatment of those sensitive malignancies for years and years. That is subject to some controversy. Let me be very clear about that. Not everybody agrees that we should suppress those hormones, but it is currently the prevailing wisdom that if you have a hormone sensitive breast cancer, even though estrogen didn't cause it, we should suppress your estrogen for a period of time. Similarly with prostate cancer. Could we imagine something similar with respect to oxidized lipids and progression and treatment of plaque versus causation and formation of plaque? uh we could in fact let me see if I can repeat this back in a way that codifies the intellectual part which is um could we imagine that even if there's not an association with LDL and APOB and the progression of plaque in our population those who do have higher plaque might have a benefit if they take action to lower their LDL or APOB would that be a fair statement right >> that's my question >> and to be a good scientist I don't have an answer to that question but do I think it's possible possible. It's possible, right? This is it's a different study and it's one that we may already have some amount of data that may come into play now because we know some of the participants are taking action which incident incidentally let's have an intellectual honest moment for everybody else by the way which is a lot of people who are pushing back on us even studying these folks I feel like they should acknowledge that while of course I'm going to tout the regression found in people with homozygous FH levels. I'm likewise just including even in this presentation emphasizing the subset that there is a subset that gets discovered. So many people who follow my work and say, "Oh, I'm a lean mass hyper responder, therefore I'm at low risk." I'll stand up here on the stage and go, "That's not the end of the story." my physician friends would say maybe consider looking at the imaging because if the imaging is there then yes actually there's a lot of data that precedes ours that shows if there's if there's like a zero CAC then there really isn't a lot of prognostic capability um on LDL in that case but if there is maybe we just need more data for it >> yeah I'm going to break the rules and comment on on her comment first which was a fantastic thought experiment and a wonderful question and and I think the answer has to be this study didn't look at that. So we have to be careful what we're asking a study to show and I think that's part of the social media reaction that people are are trying to pull more results out of this study than it's designed to show and we have to be very careful about that. I'm also breaking the rules to to comment on on the other comment about this the picture of the image of regression and how it was so hard to see. And I love that you commented on that because I think that really highlights there wasn't much plaque there and the change in plaque wasn't a ton. If you've seen a thousands of these scans, you can say, "Yeah, there was some calcified plaque there. There was some nine calcified plaque there. And then on the the repeat scan, the the uh dimension of the area of plaque was lower and the thickness was a little lower, but it takes a trained eye. And that shows that it wasn't dramatic, right? That that you're starting with a low level of plaque and the change is low. And that really, I think, just highlights why these scans can be a little troubling if you're putting too much faith on the millimeter of change without allowing for some degree of variation. and you brought that up in in in your talk, but I just loved how that comment really sort of emphasized that. So, >> no. And by the way, Brett, just to capitalize on your earlier point, which I'm sure you would agree with, I would certainly welcome a study where we do RCT folks who are lean mass hyperponders but with high levels of plaque. I would love to see that. I don't you know I can't say that I know how IRB will work with that but it would be very interesting if it was for example a number of people who are already non-compliant who would agree to be compliant at least in a randomization to find out one direction or the other. I think that would be an amazing study. >> Yeah. So everybody who is really pushing back against this study and what it does and doesn't show needs to step up to the plate and say okay well let's do the next study to really help answer the question. [Applause] I guess the um back to the imaging where when you do the imaging starting with just a CAC and get a zero score that's something you can bank on. >> I mean I would say it's very prognostic. I wouldn't say when you say bank on it makes it sound as if that's the end of the discussion. But see it it is possible to have a CAC of zero and that there is still soft plaque or for that matter that it's you know it's rare but there can even be an occlusion. So it's not the end of this story. It's just a very good it's a very good indicator. >> Incredibly better than the calculators for whether or not you need a statin. But it's when you get the high score that's where you get the um sort of you create anxiety for everybody. But I keep testing Dave, was exercise type in frequency initially tracked or recorded at all over the course of the study? And you do do you consider this to be a potential factor in this particular cohort because they were lean mass? >> No, it wasn't tracked. But it's interesting. I do want to take this moment to emphasize something. I do have concerns and mentioned this early on with the original team is my concern was that we were going to have some number of folks who are overex exercisers. I am of the belief that there is a basis behind people who do a lot of exercise do not prioritize recovery because they're just literally addicted to it. Who are the examples we hear of where they're like literally in a marathon and they drop dead and everyone's like, "Wow, why do they have such advanced heart disease? They were as healthy as an ox." I think a lot of times what we find or at least what I think we're going to find is that they're not prioritizing recovery enough so that their vasculature can heal and I think that that's a very big deal and I was worried because of our population bleed mass hyperponders includes a lot of people who are you know intense like me you know >> thank you very much >> I'm just curious because this gets a lot of um mention with statins and other approaches, vitamin K2. Um did you see a change in calcification of any of these plaques? And if so, like which group did you see it in? >> Yes. In other words, did we see like calcification go down in the quantitative analyses? >> Either direct either direction. >> Uh yes. Well, in both directions. Yeah. There's I can't speak as much to the granular levels, but for example, when I was showing total plaque volume, it's the combination of both. And um yeah, there's there's um one graph I wasn't able to show is on the non-calcified plaque volume for the clearly analysis, there was just one person that had regression and it was 4.5 millime cubed. But the reason it didn't show up in the total plaque volume is even though they had a regression of 4.5, a non-calified plaque, their calcified plaque went up 10 times that went up 45, which again, yeah, I just I'll just say I I like the other data sets to look at a bit more now that we have them. That's all I'll say. >> Yeah. >> Oh, higher up. Thanks. Hey Dave. Yeah. >> Uh, for the people within the cohort that saw regression, are there any plans to kind of dig into what they were doing differently than other members of the cohort to try to figure out why they saw the regression? I know people are really curious about the possibility of plaque regression and what they can do to encourage it. >> It's absolutely the number one question and everyone everyone's like, "Oh, what's what is it? What's the key?" And I'm going to be uh a little bit of a wet blanket for a moment. I'm I'm more interested, me personally, at when we get the third set of scans. Depending on how many people we can re-recruit, I don't know that number yet. But when we have three sets of scans, especially when the third set is four or five years out from the first scan, I'm going to just frankly probably like that data more for the very reasons I was describing. I'm worried about how much a regression or progression is actually noise and that we can differentiate a trajectory when we can see like an actual trajectory then it changes the dynamic. So yes, we'll we'll almost certainly do sub analyses on this and if we have the data out, I'm sure many other people will as well. Um, but that said, I'll admit something. It's it's difficult for me unless you at least put a cap on the degree of regression because I think a lot of the lower levels of regression I'm going to have a little more difficulty trusting that's all. >> Great. Thank you. Um since everything is about the numbers uh at the beginning of the study, the end of the study, were the numbers counted by humans or machines and do we need to worry about inter or intra operator variability in the sense of counting technique and counting differences at the beginning and the end? Did the same humans review the studies at the end? or if it's AI, is AI going to get a different opinion as it evolves since we don't really control how it learns from group think? Uh, and there's so much group think that influences AI. So, how are you are you worried about counting techniques? >> I'm way too worried about it. Listen, think think about this study uh in comparison to other studies. We did something other studies don't do. We flew them all to the same place. I wanted that. I went I it was extra expense. It was lots of logistics. Lots of logistics by the Citizen Science Foundation to get all of the bookings together to fly everybody. On top of that, we did something no other imaging study does. Some idiot who spearheaded this was like, I want them fasted overnight and doing it in roughly the same window of time in the morning. What OCD engineer would press for that? also that I could better control those variables. But then even then I learned more about imaging and I found out that actually of course the dosage on the contrast eye and the timing on the contrast eye is relevant right sometimes to slow their heartbeat they'll give you something right so such as a beta blocker but I find out from some imaging experts that sometimes that can be its own independent confounder and then naturally I'm going wait then when do we get it? Um, at first there was discussion on getting the blood work after the contrast die is applied since you already have ran the vein and I was the jerk that made our participants get blood work independently before that because we don't know how much the contrast die has an impact on it. These are just the ones I know of. Right? So your concern on the inner operative uh inner operation variability is a valid one. It's one that we should be able to talk about. But that's also why blinding is so important. I want to take as much blind I want to have as much blinding as possible so that uh everybody who's doing their piece in this is not aware of the data outside of it especially because there is already so much opinion that's connected to this field. >> My question relates to the quality control aspects both um undone and done. So you mentioned that you asked for a double blind um review of the data by clearly and I was wondering if you could share specifically what protocol either was requested or desired and relate that to the semi-quantitative analysis done by Dr. Bud off and his team in terms of and I'm this might be in the paper so I'm sorry if I I asking something that's already out there um the number of independent reads on each scan by Dr. Budaf and his team and the qualifications of those radiologists. >> I actually can't speak to the second part. Um it's a good question. Uh this is something you could Dr. Budov's actually pretty responsive. you could probably write him directly and ask this question. Um, I didn't have that one. I knew it was somewhat internal with regard to clearly. Um, Dr. Budaf was interviewed by Jyn Eisenhart for our documentary and and shared in the interview that there there was a lab mistake in spite of it being his strict instruction that what they would receive, what clearly would receive would be fully blinded. Uh, unfortunately in the metadata did include dates. So it could be determined which was the first and second scan um from the receiving party. Now I'll emphasize that doesn't mean we know it was acted on or made use of or whatever. But that said it's again it's my preference that it be fully blinded. And that's why the quality control pass we wanted it to to not be like that for it to be fully blinded so that we could be sure that you know if there was any other components involved that we could feel confident that it was that. And that's what the hard flow data was. Hardflow data was fully blinded, cross entity blinded, which I appreciated. >> So the you can't share what protocol you requested from clearly in terms of the the QC that you wanted them to run, the double blind protocol that you wanted them to run. >> I can't because there's uh people paid a lot of money per hour that probably don't want me to. >> Understood. >> Yeah. I'm not an imaging specialist, but I'm I'm in the space. Um, and my medical center is soon to acquire clearly, and there's a lot of buzz around it. Clearly, I think has quite a number of peer-reviewed publications highlighting their performance versus other technologies like IVIS and near infrared spectroscopy. So if we're to believe that clearly is less accurate, can you speak to what it is about that technology that is creating problems relative why there was such a big difference between the imaging technologies? I I can't because like you I'm not in the space. I all I can say is we we don't know what happened with that data set. I'm I'm not even of the opinion that necessarily there's a problem with their imaging. Like if I'm if I was talking to an investor right now or senior management right now, I would say listen, I don't I don't have any reason to think that there's a problem with the clearly uh imaging algorithm overall. Um outside of this data set that I think we should care about, we should we should at least confirm. We should at least confirm or disisconfirm if these things that are different than every other study that's out there as well as all of the independent analyses that are within our own study. We should at least confirm if it makes sense. And uh that's why I wish, you know, again, like I said in the slide, I'm still holding out hope that they'll do what I think is the best, which would be to just go ahead and do a quality control pass. It's not It doesn't It's not like the sample gets, you know, uh used and goes away, right? >> Yeah. >> Thanks. >> Sure.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: aJobOSRdIOM (https://youtu.be/aJobOSRdIOM) ===

[Applause] How's everyone doing this morning? Can you hear me? All right. >> All right. I actually like when it's early in the morning because I can really see who the supporters are, right? Uh I want to get to my slides, but I see over here on the what starts now? You can go ahead and move me over to the uh slide deck. Okay, first and foremost, um, when it moves forward. There we go. Here are my conflicts. And, uh, here's a slide that keeps getting updated here and there. I don't want to spend too much time on it. By now, you guys know me. I'm I'm an engineer. I founded the Citizen Science Foundation. I began this journey in 2015 when I saw my own cholesterols rise substantially going on a ketogenic diet. started blogging on it on the cholesterolcode.com which eventually ended up becoming a documentary. More on that in a bit. But basically what we're all here for is the study ketoCTA. And this is just going to be a very fast overview. But what we did is we took 100 individuals showing increased cholesterol levels after adopting keto. the phrase that I termed myself in 2017 called lean mass hyperponder. They were near these cut points, it was an LDL cholesterol of 190 or higher, HDL of 60 or higher, and triglycerides of 80 and below. And they were followed for one year using CT angography. So one baseline scan at day zero, another scan roughly uh 365 days later for each participant. All 200 of those scans were completed in February of 2024. Now, before we go any further, I want everyone to keep this at the center of your mind at all times. The scans are the scans are the scans. The CT scans themselves are the ultimate source of the data. Now, how do we get data from these scans? Well, there's two general methods that are the most used. One is known as a semi-quantitative analysis that makes use of expert blinded readers like say Dr. Budof who use software for which they go through and have a scoring system and that gives us a semi-quantitative data set. The second major category is known as quantitative analysis and this makes use of computer automation. So things like AI and algorithms help create a quantitative data set. And so now I want to take you through the timeline with these two types in mind. And I'm going to keep these CT scans in a batch at the top. So again, you keep in mind at all times that they're all looking at the same 200 scans. So in early 2024 is when the semi-quantitative analysis was completed for these 200 scans. And that's what we built the documentary around. This is uh me interviewing Dr. Budof. It's in one of the scenes that's actually in the documentary itself. And naturally, we were pretty confident that like other imaging studies, we were going to see a lot of collaboration or rather a correlation between the semiquantitative and the quantitative. Well, the first quantitative that was available was late 2024 and this was the clearly analysis. That's when it was completed. But to be fair, while there was a lot that they had in common when it came in, I did have some concerns as that there was some divergence between the semi-quantitative and this clearly analysis in several ways. That said, there were two important uh ways in which they were very much alike. They agreed. One of those is that the baseline plaque was very predictive of future plaque progression. the more plaque you had at baseline, the more likely you were to see a greater increase and the degree of the increase was very relevant. But on top of that, there was no association between either LDL cholesterol or apo B in either of these two data sets. So that said, I still pressed a bit on the issues that didn't make sense to me around the Clearly data set, but the team pushed back and made some good points such as the fact that these two major findings are valid and worth publication either way. Adrien Sodto will be up not too long after this, and we'll make the same point. You still publish the data that you have regardless of where you're at with it. Bottom line is we still had these two things that they shared in common which is why it ended up being in the title of the paper. But importantly, I'm the funer and as the fun it's inappropriate for me to press these questions too far. So there's a degree with which I can ask. But I can't I can't go back to the team and say keep reworking this data until it makes sense to me the engineer who's not the imaging expert, who's not the statistician and so forth. I would be just as critical of a funer who was pressing a team for something that might not look as attractive to them, which is what I knew I'd be criticized for because I would criticize somebody for it. Regardless though, I knew I would eventually get the raw data in hand at the completion of the paper and so I could look a little bit closer into it myself. Finally, April 7th comes around and we publish this paper on these two analyses. Now, critics were in high gear and offered some critiques on the presentation and the social media rollout. And for what it's worth, I could agree with a lot of these critiques. I chat about it at length in a couple interviews. In fact, one of those interviews is with Chris McCascal, which I recommend you see. It's it's up on my YouTube channel. But while we're waiting, it's important to reassert that importantly these two analyses are what the April 7th paper is based on. But neither are the pre-specified methodology. ME metis Qangio which was coming later is the prespecified methodology to match with the prespecified endpoint. So Qangio the problem with it is it's going to take the longest. It takes two to three hours per scan. It's quite labor intensive. Now once more these are three different analyses once all of these are together. They're looking at the same 200 scans. 100 participants, one at baseline and one at followup. But as this paper comes out, our study was getting a lot of attention. However, many prominent critics on social media seemed largely disengaged with several aspects, several aspects of the study. For one, the plaque beginning plaque was largely considered irrelevant. The semiquantitative data was just ignored entirely even after we released it in its raw form. The clearly quantitative analysis was embraced but was now being treated as though it was the pre prespecified methodology not Qangio. Regardless though, regardless, as the team thought even before this would get published, the entire lack of association with either LDL or APOB and plaque progression was unmistakable, which is why these data were at odds with the lipid hypothesis, at least for our cohort and at least at this point in time. But then came a new limited contrast argument which emerged and many detractors quickly embraced across the spectrum. Basically, it's saying that everyone had high LDL and therefore the association doesn't matter. So, I want to take you through this. This is an example straight from Twitter and they use this image. They said, I think this image helps to visualize why a lack of contrast in the exposure is most likely the reason why you, meaning us, failed to find a significant association. And honestly, honestly, I assumed anyone well-versed in lipid hypothesis and our data had who had actually looked through the paper wouldn't be adopting the saturation position. I was wrong. Was dead wrong. A lot of these folks, including uh these three fine gentlemen, who by the way, I have I have a good relationship, a good rapport with all of them. I've chatted I've had many good conversations both publicly and privately with all three. But all three of them adopted the position. In fact, I want to carry some of the quotes from these same videos. This is Lane Norton. He says, "If you are going to do an association study, a proper association study, you need a proper dosage, meaning you need a varying dosage. All of these people had high LDL and high APOB." Additionally, this is from Simon Hill. He he asks, "Was there enough variability in Apo exposure to detect a dose response relationship?" And he later says, "So they compared people with high APOB to other people with high APOB." And Gil says, "The study does not look at going from normal cholesterol to high." Once again, kind of illustrating the range. Everybody had high cholesterol to begin with. That's the inclusion criteria. So this is a conceptual graph that I'm throwing in front of you right now. And you can see kind of what comes to mind when you hear everybody had high LDL in APO B. You're probably thinking something like this, right? Uh let me see if I can get this laser working. There we go. All right. You're probably thinking because here's the LDL cholesterol going from one end to the other and here's the mean, right? 253. And this would be like a standard deviation of 10. Standard deviation of 10. So it's just like this this range of between 44 uh sorry between uh 22 or 226 milligrams per deciliter and 271. So when you're thinking of it this way then actually uh I would agree I would agree if it was actually this narrow range it would make a lot of sense and that's what comes to mind when you're hearing they all had high LDL. Okay. But our spread was already in table one of our paper. Let me take you to table one of our paper. This is it. This is the LDL cholesterol. Now, I know a lot of people are not necessarily going to be stats wiz stats wizzes in here, but for those who are, I'm I'm looking at you, Finny, back there. I know that you're familiar with what standard deviation is. We have a standard deviation of 84 mg per deciliter. We have an interquartile range of 202 to 308 milligrams per deciliter. That means 50% are between that 25% on the or all the way on the other side. 25% on the other side of that. So what does that mean? Well, that means when you really look at the spread, I'm going to show you all of the first LDL cholesterol taken from our participant population. Now in the same graph, you ready? It looks like this. Now I I have lines up here for what the optimal amount is. Uh that's green for 100 milligrams per deciliter. You see that the average we have 130. And uh sorry it's not very I got this in the previous people were telling me the yellow doesn't show up very well but that's hetererozygous FH. And that is by the way our our eligibility. So you might be surprised to find that we did have 17 participants that once they got their blood work up when coming to the facility 17 were actually below our eligibility. But again, the eligibility is what gets you in the door. It doesn't mean that that's what it is at the intake. So, some people may have been eligible five months before they then came and got their first scan, but many of them were going by, of course, the uh the first blood work that was taken. Regardless, that's a feature, not a bug. We have a wider spectrum of possible LDL. Look over here across the red side on the homozygous FH. We have six participants that have an LDL cholesterol of 400 or higher. Homozygous FH, as Brown and Goldstein's work will tell you, is a one ina million possibility. One in a million. So, we don't just have spread. I'm I'm going to make a very audacious statement here. Are you guys ready for this? Here we go. I'm going to say that I'm confident we have the largest spread of LDL cholesterol of any prospective imaging study ever conducted. Now you guys all have phones. If anybody's interested, I want you to go ahead and look up right now on Google or Chat GBT. I want you to find any prospective imaging study that has a spread of 542 milligrams per deciliter going from 49 at the lowest to 591 at the highest. It is not a limited spread at all. It's not a limited contrast at all. We have, of course, we have a varying dose. It's gigantic. Now, I need to bring this back to the lipid hypothesis itself. Even if you don't recognize the title of this paper, you no doubt have seen this graph. This is considered the Bible of modern-day lipidology. This is the 2017 European Atheroscerosis Society's consensus statement on LDL. And I'm just just going to quote a number of the quotes from this paper. the probability of intimal retention of LDL leading to an initiation and progression of development of atheroscerotic plaque increases in a dose dependent manner. Here's another one where it's talking about hetererozygous FH and homozygous FH that it's proportional to both the absolute magnitude and duration of exposure to elevated LDL cholesterol. And you can read the other quotes. I'm just going to break it down. It's just I'm just going to put it plainly. The dose dependent log linear relationship between LDL apo and atheroscerosis is not a movable goalpost. It is the lipid hypothesis. Another frequent claim is that these are the healthiest people we can find. And make no mistake, I do think our participants are healthier than average. But it's worth making sure everybody understands. To be sure, a number of the participants have publicly shared adopting keto to deal with various health issues like diabetes, obesity, hypertension, etc. before entering the study. Our lean mass hypersponder Facebook group is full of people who've gone on this journey, right? Not everybody started as an athlete, decided to go on keto and just really likes eating only meat. And they were all happening to be the participants of our study, right? This was shared with permission. This is from Susan Brunie who was a COSI citizen science speaker and she talks about her journey of fighting obesity and how ultimately she found keto became not only a lean mass hypers responder but a participant in our study. Now naturally for somebody who's been on her life journey we would want to caution that she may have more health risk to be moderate about to be considerate of. Some had existing high coronary artery calcification, just no diagnosis for cardiovascular disease. For example, this is a Facebook post. I I blurred out all the details, but this is from one year before the study began where a future participant shared they had a CAC in the mid-300s. I know a constant rumor that keeps getting floated around was that we didn't let anybody in who reported having a high CAC. We absolutely have participants who've reported having a high CAC coming into our study. Again, we wanted to get within a certain spectrum of those that would likely be healthy, but not the healthiest that we could find. There wasn't that me there wasn't that degree of thumbs on scales, just to put it plainly. And don't forget, our eligibility criteria is more permissive than many realized. Just as I mentioned, some folks, even with the last blood work that they gave us, may have creeped in the direction opposite what we imagined. But in many cases, we for example had an A1C that didn't go to 5.7. It went to under six. Therefore, people could be up to 5.9. Well, we had 14 participants who had a hemoglobin of A1C of 5.7 to 6.1 and 12 who had glucose fasting glucose of 100 to 116 and 15 with an HSCRP of 1.05 to 1.8. These aren't numbers they supplied us. They were taken there at Lquist, right? So, why wasn't I more actively debating this online? Why wasn't I discussing this? Why were my appearances winding down on podcasts while likewise disappearing on social media? The answer lies in what was happening behind the scenes and I'm now going to finally share it. I want to talk about challenges with the Clearly analysis. So taking you back to the timeline on April 18th, 11 days after we got the April 7th paper, Lungquist delivered the raw anonymized data to the Citizen Science Foundation. This is the thing I talked about earlier in the talk that I would get the raw anonymized data and then I could look a little bit closer myself. And as I feared, there were several issues I found concerning with the Clearly data set. I brought this to the attention of Lquist and Clearly right away. And then in a Zoom meeting in the next week with the core team on April 24th, I presented these issues to the CMO of Clearly at the time who is also a co-author on our paper. He agreed on the importance of having their platform run a blinded quality control pass to confirm or disisconfirm these results. However, what followed did surprise us. The previous commitment was disregarded and clearly asserted they would not follow through on the blinded quality control pass. It was at that point that we knew we needed to engage another third party service that also offered AI guided quantitative analysis for CTA scans. Enter heartflow. This is why no one had heard about heart flow until we quite literally were having uh the data captured and then Dr. Budof did one talk which I posted but that's all that was posted on it. Now the heartflow platform as one of the founders would point out I have to concede I didn't know it very well. He said actually they have a much larger footprint than clearly it's just that clearly gets a lot more press. Um they have over 600 peer-reviewed publications behind them. They have over 400,000 400,000 patients served. And uh I liked it because they were willing to work with us on making sure that the uh scans that they got were fully blinded. So that we got a fully blinded analysis. So we got to add a fourth a fourth analysis. Now this is why I was engaging less and less on the study until all the data were in until all four analyses were completed. Under normal circumstances where two analyses disagreed with each other, especially when they're not the prespecified methodology, it would be welcome to add a third to break the tie. But these aren't normal circumstances. We knew detractors of our research were quite attached to the clearly analysis, and we wanted to have an additional blinded independent analysis of these same 200 scans to include. Now, I want to pull this graph up for you because now it's like another lens, right? Hopefully, by this point, there's no way you're going to mistake the fact that all of these analyses are looking at the same scans. And now we have four four total. And I and I just want to take a moment to to really emphasize an important point. We're not just talking about analyses as though you can just run them on a computer. We're talking actually about multiple teams and I'm not kidding when I say this, hundreds of thousands of dollars, hundreds of thousands of dollars in detection. So this is and and Adrian will get to go into this a bit more. This is in fact very record-breaking levels of multiple independent analyses for an imaging study. You guys ready to see some of the data? Are you sure? Okay. Well, listen. The first thing I want to do is I want to jump straight into the prespecified endpoint which is the percent change in non-calified plaque volume. And before I do, I got to give that uh warning. This is preliminary of course and therefore treat as preliminary. Understand it hasn't undergone peer review or final publication. So it should be considered should not be considered as conclusive or fully validated. All right. This is the non-calcified plaque volume percentage change and it's the mean percent change. Now, spoiler alert, halfway into this study, I realized why this wasn't good. And that's because halfway into the study is when Adrien Sodto came on board and explained the problem with having a poolled mean percent change, a relative change. And that is part of why you might be wondering how all three of these can be so different from each other. you see clearly is what it was from before. It's 80.6% mean average increase whereas heart flow is uh an increase of 6.3% whereas Qangio is plus 39.8%. But if there's anything I hope we've been learning, especially in nutrition, there's a problem with looking at only relative, right? Are we interested in absolute change? Of course, we're interested in absolute change. So, put a pin in this until you see Adrien Sodto's talk, which will be a little bit later in this conference. What is the absolute change comparison? The actual quantifiable plaque, the median absolute change in non-calcified plaque volume. You already know this number. If you've been paying attention to the April 7th paper, it's 18.8. But what happened with heart flow and qangio? Well, they're about less than a third each. It's at 5.5 mm cubed. And with Qangia, it's 5.6 mm cubed. They're both low and they're in close agreement with each other. What about total plaque volume? This includes not just the non-calcified plaque, but the calcified plaque as well. Once again, they are both low and they are in close agreement with each other. Now, percent atheroma volume is something that I'm somewhat new to, but it's where the industry had been going as it was letting go of a lot of things that were in the quantitative side. Uh, this was also something that was focused on quite a bit appropriately, I think, because it was something we reported on and they clearly had us at a 0.8 8 cohortwide, but for both heart flow and Qangio, it's actually quite low. And once again, it was in close agreement. Now, at the time that the April 7th paper came out, there was a lot of attention on our supplemental supplemental table one. And for what it's worth, uh, the heart flow at PAV of 0.3, Qangia of 0.2 two are are are at or lower than all of our reference studies from the original supplemental table one of the April 7th paper. And if I could just have a moment of intellectually intellectual honesty that I would like to push out for everybody both on the supporter and the detractor side and so forth. No question these numbers look good when we have a horseshoes and hand grenades comparison with these other studies. So you might think this would be a cause to do a bunch of victory laps, but I would actually caution against that because just like when it might not have looked as good when looking only at the Clearly analysis and now that we have multiple independent analyses that are agreeing with each other and not with clearly that show that it's low when doing comparison with other studies that have different populations, different circumstances, it's not a true control. I would caution against us doing it just as much as I would caution against detractors doing it. So while I will show this comparison to update the record, I do want to say appropriately we should want controls whether they're attached to controls or matched controls. So two important observations again these are just the type line top lines but first the relative change in non-calified plaque volume is very different between all three of these quantitative analyses but in absolute in absolute terms the absolute change in plaque is in general agreement between heart flow and Qangio analyses but not clearly now I want to talk about what to me is the star of the show it's plaque regression These are the waterfall uh graphs for both heart flow and qangio and total plaque volume. So this is both non-calified plaque and calcified plaque. You can see that on the left side we have regression on both ends. But to be sure I'm going to be talking a little bit more in depth about that in a moment. At the same time, it's worth noting and should be called out that we also have some that are progressors on the right side. So, just as I would expect with any population that's middle-aged, generally pretty healthy, we have a mix, but we do have regression that was already showing up at these levels. Now, these were all just graphs to me initially, right? And this includes non-calcified plaque volume which also has just about as many regressors. It has uh 33 regressors um for heart flow and 15 for qangio. But once again these were all just graphs. They were graphs until last month when it became a lot more real to me. And that's when I got to be there when Dr. Buda for the first time after getting the heart flow data in isolated a number of the uh individuals for heart flow and this one in particular and took a close look and confirmed confirmed that there in fact was plaque regression. Seeing these side by side it was it was a big moment for me. It was I think this was a point where it became quite visceral. Now going back to when I had this graph. This is one of the things that popped out and I can't I'm not going to take the whole talk to discuss the problems I saw with the clearly data but I do want to tell you one of the first moments one of the first moments where when I had the raw data I was starting to question things and that was this graph. It was baseline CAC right uh against total plaque volume change. So the change in total plaque volume, what stood out to me while I was just sitting on this for months was how on the left side the CAC of zero, everybody had only positive only a positive increase in plaque. That was it. There was only positive. There was no negative. There was not one negative total plaque volume me uh participant in the entire data set. But this especially stood out when you're looking all the way over here to the left. This is the zero line. There's not one dot that's below the zero line. Once we had heart flow and Qangio, then I saw more of what I was expecting, a wobble. We see it going up. We seeing it going also down. Now, does that give me a lot of comfort that there's a whole lot of regression? Well, I already know in advance a lot of these people have very low levels of plaque to begin with. Their baseline plaque is so low. And so a change that's also low is very difficult to see. Right? So some of you may know where I'm going, which is that if you're identifying where these arrows land and one of the bottom arrow is right there at the baseline. Well, on this end we see the wobble. On this end we don't. And that should be a red flag for anyone familiar with statistics and measurement error. And I'm going to prove this to you. You don't even need to be a stats wiz, right? I'm gonna I'm gonna demonstrate this with a bathroom scale. I have my handy assistant over here. This is a bathroom scale, right? Okay. I already looked and I can tell you that it's about plus or minus a quart of a pound, which is pretty accurate, right? Okay. But I do have something in my pocket that weighs something. So, I'm going to put this down here. I'm going to step on it. And I'm not going to tell you the measurement, but I'm going to pick this up and step on it again. Right now, I objectively weigh more. You you agree, right? I weigh more. Okay. So, I've showed you two phases. Let's say I repeat this 100 times, right? The same thing I just did. Would anybody would like to take me up on a bet of $10,000 that the second scan will never be lower than the first? No. No. Nobody's taking me up on that. You're You don't even need to be in advanced statistics. Oh, you Okay. You You don't even need to be in advanced statistics. This is pretty serious because all you had to do was to know that the accuracy level of this is limited. It's below a noise floor and at that point you expect noise. And I'm telling you, you can believe in the lipid hypothesis. You can believe all of our participants had an increase in plaque. But as the plaque levels are so low that it's difficult to read, can you believe it would only show in one direction? That's difficult. And that's why it stood out to me. And that's why I was so happy to not just get one, but two quantitative analyses that would show indeed what I was expecting, that there would be a wobble at these levels. It was already so implausible for me to believe that not one single participant would have their plaque at least show up at a lower level out of standard error. So here are my final thoughts on clearly and regression takes us the full loop because while there are a lot of issues that I was showing them back in that meeting I was discussing on the 24th I wanted to find one thing that even a lay audience can understand and that's that's in the topic of regression. So, let me just lay this down. This can boil down to one straightforward qualifier. Every imaging study, fact check me on this one as well. Every imaging study I've reviewed that reports total plaque volume has shown some degree of regression, even in placebo groups. Again, it may not even be true regression. It might just be part of standard error. in our three independent CT analyses outside of clearly within our study all using the exact same scans from the keto study we consistently observed regression in a subset of patients Dr. Budof's team and Dr. Budof himself have independently verified regression in a subset of these patients. So put simply, accepting the Clearly analysis as definitive means accepting a result showing zero instances of regression across the entire data set. an outcome not only at odds with every independent analysis of these same scans, but also statistically improbable and unprecedented in any sizable imaging study. I am hopeful clearly will complete a blinded quality control review to confirm or disisconfirm the anomalies in their data set as I presented to you here today. So conclusion, do we have clear evidence of plaque regression in our data? Yes, we do. Not only do we have agreement on these across, not only do we have agreement on this across semiquantitative heart flow and metiscqio analysis, but we also have direct verification by the expert readers of Lquist and Dr. Budof himself. Multiple individuals exhibiting LDL cholesterol levels comparable to familial hyper cholesterolmia achieve verified regression in total plaque volume through serial CT and geography. And let me restate this again. By the way, on average there was an increase in plaque cohort wide. There was an increase in plaque which we would expect with any middle-aged population. So, while I'm definitely highlighting the regression, I do want to make sure it comes in a balanced message. Does this mean does this regression that I've showed you, does it mean that being a lean mass hyper responder guarantees you're at a low risk of aththeroscerotic cardiovascular disease? Do me a favor and prove our critics wrong by giving the appropriate answer to this. What's the correct answer? >> No. Correct. It's no. The answer is no. Listen, just like vegans or athletes or those with naturally low LDL cholesterol, a subset exists with higher progression of athoscotic cardiovascular disease. And we don't have all the answers as to why this exists in our cohort as well. We've seen it. Okay. So, do these data show any association of LDL or APOB with either the presentation or progression of plaque? What's your answer? No, no. If you are a stats wiz, please look at this R squared, right? Versus Apo B versus LDL cholesterol. It's so low. And again, I want to be a good scientist. I want to say it's possible that once we do a third set of scans at a later point in time that some association appears. But do we have it now? We don't. We don't have it. We're not even close to having it. Across every analysis on this cohort, there is no association of LDL or APOB with the presentation or progression of plaque. Full stop. What's next? Okay. Well, the study extension, which I just mentioned, and the details for the keto, they're nearly complete. We needed to get past this hump. If you are a previous participant of keto, you will be contacted soon by a study coordinator on this extension. And I can't say how soon. We have to get all the details worked out. The triad study funding is nearly complete. I got permission to hint at this that we have one final COI conference to hopefully close the gap on this very ambitious research effort. More details will be shared on that soon. If you if you guys don't mind if I just take a second um before I complete this talk, this actually is an important milestone I've I've honestly been waiting for since I was on Houston stage in October of 2019 announcing this as an idea. Right? So, it's been almost six years and uh while we have all of this ahead, um this is kind of where we turn in the final, right? We have one paper left that's going to tie all of this together for the current scope, but this is that scope that was pitched on that Houston stage. So, I just really want to I really want to thank all of you for all of your support for making this happen. It's just been tremendous. Okay, very special thanks to all contributors to the Citizen Science Foundation, all of my amazing co-authors for previous and coming papers, and to my collaborators, my very special collaborators, Nick Norwitz. Nick, you're killing it out there. Adrian, can't wait to see your talk. I love you all. Thank you so much for all your support in making this happen. [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: XHWOqh8jmeM (https://youtu.be/XHWOqh8jmeM) ===

All right. Uh, hello everybody. I'm Matthew Budof. I'm a professor of medicine at the UCLA School of Medicine and endowed chair of preventive cardiology here at the Lungquist Institute in Torrance, California, where I'm presenting today on our results of our our uh heart flow analysis of the uh carbohydrate restricted uh induced elevations in LDL cholesterol and atherosclerosis or what we call the keto trial. So there is no conflicts of interest to declare in reference to this work and funding has been provided by the Citizen Science Foundation. So just uh real briefly um while most individuals who adopt a carbohydrate restricted ketogenic diet for obesity or diabetes exhibit general improvements in lipid parameters LDL, HDL, and triglycerides. There is a subgroup that's been termed the lean mass hyper respponders that exhibit extreme increases in LDL cholesterol. So the aim of this study was to prospectively evaluate the plaque progression over the course of one year in 100 metabolically healthy lean mass hyperresponders and near lean mass hyperresponders um on a ketogenic diet with an LDL greater than 190 milligrams per deciliter. So these patients had to have LDLs above 190 but previous before the ketogenic diet having normal LDL cholesterol. So we know this was an induced elevation in LDL. They had to have an HDL above 60 milligrams per deciliter and triglycerides below 80 milligrams per deciliter. They all underwent a cardiac ctangio and were followed for one year on the diet and then reimaged with CTNography um at uh one year. They all followed a ketogenic diet and compliance was 100% among the 100 patients usually less than 30 grams a day um uh of carbohydrates sufficient to induce an elevation in circulating ketone bodies which we were uh measuring and confirmed in the participants. The primary prespecified endpoint of the trial is percent change in total non-calified coronary plaque volume and the secondary endpoint was low attenuation plaque. So we have made uh measures using uh three different measurements to date. Um and we're awaiting a final prespecified medu uh uh method using what's called the medisqangio software. And as just as background, the Medisqio software has been used in all prospective studies of cardiac CTNography save I think one ever published around the world. So this is the gold standard and we are still awaiting those final results. We have presented data on the semi-quantitative plaque changes or what we call the total plaque score and I'm going to show you some of those results. We have also previously published a sub study on APOB and its relationship to plaque progression using the Clearly analysis, a company out of Denver, Colorado. And due to discordance of our clearly results with our with our blinded total plaque score results, we evaluated heart flow plaque data, a third software from our our heart flow substudy uh to look at non-calcified plaque volume and low attenuation plaque. Uh this is the heart flow plaque uh tool validation study. They used intravascular ultrasound or a literally an invasive catheter put into the coronary arteries to measure how much plaque is present using our our our clinical gold standard IVIS and we and compared it to their AI uh software to see how concordant it was with IVIS data. IVIS historically has been around for about 30 years and has been used before we had cardiac CT in all studies of plaque progression. So it is definitely the gold standard and you can see excellent concordance between the heart flow plaque tool and intravascular ultrasound with a total plaque volume uh R value of 0.91 and overall 95% agreement with IVIS to quantify and characterize coronary plaque. This is the only product with prospective blinded randomized control data looking at AI measured plaque and intravascular ultrasound plaque. So um this is the and there's you can note the the two publications at the bottom if you want to uh get further detail. So this was our total plaque score or what we call our semi-quantitative measurements. These were done in a blinded fashion by uh only certified expert readers in my lab. Um completely blinded to first scan, second scan as far as order of the scan. And what we saw was in blue patients who were progressors. There were about 36 patients who progressed uh based on the semi-quantitative scores. There are about um 58 that were unchanged and about six that had showed uh regression. So this is what we call a waterfall plot. And you can see so it's about 60% um um no change or or regression and 40% progression. Now this tool is not as sensitive as the AI because we can't notice small changes in plaque progression. But when we compared it to our heart flow non-calcified plaque volume changes, the waterfall plots actually look quite similar. Here we see about a 5050 uh uh change. where about 50% of the participants had some measurable progression defined as any plaque more than more than at baseline. Um, and you can see that in purple and you can see in the the light purple those patients who had no change or slight regression and on the far left you can see regressors and on the far right you can see progressors. So these two curves look fairly similar. Discordant from that was our clearly data. This was the first data we we published. Um this was uh looking at the the rate of progressors or non-progressors. And you can see here 93 out of 95 measured subjects demonstrated progression with no patients demonstrating regression. So this waterfall plot looked much different than the waterfall plot from heart flow and looked much different from what we expected based on our first analysis. our total plaque score blinded reads. So can we see plaque regression in keto? Uh you can measure these plaque. This is a sample image. You can see in yellow fibro fatty plaque and in red uh the red arrow pointing to the to the low attenuation plaque depicted in blue. And in followup, we did see some patients who showed some regression that this patient had less uh fibro fatty plaque measurable in the same vessel in the same view um over time. Uh so we definitely saw some patients who both visually had regression and by total plaque score had regression. How did that play out in the uh comparison with the other measures? Well, there were six uh total plaque score semi-quantitative patients who had regression and blinded analysis. Of those five were analyzable by heart flow. Uh there were five patients overall in the entire trial that either had an uninterpretable scan by the heart flow analysis at baseline or at followup. Um so they couldn't analyze changes in five patients. But of the 95 patients um of these six semi-quantitative five of them were analyzable by heart flow and four out of five showed regression. So concordance in 80% of those that we saw with total plaque score and um with heart flow uh changes. The clearly data showed zero of those patients had regression. So a little bit different from both the heart flow analysis and the total plaque score analysis. What about low attenuation plaque? Low attenuation plaque is considered vulnerable plaque. This is the worst of the worst. These are been associated with more events and there are a number of studies, a large number of studies that have demonstrated that a high volume of low attenuation plaque is more associated with more cardiovascular events. The most famous of those trials is called the Scottart trial, which followed over 4,000 patients now for up to over 10 years of followup. In this study, only seven patients had low attenuation plaque detectable at baseline or about 7.4% and at followup only one person uh had development of LAP low attenuation plaque and we ended up with a prevalence of 8.4% 4% or eight out of 95 patients at follow-up. So, we did not see a significant change in the presence or or progression of low attenuation plaque, which was very reassuring from a clinical standpoint. What about those patients with uh scores of zero? We know historically that patients with scores of zero have very low risk of developing plaque. We often tell them they should not come back for repeat scans in short intervals. This is a data from Jim Min uh uh who's now actually the CEO of Clearly published this paper on the warranty period for coronary calcium and said that coronary calcium is very unlikely to develop within the next four years in those patients who have a score of zero or again what we call the power of zero. He wrote among pre prop among propensity scored matched individuals with a calcium score greater than zero versus calcium score of zero baseline calcium score of zero emerg as the strongest predictor of calcium progression. The hazard ratio is actually 12.5. He went on to say in individuals with a calcium score of zero conversion to a calcium score greater than zero is nonlinear and occurs at very low frequency before four years. So he said that no clinical factor seems to mandate earlier repeat CAC testing. So we would expect in those patients with calcium scores of zero to have very low or no plaque progression and in those patients with more plaque we would expect calcium progression. In this study calcification begat more calcification. So we broke down the data first. This is the overall data with clearly the overall non-calcified plaque volume percentage change. You can see among the 91 patients uh 80% ch increase in in mean change in non-calified plaque volume with hard flow that number was 7%. If we look at the patients who had calcium score of zero on the left, you can see those patients with a calcium score of zero in red with clearly had a 113% increase in non-calified plaque volume. If you compare Clearly to Clearly, those patients with calcium score greater than zero only had a 38% increase in plaque. So again, that goes against all of our pre-specified knowledge and all of our pre-specified uh analyses that we anticipated where plaque would be get plaque where there'd be more plaque in those patients who had existing plaque and that's been shown in many many trials including Dr. M's earlier study. If you compare that to the heart flow data in purple, you can see that those patients with a calcium score of zero had uh slight regression overall, but certainly much less change overall in those patients. And on the right, the calcium score greater than zero had more progression, which is what we would anticipate that patients with existing plaque would have more plaque progression and patients with zero should have very little change in their plaque volumes. You'll notice that the numbers don't quite uh add up to uh 95 because we had to exclude patients in both groups that had a zero score in either the first or second scan because we couldn't calculate percent non-calified plaque volume if one of those two values ended up being zero. So in context of this new data, we're still awaiting the formal prespecified analysis of the metis Qangio study. As I mentioned before, it's been used in all prior CTA studies of plaque progression as the primary endpoint. Um, and it's the anticipated presentation of this data will be at the symposium for for metabolic health in August 2025 in San Diego, California. So in conclusion, after a mean duration of one year with a carbohydrate restricted induced elevation of LDL of about 272 mean LDL cholesterol, a metabolically healthy cohort of patients with the ketogenic diet had mild plaque progression over one year. And some patients exhibited regression using this heart flow plaque analysis and again using our semi-quantitative total plaque score. Low attenuation plaque presence the presence of vulnerable plaque was uncommon and did not significantly increase over the course of one year. Further analysis with the heart flow FFRCT flow metric is also going to be reported and the primary endpoint of the trial will be published shortly. Thank you very much for your attention. I'll be glad to answer any questions.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ZrH8pqTiyoc (https://youtu.be/ZrH8pqTiyoc) ===

Okay. Right. Our next speaker, a senior software engineer by trade. He began his health journey in 2015. And since then, he's been a very busy bunny, I'd say, by setting up the Citizen Science Foundation, Own Your Labs, and becoming a researcher in his own right with his most recent publication. So, without further ado, please welcome to the stage Dave Feldman. Well, I'm last, but I hope I'm not least. I want to thank once again the public health collaboration for having me. And uh yes, I do have some breaking news here tonight. Let's go and get started. Um Oh, I'm going to use this too. This is my uh conflicts of interest. And uh this is my bio slide, but you guys pretty much know who I am by this point. Uh, as Sam just mentioned, I've been doing this since 2015, which is kind of crazy that it's been a decade. Uh, it feels a lot longer though if it uh if it counts. Um, let's go ahead and get to what we're all interested in, which is the keto study. This is, and I'm just going to give the quick brief overview, 100 individuals that have exhibited keto diet induced increased cholesterol levels, speci specifically LDL cholesterol of 190 milligrams per deciliter or higher. HDL cholesterol of 60 milligrams per deciliter or higher and triglycerides of 80 milligrams per deciliter or higher who were followed for one year using CT angography. All 200 scans were completed in February of 2024. And before I go any further, I want you to keep this one thing at the center of your mind at all times. The CT scans, the CT scans themselves are the ultimate source of the data. That's the core. All that matters is that these CT andoggrams were taken under proper conditions, ideally by the same scanners with the same calibrations. So long as this is always true, the only question left is how they are analyzed. And there are two general categories that are common for these analyses. This is the semicquantitative analysis which is using expert blinded readers such as our principal investigator Dr. Matthew Budof but there are many other senior readers as well and they develop what's known as a semiquantitative data set. There's also quantitative analysis which uses computer automated programmatic processes and that gives you a quantitative data set. So now let's talk about the timeline. Just a quick recap, the very first time I was able to provide some data was of the semi-quantitative nature and that was the one-year preliminary data for 64 of the initial scans. And then finally on February 8th of 2023, we had the preliminary data for the initial scans, all 100. And it did look encouraging, but we still had a lot more to go. But importantly, this is when I found out that the average age of our cohort was 55.3 years of age. This was great because with an average duration on keto of 4.5 years, with a little less than half that with detectable plaque, a little less than half of our cohort with detectable plaque and the semiquantitative analysis, we have a good pool to capture progression. Sorry, jumping ahead. This is now the match analysis by presented by Dr. Budof which took place on December 8th of 2023. This is before it was published, but you may have already seen this before. This is a box plot that actually shows on the left the Miami heart cohort, which our keto cohort was matched against the 80 that were within the age range of Miami heart. And indeed, the match had LDL cholesterol in the M Miami heart group that was less than half those of us in the uh those of ours in the keto cohort. And yet the semi-quantitative plaque analysis, particularly with total plaque score, was statistically no different with ours actually trending toward better. Then August 18th of 2024 came around and I got to present the first preliminary quantitative data that came from our analysis. This is the match analysis again, except this time we're going to be using different values than total plaque score. Now we're talking total non-calcified plaque and calcified plaque and total plaque. And sure enough, it was nearly a perfect match again. Total non-calified plaque volume for keto this time of 79 versus 79 matched cohort with Miami heart was 47.1 versus 46.9 and total plaque volume was 50.2 versus 56.4 ours trending slightly better. Now some critics brought up I thought a fairly good point which is that of the cohort on the Miami heart side a third of them were on cholesterol lowering medication. And so that left open the question was there some amount of higher cholesterol that might have been there before but that was masked with cholesterol lowering medication. Fortunately Lquist was able to do an additional subgroup analysis and this is the subset where we saw once again that total non-calified plaque volume for the 54 now matched against the exclusion of the third in Miami heart were still right next to each other with ours actually trending slightly better. But importantly, there was no statistically significant difference. So then we get to 2024, and by this point, we're now fully into the filming of the documentary. And in the course of that, I'm having regular conversations with Dr. Budof uh with the semiquantitative that I had mentioned from before. We chatted about that. Then once the longitudinal semiquantitative, which is to say all the second set of scans were in, I got to chat with him about that as well. And sure enough, the data was looking very promising. This is a screen capture of me literally from the film uh the documentary itself. Now, this red line is when something was happening behind the scenes, a bit of interest within the team, and it's when the quantitative data, the quantitative analysis for the second set of scans came back. That's what I'm going to go into right now. When I saw these first analyses uh of the longitudinal quantitative data 10 months ago, I was surprised and had several crucial questions. First, these new data were diverging in many regards from the semi-quantitative data of these same scans, which is extremely unusual in the literature. And I, you know, second, it seemed as though the lower risk groups actually had higher rates of plaque development, which is likewise extremely counter to existing research data in imaging. And I don't want to say it's universal. It's just unusual. It's very uncommon. But third, the rate of increase cohort didn't actually make sense mathematically given how rapid disease should be expected. These are a lot of the questions that I had and I really kind of want to drill into this last one for a moment. Kind of take you into my own mind here. So the baseline average median non-calified plaque volume was 44 millime cubed. But the second set of scans brought a follow-up average of non-calcified plaque at 63 millime cubed. This was for a difference of approximately 99 millimeters cubed, about 18.9 for a relative change of 43%. Now again, this is, you know, I'm not getting into the deep math here. Just right away I thought I'm not sure if that computes given all of the information we have up until this point because if you extrapolate backwards taking it 43% down down what it means is is that the average starting plaque would be 8 millime cubed which would be incredibly low for a mostly male cohort with an average age of 50.8 before becoming lean mass hack responders for the next average 4.5 years. But if you extrapolate year-over-year at 43% the average plaque at just over a decade would be 376 millimeters cubed which associates with a symptomatic cardiovascular disease. Conservatively there are at least 500 to a,000 members in our lean mass hyperresponder Facebook group of 13,500 members who have been on keto for over a decade. This includes me by the way. So again, this was just a little bit of a gut check. It it just didn't quite seem to connect for me. So the team and I had many conversations on my questions and the main points we covered were and the team brought this forward. These were all very valid points. The lower absolute plaque baseline can lead to less reliable measurements of relative change. This is just a problem with measurements overall, right? but also the cohort showed significant heterogeneity which should be emphasized instead of treating them as a homogeneous group. But third and crucially, LDL and APOB levels do not explain the increase in plaque as no correlation was found across different methods and models. And thus this was the genesis of very much the uh paper that we knew was going to be ahead. Dr. Adrian Sodto put this pretty well which is said you know at the end of the day if the data is weird doesn't matter it's the data we were able to get first you still publish it you've got to go with where the data goes so we reached an inflection point as everyone working with me knows this time as everyone working with me over this time knows this never fully settled for me this was an internal thing that I always the weirdness always was a little bit of a problem for me however when my instincts are at odds with a team, a team of experts in statistics and cardiac imaging. I'm going to generally defer to their position. And either way, I should because I cannot overly press the research team when I, Dave Feldman, represent the funer, the Citizen Science Foundation. I would be critical of any funer that kept turning back to the research team and said, "Hey, this doesn't make sense to me. keep redoing it until it looks more like something I would expect it to. So regardless, this was transient. The Citizen Science Foundation would take delivery of the anonymized data set from the Lungquist Institute at completion of the study on April 18th and so I could look further into it then and hopefully better answer my questions. So the release of the April 7th paper finally comes around and uh bottom line is we had some missteps. We didn't have the best social media roll out. It was actually a fairly uh decent test for the team. Um I discussed this quite a bit with a great interview uh with Chris McKascal. Chris uh challenged me I think uh very cordially on a lot of these and uh I recommend this if you want to get a little more into the detail. This is on my YouTube channel. Uh but April 18th rolls around and finally I now receive the anonymized data. Uh but also there's a lot of push back online and I added this this additional column here uh on common detractor assertions and you guys know me by now. I'm I'm not one to call folks out but I really do I just have to make an observation. A lot of the voices who were pouring a lot of cold water on our study for not for example having a control group it needs events imaging is not the best surrogant really got a lot more interested once the uh quantitative analysis came out um even in spite of not paying as close attention to the other data that we were reporting with the semiquantitative. So this was me um for the last two months. I was living a schizophrenic existence publicly. We're talking about the published data. But I can't talk much about the quantitative data. And at multiple points when I do, as you can see in the interviews, I often emphasize how it differs from the semiquantitative data and that I'm interested in learning more, which is absolutely true. But behind the scenes, I'm actively looking into the anonymized data that I was waiting for, digging deeper to better answer the questions I had before. So this is my deeper dive into the quantitative data. Now, what you'll find with a lot of studies like Paradigm is that the rate of increase typically correlates with baseline plaque. This is the case for example when you stratify into these you know these three categories of low burden mid burden and high burden right you would expect that those with the higher burden would have the higher rate but not only is the magnitude of R3 when you divide them in the same fashion higher but it shows that the rate of increase is inverse to the baseline plaque volume which is more suggestive of regression toward the mean. This also plays out with CAC. This was another thing that just popped out at me right away is you've probably heard of the power of zero. Like if you have a CAC of zero, it's usually a good sign. So when studies like Paradigm, evaporate, yellow, when they're stratifying for those people who have a zero CAC versus those who have a positive CAC, generally those with a positive CAC do tend to have a higher rate of plaque increase. Not with our study on the quantitative analysis. On the quantitative analysis, instead those with the CAC of zero had a much much higher rate, a much greater percent change in their total plaque volume. But there was also just some unusual patterns that I really wanted to look into a little bit closer. such as if you're looking at the semi-quantitative data or I'm sorry if you're looking at the quantitative data 44 in visit one in the visit one scan 44 of our 100 had in the total calcified plaque volume that's of the quantitative analysis not CAC the total calcified plaque volume 44 of them had a true zero in the follow-up scan 18 changed from zero to non zero of total calcified plaque volume. Now, I've looked, but I've not been able to find any. Has there been any cohort in any study that has had over 16th of its population change from non-calified to calcified status in a single year? I haven't been able to find one. There's also opposing directions in each of the analyses in the semiquantitative versus the quantitative. For example, as is typical with a lot of these imaging studies that are longitudinal, you have some regression. Maybe biological, it may be machine error, but usually at the lowest rates, you tend to see this. And sure enough, we did have six folks in our semi-quantitative analysis that showed regression and total plaque and total plaque score. Would we expect at least some of them to show the same in the quantitative? That's not the case. All six showed an increase in total plaque volume for the quantitative analysis. And it's worth noting that to date there are no published quantitative CTA studies that I've been able to find tracking total plaque volume in which not a single participant experienced plaque regression over time. Every major longitudinal study has shown some degree of individual regression even if the overall cohort trend is progression. This includes even in placebo groups. And this is where I'm going to jump over to non-calcified plaque volume which again if you separate into tertiles and uh big shout out to John Alexander by the way for uh suggesting looking at in this fashion you can see not only these different rates but what I really want to do is I want to drill in on the 10 participants with the very lowest non-calcified plaque volume in the first scan because I really want you to sit with this for a There is exactly one person who had a zero on both the first scan and on the second scan, but there are four total who had a zero on the first scan. These are the first four. So there's yet to be a green bar, but the green bar would be what their first scan is. Their first scan was a true zero in non-calified plaque volume. But the second scan for three of the four is 3.9 mm cubed, 9.2 mm cubed, and 13.6 mm cubed. Now, let me add the other six. So, the other six again, the green is the first scan, the red is the second scan, one year later. So again, these green bars don't just represent the average age of 50.8 that preceded keto. They also represent the average 4.5 years on keto with an average LDL cholesterol of 254 milligrams per deciliter. I realize I'm chatting to with an international audience. So if I'm doing my math right, it's around 6 millm moles. Not not sure though. Anthony will probably correct me wherever he's at. Altogether, the quantitative analysis for the bottom 10 participants in scan 1 has a total of 14.2 millime cubed of non-calified plaque volume. Yet for scan 2, it is a total of 69.9 millime cubed, a difference of 55.7 millime cubed, which is a nearly five times increase. Nothing like this has been seen in any other study that I'm aware of and it is in striking disagreement with our semiquantitative analysis of the same scans. I don't know that I can emphasize this strongly enough. These aren't just the intervention that just happened. This is after half a decade at being on this diet. We then see this change and these are all people of different age ranges. So, one person's in their 30s, one person's in their 60s, one person's in their 50s, and we just happen to catch them all in concert potentially with an increase. Now, real quick, I want to emphasize right in this moment that there are possible things that are worth thinking about such as COVID or COVID related activities. It's possible, right? But that said, you can understand why it is that I would be very interested and want to ask more questions. I also have an internal report which I'm not going to go into here, but I'm going to show you that I'm going to tell you that all the analysis that I've shared just now, we actually have open access data on. You can check out citizensciencefoundation.org/ ketoCTA. Now though, I can finally go into the Q angio analysis itself. Some of the breaking news that I'll have for you here. I do want to call out that the previous voices of doubt are now advocates for the clearly quantitative analysis and this has been one very interesting side effect of the clearly quantitative analysis and that the new level of engagement for our study by prominent critics of the original design. Concerns about limitations of imaging and events are required for outcome relevance that we didn't have a control group. All of these issues have given way toward a broader embrace of these data. I mean masletoough right now there's a lot more of a spotlight on our study and that can be good for the science overall but importantly a lot of folks have brought forward the reference to the original design and this was one of the places where I think we could have done better there was a pre-registered endpoint that was mostly formed under a mostly different team from earlier in the study that was with the percent change in non-calified plaque volume and that's why a lot people reference back to the original design and I think that's fair which is part of what I was uh describing in the interviews that I was in. So revisiting the original design this is from the original protocol and methods paper that the prespecified endpoint is percent change in non-calified plaque volume. Now, for what it's worth, I know if Adrien Sodto was on board at that time, he in particular would have given all of the statistical reasons why it's so bad. And I'll actually get a chance to revisit that again here pretty soon. But regardless, regardless, everyone who's brought this up is 100% right. That's something that at least we should have had uh in the discussions. It could have had better labeling with figure 1A, for example, things along those lines. But importantly importantly our prespecified method of quantitative analysis is metis Qangio. It's right there in the text and that is what we're doing right now. So these are the initial Qangio analysis of the high progressors. So to Lquist's credit, that's where they went first was those people had the highest progression because of course they're of the strongest concern. Can't emphasize this enough. These data are preliminary. Not only are they preliminary, they they literally were practically handed off to me and I've not had a chance to even do a lot of internal review. So take these with a grain of salt. We'll hopefully have a lot more for you here shortly. First, let's start with the total plaque volume in box plots. And in this case, I'm showing you the uh the median. And what's over here on the left in the light red is the clearly baseline. And in the darker red is the clearly followup. So 311.5 mm cubed versus 437.2 millime cubed. And this is for a difference of 125.8. Again, this is the median. But for the Metis Qangio, we've got 142.5 millimeters cubed to 200.9 for a difference of 58.4. I want to also do the uh mean which is 290.4 versus 398.2 for a clearly difference of about 107.8 and 141.1 versus 205.5 for a difference of 64.4. four. So, of course, this does look encouraging if the metaq angio does prove to be more accurate. Here's uh for those of you want to take a picture, here's the quick summary. Um the progression analysis I like and especially looking at it from uh the rates of difference in the the p values. But now let's go into the non-calified plaque volume. And what I'm doing is I'm sorting by baseline clearly non-calified plaque volume. So the uh lighter uh red bar which is the baseline and I'm going to now overlay the metiscq angio. So you can see in the blue bars all of the non-calcified plaque by comparison. Again this is now excluding calcified plaque. This is this is obviously very relevant uh because the absolute numbers are certainly lower. Uh all of the uh all of the bars as you can see visually are a lot smaller. But what I really appreciate is that we can kind of get a sense of who still maintains as progressors, whether or not there are people who are greater progressives and so forth. That all becomes very relevant. And what I like about this, actually I want to go back to this for a second because what I find especially interesting is that you can almost see like of 64 and 10. You can see these are still progressors. And you know, I really want to point this out real quick in case there's a lot of euphoria in the moment with regard to uh how much possibly this could be taken as good news. I'm sure my clinician research friends would say, "Hey, we're still getting to data that confirms who are progressors and who are not with greater and greater redundancy. That's a good thing." And so there's still folks in our study for which they would be interested in taking action. But at the same time, there are folks like this participant who unblinded themselves to me actually a long time ago. This is number one. In fact, I actually chatted with them recently and they were surprised because they had a total plaque score of zero in both scans. Zero total plaque score and they were surprised to find out that it's possible there clearly could be much higher and they were very interested in whether or not there was a further analysis. So having three analyses I think is going to be very useful for him. No question. Now, let's go ahead and get into deltas because the delta is ultimately bringing us all the way back to this being the uh prespecified endpoint, the non-calified plaque volume change in percentage. And if going by percent delta non-calified plaque volume for the highest progressors, we have a 47.0% under clearly quantitative analysis, but a 46.8% 8% under metis Qangio. Yet the absolute difference it's enormous at a median of 112.5 millime cubed and under clearly uh under clearly versus the 29.6 millime cubed under metis Qangio. So naturally when I was doing this calculation I was looking at it this guy popped into my head along with him saying this. Uh yeah this is exact. This is why Adrian feels like it's really not the the best marker, particularly when you're able to you're able to see with your own eyes just how heterogeneous this group is, right? I also like this. This is uh something new that I'd never seen before, but it's a great visualization of the data. And what you're doing is is you're plotting on the on one axis one form of the test and on the other axis the other form of the test. So the circles are the baseline, the squares are the followup, but from this you can tell just how much there's a skew, how much there's a skew may not be the right word, but let's just say a a drifting in one direction versus the other in the comparison between these analyses. Lastly, I just want to I want to show this real quick, which is the delta change in non-calified plaque volume with one of these quantitative analyses clearly versus the metaqangio. And this is a little bit more for the geeks. I like to see that the u the the R is just a little bit stronger even though this is a very small sample size. Um oh yes, in percent out the Roma volume. So this is the same analysis once again but now we're running it against percent atheromal volume. Uh importantly seven of the 10 still have a percent atheromaal volume of 1.0 or higher which would still be considered uh progressor. However three under the um under metuangio are not in fact um one of them one of them drops to like 0.3 I believe. So here's my final thoughts. Do you guys remember the thing I told you to keep in the middle of your head this whole time? Anyone? The scans are the scans are the scans are the scans. At the end of the day, at the end of the day, either there really is a clear and distinct difference at a high magnitude of plaque going from the first set of scans to the second where there's not. Right. But to be fair, to be fair to our friends in cardiology, especially in imaging, hearts are not static. They are conforming and there is a lot of work in trying to get to making them as carefully placed as you can get them to be able to understand the plaque that is within. So it is important to give some amount of grace to the fact that this is a difficult science to work with and I appreciate that about this process. So in my final thoughts, I've shared with you many of the challenges that I've been working through on quantitative analysis privately but haven't discussed publicly until today. Many of these issues can be easily investigated by others with our open data set. Again, my had the link up there for citizensfoundation.org. Note how these patterns differ from the literature for yourself. We're in the process of gathering the quantitative analysis for our pre-registered methodology metqangio and should have our final paper out on this soon. These scans are very labor intensive. They take three hours per scan and again by an expert team. So needless to say, we have only 10 for you now because they take so much time and effort to do, but we hope to have the remaining 90 in the near future. While these initial Q&A data for the rapid progressors look more positive, these data are preliminary and we still need to complete the remaining scans. So I want to give a very special thanks to all contributors to Citizen Science Foundation, including many of you right here. whether it's your time or your money or your support all my amazing co-authors for previous and coming papers and of course to my collaborators Nick Norwitz and Adrien Sodom. That's my talk. Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: cM0KaSp5IIE (https://youtu.be/cM0KaSp5IIE) ===

I saw you did a podcast with one of your one of the participants who was in your LMHR group. Yeah. Very sharp. Yeah. And I thought you were very heads up in that saying we made some mistakes. We want to learn from them. Yeah. But it's a good study. I mean this the data that you guys collected is important data. I don't think anybody's denying that. No. But there's a there were a lot of lessons learned. And here's here's something that you being part of a strong team before, I think you'll appreciate. I've been trying to navigate between multiple authors. Yeah. First of all, it's not just multiple authors. I always want to be a good team player. Part of being a good team player is you try to work out what you can inside the room. Mhm. Outside the room, you try to, you know, you you hopefully have agreement on where you went wrong and where you didn't. And this was sort of the first time where I think we were really tested. And there was a lack of agreement. I think internally on, you know, where we went wrong and why. And I think a big part of what needed to happen that I'm glad did happen was the joint statement. I don't know if you saw that. Yeah. With Dr. Bud off and myself that was really important because that was that was a point where we we could have a large agreement among the teams and like listen we need to get a few things straight. But the other thing was is after that I said okay I I need to I need to engage on this being frankly just a mistake. It's not just a mistake it's a big mistake and I don't want I don't want it to be some predetermined video. I don't want it to be, you know, somebody who's in the friendly. In fact, in particular, I want to speak to the community. Derry Sharp is easily one of the most prolific, if not the most prolific person within the Lee Masses responder Facebook group. And so I told him, "Yeah, I want you to come on. You'll have questions that I don't want you to share with me in advance. I want you to reflect the community that you're in." you know, um because I I feel like people need to hear that. So I find for the most part people are just and I said this in the interview, people are very forgiving. When you make mistakes, it's it's human. What's tougher is when people are saying, "Well, really, I'm the victim, you know, or or there were these missteps, but they were by all these other people and so forth." And so I said what I what I genuinely feel, which is that not only were there mistakes, but I kind of feel like even if I'm relying a lot on all of these researchers to do a lot of the footwork that I'm not myself trained to do, I've spearheaded this thing to the extent to where um my oversight was important particularly in capturing like the the end point of interest just being numerically present in table three. Yeah, it's like a no-brainer. No brainer. The the the most difficult thing for me was that I came from my blog cholesterolccoode.com in the earliest days and I could do an experiment. I could do a write up and if somebody said, "Did you you didn't include this? It's kind of important. This thing you didn't include, right?" I'd be like, "Oh, thank you. I'll fix it. Thank you, Chris McKascal, for letting me know this fixed." Yeah. Update here. And I'd usually have like an update at the top. So it' be an ARTA uh trail. Can't just do that with a paper. You can't just And part of it in fairness to my team is that it went all the way through peer review. It went all the way through a bunch of eyes seeing it. And the figure 1A was considered and is still considered by many within our team to be a graphical representation of what it was. It's just it wasn't a numerical one. And that There's just no question that was a mistake. I have that figure here if we want to hold it up. Ah, yes. Yeah, that's the first figure, figure one uh that everybody comes across and um and the first thing they ask themselves. It's funny, some of these pieces of paper have some dark chocolate smeared on them from my briefcase. That's the one you're talking about, right? A little more to your left there. Okay. Um, a little more to your left. All right. So, yeah, I mean, this is this is it. This is figure 1A, non-calified plaque volume, millimeters cubed. And you can you can see that actually a lot of folks who started up at higher levels of non-calified plaque, they are more likely to move up to higher for the second scan. So that the team liked it because of how much it illustrated the heterogeneity of the group. But that said doesn't excuse just not having a numerically pulled number. I knew that um thanks Chris. I knew that um there definitely was internal to the team less of an excitement in that number for its value. Mhm. But it should still be in table three. Table three has all we don't have an illustration of table three, but it has all of the non-calified PL all the differences so forth. So I think it was literally the day after or two days after one of the other authors said, "Hey, I've we we don't actually have the number anywhere in here. It's the pre-registered endpoint." Yeah. And my immediate response by text is like, "Oh, no, we do. It's like in table three." And I'm like looking it up. Whoa. Yeah. and I texted back and then that turned into group email and that was like the beginning of where it was like wow this is gonna end and the thing is I totally understand how if you're not holding us in the best light you could come to the conclusion that that was in some way intentional like we didn't like the poolled number not because it's not a good use of that value itself but because in some way it, you know, is is a bad result that we don't like. The thing I was not expecting was that some people would not take what I just told you at face value. Like, it's it's fascinating to me that I'm quite literally admitting that I realized this was one of the biggest mistakes that we made in publishing, but that that's not good enough for some people. They have to turn this into a and you meant to do that and I'd be like, "Wait, wait, wait, no, hold on. There's still figure 1A. Figure 1A is still something." Like, you can literally do this in the pixels. Figure out what the game is. Yeah. But that said, again, I don't want any of this, any of the things I'm saying to take away from owning and acknowledging that this was a misstep where we put ourselves in this position, right? So, what do you do? You do what I did with Dar Sharp is you just own it. Yeah, you just say, "Yeah, this happens and this was a big mistake on our part." I had a lot of respect for that. I just thought it's so in character for you, you know, in politics that what is the saying, uh, it's never the crime that creates the scandal. It's the cover up that creates this, you know, denial and all of that or throwing your co-authors under the bus or whatever. Um, I mean, owning it and say you'll correct it. Um, I didn't think that was the worst that that wasn't the thing that surprised me so much because I could look at that and say, "Well, there, you know, there's some numbers there. I can get out my ruler and just sort of, you know, get a pretty good estimate of it." I would have preferred, you know, to to have real numbers on it. Um, but for me, it was the title that that kind of set me back. I thought, "Wait, who I wasn't this?" They were just measuring the growth in plaque from year to year. Isn't that what this paper is about? Because if my Do I have the wrong paper? Because my understanding was this is a hundred people. It's an observational study. They're as your lead author said at at your conference, they're unicorns. You know, they're they're very healthy people. uh you know with their triglycerides and HDL and every their BMIs everything is in line except for the APOB LDLC numbers and um and to me you know it was like uh having a little bit of an epidemiology background it's like are they inferring cause from observational data where the data is only a year and it's only a hundred people because the internet is really critical about inferring cause from these giant observational studies where we do have complimentary randomized trials and everything else to go with it. I mean these this study we just went over is 105,000 medical professionals carefully collected data for 30 years and inferring cause is still you know it's not with 100% confident but that title sounded so confident you know plaque begets plaque and and that phrase kind of got me a little bit because you know I sat up and thought what does that mean I so I've had seven skin cancers does cancer beget cancer Um, you know, I've had them over 30 years. Um, but I have all the risk factors. We got down to many of the cause. I have blue eyes. I have sort of a reddish mustache. I have freckled skin. It's fair. I've lived my life outdoors. I was a outdoor guide for years at very high altitude, 10,000 feet in dry climate. I didn't wear a hat. I didn't wear sunscreen of every kind of risk factor. But it it wasn't so much that cancer beget cancer as those risk factors over years. We've sort of rooted those out. We don't know all the risk factors, but that's probably some of them. There's probably some dietary ones in addition and I don't know what all else, exercise and everything. And so it's like plaque be gets plaque or is it that people who are inclined to put on plaque because of some underlying cause will then see a greater increase in their plaque because of that cause not because of the plaque. And I think even the paper sort of intimated that maybe the plaque itself is um inflammatory. And it's like, well, it's that's a possibility, but these things are multiffactorial. I don't I Well, let's unpack that for a second. Yeah, please do. So, let's let's say that let's say that we were placing a bet. Yeah. And I had only the scan one data. Yeah. And I said, okay, at least of these two variables, you either have APOB Yeah. or you have existing present plaque in that first scan, do your best to predict who will end up with more progression in the second scan. Right now, the reason I This passes by everybody. The reason if you're somebody who's concerned that lean mass hyper passes by You mean people miss this? Yeah, people miss this. Yeah. If you're a lean mass hyper responder right now and you're looking at our study criteria and you're saying you're saying, "I've I've been really excited about being a lean mass hyperresponder because I feel like this is so healthy." Yeah. We're quite literally putting out research that says if you have plaque at baseline, here's data that we have that suggests that there's more on the way at a higher rate. There's a greater degree of progression. So there were people who were literally tagging me going actually your paper, you know, aside from all the controversy from its own conclusion on plaque be getting plaque is part of why I'm feeling like I want to take action, right? I'm not going to go into what action, but you can guess a CT and for one thing, figure out if you've got plaque. Well, if they already Let's say they already did. Yeah. Let's say that they do. Yeah. Do they feel being a lean mass hyperresponder will likely mean that they'll have less plaque coming ahead? Well, this is where the plaque begins. Plaque becomes quite relevant, right? Does LDL or Apo B have any predictive power in that first scan toward what's going to end up in the second scan? The short answer is no. So, I have a little trouble with that. Um, can we talk about a couple of charts? Yes, please. So, figure C. Am I holding it up? Uh, pull back a little bit. Pull back. Yeah. Only because it's tall. And then up a little. Yeah, there you go. So, baseline CAC. Yep. Yeah. So, baseline CAC, there's a lot of data uh crowded on zero CAC or as you say, AI picked up a little more than zero. Um, I don't know exactly what their plaque volume is, but their calcium score is definitely low, but these are pretty big increases at low sort of CAC's for some people. For some people, they get away with it, but for some people it's like, whoa, I've got a baseline CAC of near zero, and that's that's quite a significant change in plaque over one year, right? And and this is so what we have to do is we have to separate two things here. Thing number one is how much was LDL or a B predicted toward that thing. Number two is how much does this cohort in its entirety see the progression itself. Yeah. So where I think and this is me wanting to steal man not only your position but the internet's position. Yeah. That's on the other side. So, let's say we take it back to PAV because I'm a little bit more up to speed with PAV because of the supplemental, right? For people listening and who are fans of mine, can you just describe what PAV is? Oh, uh, it's percent atheroma volume. So, percent atheroma volume is basically how much of the let's call it the geography of the coronary arteries has detectable plaque levels on. And it's really uh and I'm going to acknowledge another mistake on my part in the process of all of this. I was so focused originally on um on total plaque score because it was the first data we were getting. Yeah. And my understanding was that comparing that to the Miami cohort. Yeah. And comparing it to my which we'll come back to in a moment. But as the quantitative data came in, I was I was effectively just assuming that it was going to correlate closely, right? But that's why I didn't pay as much attention as I should have as an author to things like the supplemental the supplemental table. The supplemental table if you are looking at it now, right? So you've got the um in the third column you've got change the delta PAV percent per year. Yeah, this is where I'm just going to acknowledge another thing that I'll concede. I'm a little embarrassed about which is that when I was seeing that 0.8 and against the supplemental so I'm not paying as much attention to it. I'm thinking it makes sense a little less than 1% a little less than 1% relative change to the baseline PAV because I'm looking at the percent per year. Yeah, that is not the case. In fact, cohortwide, the study's baseline being 1.6 with a delta change of 0.8, it's actually the PAV itself. In other words, there is a 50% increase in percent atheroma volume between scan one and scan two across our co our whole cohort. Right? And that is what a lot of detractors understandably are focused on. Yeah. But I'll draw attention to the next line. This is CAC of zero. This should be the lowest progressors. Mhm. Their baseline PA is 0.6. Their delta change in PA is 0.5. Thus going up to a 1.1. I didn't I didn't get that. How could they be on keto for 4.7 years and be at point6 and then go up to 1.2 or whatever it was? That's a good question, Chris. Remember how we're talking about the data points that stick out? Yeah. Okay, let's go a little further. Yeah, let's go to the third line. Third line, we're talking about 10ear cardiovascular disease risk being above 5%. So, this should be the highest risk group, right? Mhm. They go from a 4.5, not surprising that they're up there, right? Mhm. This is 28 people, and their relative change is to 1.4, right? So, they've increased by 30%. Okay. So, we can look one more. We've got the CAC above 100. This should be relatively the highest risk group. It's just 17 of the total 9.6. they increase by 2.4. So the absolute number is the highest but the relative change is the lowest. I asked Gil Carvolo about this because it was stumping me and we were on the phone and he said it's be this was just his opinion. It's because it's exponential or as you call it log linear it get the rate increases with time. So once you um that explains one half of the equation which is the 4.7 years that doesn't explain this part of the equation. This part of the equation on the year one or I should say the zero year to the one year later this is unlike any other cohort that I've seen. This is unlike any other study that I've seen. The lowest the lowest risk the CAC of zero. Remember they've had five decades of life, right? We're not even talking the 4.7 years. This is people in their middle age. You would love to see a PAV of 0.6. At age 55, but at age 56, the average jumps to 1.1. Mhm. Right. So this is where I have to be extra cautious because what I want to emphasize in this moment is there's biology and then there's the algorithm. These these are AI guided readings clearly. I do not want to suggest in this moment that I know exactly what's going on. I want to take a note from what you just said earlier. The the data point that's not that's not fitting. Yeah. Because this is a quick review of what I think you already are pretty familiar with. I've got my set over here. I'm just breaking them out into the four most relevant components. Component number one, the match analysis. The match analysis on that first scan when we're comparing the semi-quantitative data, it's a match. Yeah. There statistically there's no difference with ours actually trending a little toward better. And this is after 4.7 years. What you may not know about is that we also have what I'm calling component. The Miami heart is not quite as healthy a group, right? They the average BMI of 25 and 25.8 is what you're drawing to, right? Yeah. Like they But if you if you grabbed a cohort of people who had a BMI of 25.8, but they had these stats, they would look more like, say, Tom Cruz. They would they would typically tend to be a little bit more healthy, relatively speaking. The um especially the HDL and triglycerides. Mhm. So the HDL cholesterol is say an average of 65 the Miami heart cohort and triglycerides of 94. I I would happily bet you that their their BMI of 258 or whatever it is, it's it's pretty healthy. This one's this one's you probably haven't seen, which is this is the quantitative data, not the semi-quantitative. So that I haven't seen that that first one, table one here. Yeah. or I'm sorry, table three, these are the quantitative for the um for keto we have 79 versus Miami heart 79 matched and you can see the total non-calcified plaque the median is 47.1 for ours 46.9 for Miami heart so nearly identical and the total plaque and the total plaque volume is actually lower 50.2 versus 56.4 for now when we were first talking about this after I did the presentation and including this the semi-quantitative from what we published a number of people brought up I think fairly that a third of the Miami heart cohort that we did a match with were on cholesterol lowering medication that's why there's this last bit this last one is excluding everybody on cholesterol medication on cholesterol lowering medication so we end up with 54 on each side and Again, it's nearly identical. In fact, ours trends better for that first set of scans. So, now we're talking apples to apples because it's not even semi-quantitative. Now, we're talking the same AI guided reading for component two. Last one is three and four, which you're already familiar with. It's it's from our study itself. It's the lack of association with total plaque. Where are you? Sorry. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I'm I'm familiar with these. Yep. So, you're already familiar with this, but there's there's an important thing to draw your attention to. I appreciate that you're you're getting up to speed on everyone on the detractor side. The key the key thing people seem to keep coming towards is that perhaps there's this plateau effect that it's a a sigmoidal curve. Yeah, I heard that. And this is where I'm going to draw attention to a point you made from a little bit earlier, which is our study is a hundred people. when you're looking at studies that are thousands or hundreds of thousands that should be stronger data, but it's usually looking at a smaller spread, right? Typically much much smaller. If we look at Brown and Goldstein, Mhm. their population size was four. Yeah. Right. But they had very very high levels of LDL. Mhm. Presumably up until literally now. Mhm. Presumably something we wouldn't see outside of homozygous FH. Right now that's not true. We have our top person has 592. That's crazy, right? Which is crazy. So we have a spread. Not only do we have the spread that goes from eligibility of 190 up until that 592, but now I'm telling I'm breaking some more news here, which is that actually the blood work taken, we do have some people that fall below the 190 because we took their blood work there. Not everybody's going to happen to land at eligibility even if they prove to us that before, right? I would argue we have the highest spread of probably any study ever done on lipids. Because of that, we we absolutely should be seeing an association for the magnitude of exposure right now. I want to I want to really emphasize strongly in this moment. This is not me saying to you given all everything I've just laid out that absolutely this is a low-risk group. I've I've uh I've determined through my analysis that the the data point sticking out is one we can safely ignore. I'm not saying that. What I am saying is that in this moment in time, this is the first conversation I've been able to have where I can talk past that initial relative change that was to be fair to the detractors our registered endpoint. That sucked up all the oxygen in the room. The fact that you've already said that you've talked to Gil Kabutoo. Yeah. Carvalo. Yeah. Yeah. How do I say that? Carvalo. Carvalo. I want to be sure I say that correctly. I like Gil a lot by the way. He's a good guy. I think he's great. The fact that you've already been having conversations, you're asking the thoughtful questions. I saw Speakman was asking the thoughtful questions gives me some hope because I will say for a solid week and a half, it's been entirely I know this one data point. I know. And it's hard then for me to be able to say, "Yeah, the reason this was in a blind spot was because all of the other stuff was coalesing in a way that makes makes it make sense to me." But I need to continue my epistemic humility to not point the finger to people who are overly focusing on one thing at the expense of the others when I'm recognizing I'm doing that myself. I should have seen that. We should have had it front and center. We should have had it in the discussions more. We we fortunately get to do more papers. But this is why I wanted to just sort of stop and take a moment there. There's another there's another piece to this that I haven't been able to talk about that much publicly, but that you probably heard on the interview with Darius, which is that a major change is that the Citizen Science Foundation would then get the anonymized raw data. Oh, thank heavens. So I could start looking at these numbers naturally. I'm very interested in why the semiquantitative data set, right? The semiquantitative that was giving me so much comfort that I thought was going to correlate so strongly with the quantitative. I talked about this with Darius. They don't. There's a little bit more of a divide between them than there are in other studies. Again, I do not want to cast any doubt on any of the things that we've gotten until I just understand it better. Mhm. But that's all the more reason why I wanted to be a little bit more quiet to understand this and to also work with the journal to get like our initial our initial responses to the layers to the other and so forth. Quite literally, this is the first in-depth conversation I've had on this since those data were in hand and since I've had a chance to kind of assess this a bit better. Yeah. So, I'm very interested in seeing the quantitative data there. There were a couple of panels in here that you didn't talk about in the paper, but you published in a panel like panel number H or letter H is the saturated fat. Oh yes. Yeah, the saturated fat one. Can you talk about that a little bit because you know just looking at that there's an awful lot of scatter. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. A lot of scatter. I don't I wouldn't have I wouldn't have thought that that red that flat red line would have been the best fit to that. But if you get the quantitative data, that's a question more for Adrian. I'm going to be totally frank with you. The saturated fat topic with regard to lean mass hypersponders in particular. Yeah. There's there's some things that for me are such lowhanging fruit. Yeah. Yeah. And this the for example uh Nick Norwitz is actually on a pretty low saturated fat diet for say keto but his LDL is way up there at like 500 or something. But he fits all of the major levers of the lean mass hypersponder. He's super lean, right? He's athletic and he's super super low carb. He has to stay like pretty close to keto. Sure enough, when he had the Oreos Mhm. plummets, right? because it fits the energy model as we understand it. Even though he didn't reduce his saturated fat. In fact, the Oreos have a little bit of saturated fat themselves. So, I knew that it would be a common topic. And it's another reason why we wanted to put it forward that that I think ended up getting included. Since we had three 24-hour food recalls uh baked into our study, one at um examination, one at the midpoint call, and one at the end, um I was like, "Yeah, might as well have that one in there, too." Yeah. So my perspective on that is saturated fat varies all over the place and um so like I eat 100% dark chocolate all the time from Monzumas. I'm not I'm not trying to promote them. I just love their chocolate and um and my understanding is that form of saturated fat is not as atheroscllerotic. Dairy is less atherosclerotic when you and it's just the fat profile of like red meat because the bacteria in the room and eat all the omega-3. So there's just such a small amount of it's just the fat profile is very poor with with the red meat. So some sources of saturated fat cause LDL to skyrocket and some sources don't. And that's one of the things I like about the Harvard study is they break all those things out. you know what is the source of saturated fat? I think that was the explanation for why in Finland they had nine times the heart attack rate that Japan had because Japan was getting their fat from fish and Finland was getting it from beef and cheese. Um, and um, so anyway, uh, it was I just didn't I would have loved to see that. I would love to see the data for this, the dietary data, and I'd like to fit my own line to that and see um because the charts that I have from the seven country study seem to show that when you increase saturated fat by like 5% down where the Japanese cohorts were to 25% which is where the Finnish cohorts were, you saw factor of five increase in the most harmful saturated fat. you saw nine times u rate of death from heart disease. And then they were able to change that by changing the amount of saturated fat in the diet. And we even see this in well or saw this in France when when um up by Britany they were eating mainly a central European diet back in the 60s7s and so on and they had five times the heart attack rate and lived five years less than they did down in the Mediterranean area where they were eating and saturated fat seemed to be one of the fat I know it's multiffactorial there's well let me ask on this then so s as we take this detour because it is one I I've always wanted to to better examine. Yeah. The mediator of saturated fat causing cardiovascular disease is LDL. That'd be a fair statement. In other words, that's what we believe. Yeah. In other words, if you have a lot of saturated fat, but it does not have an impact on your LDL, then it likely will not have an impact on your cardiovascular disease. So, in a sense, we're kind of cutting out the middleman with our or I guess you could say we're we're emphasizing the middleman, I guess. Right. Yeah. um the the degree with which saturated fat is specifically a causal um determinant of the lean mass hyperponder pro uh phenotype is the place where we push back because if that were true people with higher BMIs would just as commonly exhibit lean mass hypersponder phenotypes or at least would exhibit comparable high LDL for example I don't I don't know anybody who has the LDL of ignor witz. Mhm. Who is like say a BMI of 30. Yeah. Right. Or myself for that matter. Mhm. And that's that's why I'm actually trying to steal manand your position probably more than you realize. There is likely some degree with which saturated fat has an impact on LDL. In my opinion, it's just that the degree with which not so much with being fat adapted and literally being powered by triglycerides off of lipoproteins has a much more relevant impact on the total lipid profile. Yeah. So, um you use the Miami heart cohort as sort of a comparator. Uh I don't think that many people are that familiar with that cohort. Maybe you can describe it more, but there's kind of this suspicion online that well that's not the healthiest cohort. They, you know, they're 30% of them were on statins. I know you subtracted that out, but it's kind of an American diet compared to people who really had their triglycerides under control and their blood pressure and all that under control. Um, but Gil came up with this. It was matched for that though. It was matched for blood pressure and like it's the the risk factors are Maybe I have that. I'm not sure. Not for BMI though. No, no, not for BMI. But that's basically I would argue next to impossible because our our group part of why they're lean mass hyper responders we argue is the physiology itself, right? So the but let me come at it from a different direction. Okay. If if the BMI is so cardiorive that if you could go to say a you know 22.5 then if you're a somebody who has homozygous FH all you need to do is be sure that you stay thin. I don't think anybody is really arguing it has that much of an impact on cardiovascular disease outcome relatively. Does it have some amount in an absolute level? I think so. But would having a BMI of say, you know, again, 20, I think it's 22.5. I want to look real quick. Yeah, 22.5 versus 25.5. If being three points of BMI lower means that you can comfortably be at an LDL of 272 as opposed to 123. This is the thing. I know you know this, but a lot of people don't get this. 272 is not just twice as much as 123. Mhm. The lipid hypothesis isn't that it's that it's linear. It's log linear. So for every 38 point whatever it is for every millim there's a an increase and it's compounding right. It's exponential. It's exactly and that's why by the way if you're looking at this if you're looking at this understandably like let's let's shift it. Let's take away those other components I I identified. Let's say you had a hundred friends. You were like, I want to try this new protein shake. Yeah. Yeah. And we did a study on you with CT and Grams. Quite literally from day zero, everybody's having the protein shake. We take their scans and then one year later, all we have is that relative change, I'd be like, get off that protein shake right this moment. Because if that's all we have, then of course it it looks terrible from a rate of change. It's because of having something like this. It's because of having these things be nearly identical after nearly half a decade. Yeah. It's very compelling data and and unfortunately right now we have an internet that's chock full of a greater divide than ever and me owning that that's partly on us for not rolling out in a better way. But it also kind of it also kind of draws attention to the problem space I think both you and I are very interested in. How is it that there can be such a degree of tribalism? Yeah. That can be this divided. Yeah. That that we can't actually have intelligent conversations about the data we have in hand right now. Right. But that's that's what we're facing. So, how do you respond? Um, one of Gil's issues was the lack of a control group. I know why you didn't have a control group because these are expensive to do. It's a lot of work and it's it's not the only reason though. It's it's actually very it's part of it is because we can't find lean people very easily who are on truly a ketogenic diet. Yeah. Of a of the same commonality. I see. So there are other levers but this is why at at the root of our mechanistic side and we know the claim is a strong one. This is our claim that you, for example, if I kidnap you and I take you to my to Dave Island. Yeah. And I force you to go off the diet you're currently on, you'll hate me, but I'm doing it for science, I'm proving that you would turn into a lean mass hyperponder. I believe you would turn into a lean mass hyperponder. I've almost been there before. back when in the day when I was doing Iron Man competitions and we had to get our BMIs very low um was pounds per inch of height. The the coaches always told you for triathlon 2.3 pounds per inch of height for uh bicycle race 2.2 pounds per inch of height unless it's a hill climb and it's got to be less. And for a marathon you better be below two pounds per inch of height unless it's an ultra run and then you can be a little heavier. And so we had this way of, you know, getting our weight down. You you got the best training effect at a little higher weight. You just recovered faster from everyone knew that. All the coaches knew it and you could see it in your own results. But for your A-RA once a year, you had to get down to your race weight. Every elite athlete has to do this. It's very difficult. And so you have like a month to drop the last 10 pounds. And so what you do is you eat breakfast like a king and lunch like a prince and dinner like a popper at 7 o'clock and then you wake up in the middle of the night hungry with your stomach growling and all that and you lose the 10 pounds and then you go race. You get to eat a little more the day before so you're not depleted. And um uh but during that time I was telling Nick that that I had low triglycerides around 40, HDL was around 73 and my LDL was like what is it doing way up there, you know, it's like 190 or something like that and it's I had heart disease in my family and everything. It was a big concern. But I was uh there was a um triathlon coach at the time who was very famous Joe Fel and I followed him in his book and went to his seminars and he was on the paleo diet. So he had convinced me that year to be on the paleo diet. So I was eating meat at every meal and low glycemic vegetables and things and so maybe you know I was low carb enough and lean enough that you were powered more by fat. Yeah. And when you're powered more by fat, it makes those all three of those the triad make sense. Your triglycerides are lower because your triglycerides literally you're powered more by them, but they're also getting taken up by your cells faster, which is why the HDL is higher. The HDL becomes a proxy for that turnover. I see your LDL is higher because it's indicative of how many APOB are being put into circulation to feed your cells the fat. I see. That's interesting. And that's that's why the saturated fat, it's an interesting story. Its effect size, whatever that is, I think is going to be radically drowned out by the actual phenotype itself. If it were true, then there would not be any association on the BMI side spectrum at all. It would just be however much people were eating saturated fat that would determine how likely they were to become a lean mass hyperponder. But can we put a pin on that because there was one more thing uh on your study that I thought Oh, please. I should uh so Gil did you see Gil's response to your study? I did but it was in a stream of things so I may not recall everything perfectly. Go ahead. So um towards the end he said uh so they didn't have a control group that was longitudinal like this where uh they saw plaque progression over a year using the same technology. So he found one uh and Matt Budof was a co-author um and they used the same clearly technology and he was looking for a group that was healthy uh that um sort of like your group being healthy not on statins or anything like that because the objective of the study was to show what uh common plaque progression should be among a healthy cohort. Um so is it prospective or retrospective? Do you know? Prospective. Prospective. Okay. Yeah. So, it's a very similar study to yours. It's there's only an abstract for it, and I should have printed it out, but I can link it to you so you can look at it. Um, and um, people are beginning to talk about it a lot online because the plaque growth that they saw, the median plaque growth they saw was about um, 5.7 cubic millimeters. Um, and what you saw was more, Adrian reported as 8.8 median. I believe 18.8. Sorry, I'm glad you corrected me. I meant to say 18.8. And so he gilded the math and he said it's 3.8 times higher on, you know, this cohort for the for the keto group, keto CDA group than it was for a very similar cohort run by the same guy of, you know, healthy people. So I think that one is worth looking. And the point that I didn't I just didn't want to get away from here without making is some of these people on this graph were fine. You know, they just didn't see a lot of growth, but you did have a lot of people who saw a lot of growth. And the median of 18.8 I thought was pretty threatening. So to me, my takeaway from the study is it's a good study, well done for the primary endpoint, which was to measure plaque growth. We could clearly see there's there's data points here where one guy had a little bit of regression. There were some people had no progression at all. Some people wasn't very threatening at all, but the the median of 18.8 was I consider threatening. Well, it's not just it's not just you that would be considering it threatening. What? And and let's take it back to the relative 43% increase, right? If looking at just a non-classified plaque bowing, so let's say that you're taking 40 let's say you're taking 43% increase again as you know the the rate of change. We have a a Facebook group of 13,000 I want to say 13.5. Yeah, it is. We started in 2018 and at the time that we started it I want to say I want to say I knew I don't know maybe 50 people who had been on some version of low carb highfat that was close to ketogenic ratios for two three years something to that effect right so let's assume a number of them have kind of fallen off just of the 50 I'm talking about Mhm. And let's say that a number of them have continued on up until 2025. That would be roughly 9 10 years something to that effect. Taking the math as is including the the uh plaque growth. This would be it if I'm not mistaken not not just above the healthy abstract you were talking about. I I can't say I know this for sure with non-calified plaque growth, but I can say I know for sure with PAV um that every version of PAV relative change is between zero and 20%. Ours is 50%. Right? 50% compounded year-over-year would mean that probably let's say that there's a third this is a bit back of the envelope. Let's say a third of the lean mass hypersponder Facebook group are bonafideed lean mass hypers responders and either they would qualify for our study or they would actually have health issues that would keep them from qualifying but likely there's not many that are better than those that are in our study. That would mean that if I if I'm doing the math correctly anywhere between a third to two fifths but maybe over 50% would have advanced heart disease. Um if the let's say the median time is if going by this was over half a decade right you know why I'm saying this right I know so again it's so challenging to say two things simultaneously but I'm trying to and I'm going to do it one more time not throwing this number out need to understand the number for example let me throw out something that I think steelman's the the negative perception of or data. It could be that there's something physiological with lean mass hyperponders that interacts with the scanner in such a way that the AI guided reading is getting thrown off by it. Okay. Not a reason to throw the data out. But wouldn't that work for the first year data in addition to the second year data? Correct. That's why and wouldn't it be true? Well, yeah. You see the problem. Yeah. You see the problem? Because I don't want at this point in time especially, I don't want to appear as though this difficulty is reason enough to not keep everything on the table. You have to keep it all on the table, right? But there's a difference between, you know, if if we were taking a car trip and I was trying to go from one end of the country to the other and you were wanting to pay attention to the odometer and I was wanting to pay attention to the speedometer. Yeah. Right. Right. And you're working out the math on the odometer and you're like, I don't see that your car is going any faster than my car. And I'm like, it is though. I swear the speedometer is showing it goes twice as fast as your car. And you're like, I'm not seeing it. And then you go to sleep for a nap. You wake up one year later. You're looking at my the same speedometer. It's going the same speed. And then I go, "Hey, we traveled 50% further. We did in the 4." You see where I'm going with this is this this is we're trying to figure out how this fits together. Yeah. Yeah. I don't have a good answer for that yet. But this is also why I want to I wanted to put the table out. I wanted to put the table out anyway. the table of all of the u the metrics that that we're reporting on or at least the the main five, right? That too is by the way been its own process. By the way, you remind me a little bit of uh an interview we conducted last week that we haven't published yet with Paul Hopkins. He's a lipidmiologist at the University of Utah. Very interesting guy. Um, and I went into that interview, Miguel did the interview, but I couldn't resist jumping in now and then because, uh, I've heard lip epidemiologists say the following things so many times. I wanted to ask him about it, which is, why is it that 10% of heart attacks happen on people whose blood work does not indicate a risk? I mean, what why why their LDLs are low, you know, they eat a healthy diet, their their BMIs are fine. All the risk factors that we know about don't seem to be there, and yet they have a heart attack. And yet, uh there's a lot of people who have every risk factor. They've got diabetes, they've got high LDL, they eat a crappy diet, they smoke, um all the things, and they don't have heart attacks. Winston Churchill. Um why is that? And he said that's that's just an everlasting mystery. You know, we're we're just keep looking at the data and we collect more data and we come up with more hypotheses and you know any one of these factors is not determinative. And even taking you know eight risk factors that we know quite well together is not necessarily determinative. and um you know we but we we get these patients all the time you know that have a heart attack and say why me you know and and because everything was fine and I'm young and I you know uh why did it happen to me and he said that we don't know well things can be things can be multi- what I'm not sure I'm saying this corre correctly not just multiffactorial uh can have multiple initiating being causal components. There's a there's a a smarter way that I can say that I me personally and we've had this discussion before. I think there's a long list of ways by which you can damage your antithelium. I think it's actually a pretty long list. I think there's a short list on how you repair it and fix it. And it involves the immune response. It involves the immune response being well equipped, not having a huge backlog. That I hypothesize along with it has an easier time where there's not a lot of hemodynamic pressure and mechanical stress. It has a tougher time where there is. Right. This is why I like this study a lot because the concern at one point in time was that we're going to have too many people with not enough plaque. The clearly AI guided reading gives us some value for all of the baseline scans. Therefore, you could track the plaque into the second set of scans. One of the things that um I'm fully conceding made me a bit cavalier on the front end was just how good the semi-quantitative data was looking. We have I close to 50% zeros. I think it's over 50% in the first scan. Close to the same in the second scan. There were um twothirds of our group that didn't change their TPS score at all from the first scan to the second, which might sound surprising given everything we just chat about, right? But the semi-quantitative data was where my focus was. And it it that along with the other responsibilities had me not keeping my eye on the ball for the quantitative because I was just kind of making that assumption on it correlating. Now, hey, data are in hand. There's people I'm engaging with that we're taking that closer look with to try to get a better understanding of what's going on. But the concept of heart disease itself, getting back to why some people are getting it, why some people aren't, if we do have what we believe to be the central driver in LDL and AOB. This is where I do think title aside, it is a major powerful finding that we didn't have that association with such a huge spread and it's such high exposure. Yeah. in in this particular group in this particular group. Again, if they didn't have plaque at the beginning, that would be different. But given that we do have some even in the semi-quantitative set that do have detectable levels of plaque, we would expect there to be at least a little bit of an association. And this is why Adrian wanted to go with B factor for reasons you're already familiar with, right? like it's if you can say it's six to 10 times more likely than the null, that's like it's like flipping its head from the um but I'm I'm sure you've heard the skeptics say, "Yeah, but this is a hundred people. This is an underpowered study statistically for that. It is powered statistically for plaque progression. For what it was designed for, it was great." But you know withund that's 100 people for one year is not great statistical power. That's what the skeptics would say. I would love for them to chat with Adrian. Yeah. Adrian again if we were if we I might chat I might chat with Adrian. Yeah I would actually he would he would love Yeah. We know each other. Yeah. He was um he was quite adamant that the spread was amazing because again not linear log linear. Yeah. Not just log linear. Yeah. But we have gosh, we've got standard deviation. I didn't really buy the plateau theory. It just it isn't that I can't say that it's wrong, but it's like I haven't seen any evidence that it plateaus like that. I just see an exponential growth. And it's not the it's not the present day lipid hypothesis as we know it. Like it's not even if we were to if we were to right now get a number of folks who were at different levels of LDL due to genetic uh monogenetic FH we would expect there to be an association because we're informed by existing studies right that's why that's why Brown and Goldstein's work was so instructive for just how I mean literally they have 120th of the number of people we have at the beginning but it was very powerful getting back to Bradford Hill, it felt very powerful because they hit that strength component right out of the park. Right. Right. So, no, it's um everybody's voices need to be in this room at the same time. We have to get to a point where we're like, wait, this is very interesting data. Part of the challenge is we have to get everyone off their, you know, offensive foot or their defensive foot so that we can have these kinds of conversations. That's why like I a lot of people don't know this backstory, but you and I do. Um, I got I forgot what it was, but we had to ultimately push your interview. You hadn't yet booked your flight yet. Mhm. And so it worked out. I was like, "Oh, can we push those to a little bit later?" Yeah. And then once I was landing on this coming Friday, once again, I'm connected to a lot of teams who I think just kind of live in the world of let's not talk until we're completely sure about what to say. Yeah. Yeah. And I've I've had a lot more latitude lately to be like, "Okay, up to a point." You sound like Harvard epidemiologists. Yeah. People I interview all the time. There there's a there's a point where you've got to just be able to be across from somebody who you can trust that you're both being intellectually honest. Yeah. Yeah. And genuinely curious. Because here's here's the beautiful thing about this whole journey, Chris. if you're really just trying to get to the real answers, the path is really quite clear, right? That's that's the beauty of it. Um, but that's not always it's not always clear exactly, I guess you could say, how to handle each step of the way, but as far as where the north star is, that becomes more and more obvious. So, well, I have to say, I don't want this to get lost. Um, but I've always been interested in this project because the data point that doesn't fit. And it's so strange from the time Nick told me he was going to eat Oreos and his cholesterol was going to drop in half right away. It's like, wait a minute. I don't think I understand that mechanism. Um, and how are people getting cholesterols up LDL's up in the 550 range or something like that? And I just I just thought it was very interesting, especially for a lean and young and healthy, you know, we need to know more about that. I was, you know, we've talked about some of the things that put me on my back foot a little bit, you know, reading the title and I thought, wait, I want to know about plaque progression and I don't want it to be lost that some of these people did have a lot of plaque progression. Um, but um I forgot what I was going to say. Uh, oh no, what I was going to say is my respect for you pulling this off, raising the funding for it, getting Matt Bud off, using clearly, you know, doing all of that for 100 people, no dropouts, and having them measure, you know, that they were really in ketosis and, you know, the whole thing for an entire year. That was a big undertaking and I think a lot of people are getting lost in that. and it did provide a really fascinating set of data and you know for you to step forward and say okay we made some mistakes let's correct those but would you look at this because I don't think we've answered this question I I think those are all the right things to do and I I don't think we should be rushing off and saying this is a terrible study or something like that um you know we can quibble with you know the analysis of it I appreciate that and listen there's there's just there always is room for improvement, right? Like there's we've we've had a good run of papers that didn't have that much attention and scrutiny on it. I I I think part of that is because it's generally looked good for our cohort and therefore it doesn't get quite the same play. I think that the attention and scrutiny on this one has been, let's just say, useful, you know, beyond beyond the, you know, pressing what it is we could have done better. It also I think is helpful to better understand how to achieve science communication in general, right? I will I will forever appreciate how these things are so difficult to change after they're out. And frankly, I now understand it has more to do with how controversial it is. You'd think it'd be the other way around that the more controversial like right now for example we have a version of the paper that we'd love the correct the corrected you know version would be that I think everybody yourself me and the internet would like more but to be fair to the journal and they would say this if they were in the room they would say listen it's counterproductive for us to constantly treat everything we paper publishes a living document. I see. Right. And therefore, it's better to think of think of the journal as the same thing as like a newspaper where you know the reporter goes out with what they have at the time, the editor checks it, you know, but whatever it is, it's fine if the next thing can be your way of continuing the conversation, publishing a new article. We want to have a new paper and the new paper will be informed. Yeah. by how this paper went, what people are the most interested in. When I started all of this, um, my intent originally, Chris, was and I literally had this term that I kept using. I want to capture and report. I if it were up to me, I could literally just get all the data, throw it out there, right? But I had to learn some hard lessons. And one of them is that I can't really put together a team where they do nothing more than kind of be, you know, work monkeys for me to just help with the the less exciting part, the compilation and reporting. Exactly. That's that's not scientists want to uh analyze. They want to add their voice to, you know, what's involved and so forth. And um and I appreciate that and I I I and I appreciate them because a lot of how I've been able to do this is is through the goodwill of others. This is the I think a lot of people don't get how this is a a huge charitable effort because I'm not paying anybody including us. We're just raising the money to then turn it over to Lunquist who's giving us a deal with what we're having them do. It's phenomenal. And um yeah, I I'm so proud of this work that our team has accomplished. And um and and for what it's worth, as you know, we had been in the process of raising money for the second study, which as you know has been part of my pitch is going to have a control group. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Great. We're almost there, but you were at the conference that we were raising the money to do that at. Yeah. So, in a way there again, there's lots of silver linings. It's definitely gotten a lot more attention and a lot more interest from everybody on all sides to opine on how that would best work for them. So, um I know you don't want to speak poorly of anyone. Uh and and this isn't speaking poorly. I'm just saying that uh your friend in mine, Nick, has a big personality. He has a big personality. So, he's going to put the cover shot out there that says game changer and this changes everything. And he's going to ask questions of Aim Mohatra. Will this change the standard of care in cardiology? And it's like, okay, those are big questions. You're going to get a lot of clicks with questions like that. um you know, you uh and so I think that generated some of the controversy to be fair. Um and here's here's what I'll say in his defense. That's a very good defense for him. He's game for showing up anywhere. You could you could say, "Yeah." Yeah. Hey, Nick, I want you to come on my show. I'm gonna ask you some tough questions. And he would he would show up, right? He's um he's been criticized by a number of larger influencers where he says, "Have me on. Let's have this discussion. Let's chat about it." Right. Uh I'm I'm going to say a kindness for Nick that I think is worth saying, which is that I agree he has a big personality. I agree. He he's, you know, he's very uh strong willed, but he's done so much to help promote and drive this research forward. I agree with that. And and I'm very thankful for that. Now, again, if you're wanting to rein him in a little bit more on things that you feel aren't he's not answering as well, by all means, invite him. He's he's so game to keep having this discussion and move things forward. He's, you know, he's kind of like the the Steve Jobs in many respects for us with regard to being a good salesperson. He's a promoter. So I just the contrast was so black and white between Harvard coming out with their paper in nature having a list of eight you know big- time authors Frank who and Walter Willlet and all that and you guys coming out with your paper around the same time trying to get any of them to make any appearance on social media. So far I've been unsuccessful. Now, I was just on the phone, uh, you know, before catching the plane with Fangley Juan, who is the second author. Um, but I had to go through a bunch of other authors because, you know, he would say, well, the primary author is Dr. You know, so and so, and and I'd say, yeah, but she backed out because she's having a baby. It's a very valid reason for backing out. Um, and another, you know, some of the big authors, they turn me down, turn me down, turn me down. So, they're not going to accuse you of hogging the spotlight, but it's a good enough paper. Somebody ought to be willing to be interviewed for this paper. And so, it's like pulling teeth to get them to do that. But for you guys, you were proactive. I mean, you were out there with, you know, especially with Nick. Um, and you're willing to appear anywhere. And and and I I do appreciate that. I'm being a little bit critical of Harvard people. Frank who is head of the school of public health. He has never sat down for an interview. People do not associate his face with his appearance on all these he's one of the most cited scientists in all of medicine and he's never sat down for an interview. How what? Well, and there's two sides to this, right? So part of why I'm I'm suggesting Nick, you know, part of why I press for people who may disagree with him strongly to have him on and to have this discussion is so that he can face these tough questions. I would want the same if anybody was putting out a controversial study that likely would draw scrutiny that they could also take on the tough questions themselves. That I believe is just good for science all around. Right. And so I I can imagine that a lot of people may not want to be interviewed because they would like that discussion to take place strictly in print. And I and I understand that a lot more especially coming from the authoring side. It can be a little bit more deliberate. It can be a little bit more careful and thoughtful in the way things are said. But for us, I mean, this is a social media construct in many regards. This research was only possible That's a fair point. That's a real fair point. Yeah. They they are the people you're willing to interview aren't as reliant on it and therefore don't necessarily need to. Mhm. Yeah, that's a very fair point. Yeah. If it weren't for social media, you wouldn't have been able to raise all this money and make this thing happen. So that and I wouldn't have made these discoveries. You know, social media allowed for me to spread the word on cholesterolcco.com. that brought more people to come and comment. That got me more in touch with other people. I mean, I'm I'm literally authoring papers with Nick and Adrian before I've met them in real life, right? Yeah. And so the before this point in time, social media um not being there meant that I might have just returned to a path of diabetes because I didn't have other ways for me to interact. And by the same token to have seen this phenotype of lean mass hyper responders. I very much credit social media for being able to aggregate that data together for me. Um we put a pin in protein. Should we come back to that? Yes, let's come back with protein.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: xP0jK39yHds (https://youtu.be/xP0jK39yHds) ===

Okay, I'm being joined by Darius Sharp. Um, a little bit of transparency to the viewer. We have worked out that we're going to have this interview and we're going to be discussing some very important questions with regard to the QCTA study. Um, and I don't know the questions in advance, but obviously some of them I can anticipate. So, I'll pass it over to you, Darius. Go ahead. All right. Hi, Dave. Um, thank you for first of all for this opportunity. This is great. Um, for people who don't know me, I'm actually part of the LMHR group on day on the Facebook page and um, you know, that's where a lot of the people for the study were actually pulled from. Um, and my background is I'm an ER nurse and uh, was a paramedic for a long time. And, um, I am an LMHR. I have very high uh, I have very high LDL, usually in the low 300s. High HDL, usually around 90 to 100. Triglycerides usually in the 40s, 50s. Um and so obviously this has been a very uh interesting thing for me and actually directly relevant for me. Um so my first question to you Dave is what gives? Yeah. Uh let me go ahead and get straight to the piece that I think is going to be on everyone's minds and rightly so which is we had a pre-registered endpoint which is the percent change in non-calcified plaque volume for the keto CTA study. It was registered like a few years ago, but we in our existing release from the 7th of this month, this is uh April 7th of 2025. While we did have the figure 1A which graphically shows the non-calified plaque volume and it, you know, shows heterogeneity and so forth, the bottom line is we did not have a numerical label on it. We didn't have it in the abstract. we didn't have it in the results. And uh I I just I want to come out front right now because I think people need to hear it that this was just a mistake. It was a big one. And it's a place where I want to not only own it, but to emphasize that this is where the critics have it right with us. And I I also just I feel especially bad at the fact that it created a a distraction from being able to even talk about a lot of the other aspects of the study that I think are worthy of discussion. And that's just on us. And frankly, because I'm the one who spearheaded this project, it really is more on me than it is on anyone else. Okay, fair enough. Um, I'm just going to put this out there because I, as you know, I'm pretty active on the LMHR Facebook group and just to, you know, way out there, people are pissed. People who have followed you for a long time, who followed the study, who who've, you know, actually helped fund the study and, you know, donated money, gone to the conferences. Um, and we are used to seeing data. We like, you know, all of us, myself included, I will do a clearly scan and I put it on the Facebook group. I put all of my labs on there, all the data out in front just so I'm, you know, full disclosure. This is what is going on with me. So to have something an actual formal study that's being done at a rep reputable institute with you know a reputable uh uh lead author um then to have such a major oversight in not showing us all these numbers that that we were expecting to see it honestly it feels like a slap in the face. Like to be frank I you know I was looking forward to it. I'm like, "Oh, cool." I I open up the study and I'm like, "Where where the heck are the numbers? I don't see anything. I don't see anything on on, you know, what how about A1C? Does that relate to this at all? Is there any association there? Is there um you know, an age association across the across the cohort? Um is, you know, heck, where are the numbers at all? There are there's a statistical table at the very end that you basically need to be a statistic a statistician or a researcher to be able to real to read, but you know we have these handful of graphs that you have to like you know zoom in on really far to even get a sense of what the actual numbers are. And like you said, you know, the pre-registered end outcome is not even listed. And you know, obviously you got blasted for that and rightly so. Like where the heck is that? And you know, then you know, obviously you got a lot of things to respond to here, but I'll end it with the fact that Adrian then puts it out on a on a Twitter post completely unbeknownsted by boot by by Matt and you know then a firestorm ensues. So please explain. Yeah, obviously you hit a bunch of things there. Let me actually first start off with the first point you were bringing forward with regard to how the paper was structured. That was a subject of debate internally with regard to the uh statistics that were involved. As you know in publishing papers there are like so many words that you have and so many graphics that you can ultimately build in. But this actually is feedback that even some of the critics may not realize we've gotten that you brought up and that did get brought up in the group. A lot of people are interested in things like the A1C uh and other markers that could be appearing in the characteristics that can be broken out with say uh blood work that we were also capturing that I think we could have done better as far as reporting that and a little bit less on the uh statistical nuances that many on the stat side might have been a bit more interested in. Did the what? Sorry, what was the second part that you were saying? Um well, I did talk talked about too much in that one. My big statement there. Um the the end point not being shown. Um and then Adrian posted it online. Yeah. So, yes. And and let me also and let me also discuss that one of the biggest challenges for me personally is that I want to be as good of a team member as I can. Part of being a good team member is to not single out people, especially if they're not here to defend what their decisions were. But do I think the team can concede there was a lot of missteps on social media? Absolutely. And the I kind of think of this in three phases. I think the first phase was the roll out where a lot of things were planned including interviews that we took uh including tweets that we put out including that video that I had that I put together. Um and then at the point that that literally the very first point where the uh registered endpoint was clearly not there that that was a big miss on our part and there was kind of an interest to see if you know it would be in the um the idea of transparency that that would be a way by which it could be shared. There's just no getting around it. I think we all agree that that was not the way to do it. But on top of that, by that point in time, we were in what should be a process where we're closer partners with the journal because what gets published should, if there's feedback that results in things like letters to the editor, should get responded to from us from within the structure of the journal system. So, could we have said at that time, we can't actually, you know, get to this yet until we're till we're to the letters to the editor stage? Sure, we could have, but let's let's just state it plainly. This was a problem of our making, right? Because had we shouldn't have been in a position where something could have that much pressure for us to be able to share it instead of somebody literally going through the pixels on figure one to be able to figure it out for themselves. I mean, I can I can definitely speak for my co-authors who would say, "Look, it's a bit over the top. It's a bit hyperbolic to say it was hidden or that it was omitted or just not in it at all. But that does not detract from it still being a an enormous mistake that again became a distraction that was very unhelpful for all of us. Fair enough. Um, I mean what you're saying and kind of what I've deduced over the past couple of weeks, it seems like there's a big I mean just frankly a lack of communication and maybe even a lack of planning and anticipation for what people would be wanting to see when the study was out. Obviously, you did tell me that, you know, there was some internal debate as to what should be included and what shouldn't. Um but obviously not including the final endpoint is um you know that's a pretty big miss. Um especially for you know somebody like Dr. Budof who you know his thing is research. So when you know I was listening to his interview with Gil and Gil um Carvello he was being actually very fair I thought and he was making very good points. Um and you know Dr. Budof seemed like he was like he hadn't even read the study. You know I hear him saying oh this was a a preprint. This wasn't even supposed to be out yet. And then you know then he doesn't know anything about the 18.8 eight um you know year increase or you know yearly increase of non-calified plaque volume. Um he doesn't know where that number came from. You know what? It seems very odd that the lead author on the study would not have that data, you know, front and center in his in his mind, especially on something that has received so much attention. So I I would say that first things first he just to emphasize he's senior author. The only reason this is relevant is as many people know um while it's a very important position a lot of times it's in kind of an overseeing role. Um there were lots of conversations that took place after the interview and I think a key component that came out of it that was really good was the uh joint the joint statement. actually have a copy of it here uh that I think was very useful for all of us in particular to just kind of you know clarify all of the the facts on the ground and I'll just I'll just say and this is with Dr. Budaf and I we appreciate the many engaged individuals who have carefully reviewed the keto paper published in Jack Advances on Monday April 7th. The paper was published with full approval of the Lquist Institute and all co-authors. Over the last week, the authors have worked with the journal editors to assess how best to incorporate clarifications around the primary outcomes. The numeric figures for percent non-calified plaque volume and the exploratory nature of the secondary analysis. While a revised manuscript will not be published, we hope to publish clarifying information in coming weeks in response to letters to the editor that have been submitted to Jack Advances per the journal process. We appreciate the many questions and lively discussion that have arisen in response to this study. We are dedicated to publishing future reports that provide clarifying data, future analyses of observed plaque progression, additional blood biomarkers, and clinical implications. We appreciate the deep engagement of all parties and look forward to continued discussions. Incidentally, I should emphasize this is there's putting this together was good for us as a team that this there's so many teams involved. There's a there is there's there's a coalition and and to be sure it's what makes making a mistake earlier that much more problematic when so many different people have so many different opinions as to how to react. And it also exposes how much if we're not all on the same page, it becomes a problem. And that's that's why I'm really glad that we took some time to actually put this together because I think it kind of level set things. But we still had the problem that we've had up until this moment, which is that there's still, yes, we've stopped making missteps on social media by just not engaging on social media, but it doesn't solve the problem of there not being any engagement at all. And so I think getting on the same page was a crucial first step. The the second step is what I'm doing here now is people need to hear answers. They need to hear they need to hear us concede straight up that we've made mistakes and in particular like I I want to you know claim appropriately. I've been working on this I want to say 8 nine years. I can say that I'm not a formally trained researcher and so a lot of this I'm trusting in the help of others but that does not excuse me at all. It may be an explanation, but in reality, something like the lack of the non-calified plaque volume percent change could have been something I absolutely would have caught. I I in fact did think it was in uh table three. A co-author brought this to my attention a couple days after the paper had dropped that it wasn't there and I actually responded to them. I thought it was in table three. The fact that it wasn't in table three was again, it wasn't just embarrassing, but I couldn't believe it because that absolutely would be something I should have caught for how much was going on. Now, again, more of an explanation excuse, I let myself get too connected to too many projects outside of this paper. The the paper construction was a very lengthy process, as you may know. There's a lot that goes on into it behind the scenes. I had uh the business on the other end. Um I had the the documentary. We've been doing a lot of shooting including with Dr. Budof around the documentary. And there's been the conference itself. The co-side conference takes up a lot of bandwidth. All of these things had me taking my eye off the ball that I should have been very much laser focused on. And uh to that extent, you know, again, I think it's important to take that ownership. Fair enough. Um I mean, sounds like you just had, you know, too many moving parts going on. And um you know, again, I'll I'll just going to say this makes one last point about that aspect, but leaving out the primary outcome. You know, he didn't catch it. Adrien didn't catch it. Bud off didn't catch it. you know, Nick didn't catch it. That makes it it really makes you guys look like amateurs. And um that's what people are saying. That's what people are thinking. Even in the LMHR group, even people who love you, right? Cuz I mean, I I followed you for a long time, Dave, and I I trust you. I know you're a great guy, and I know nothing like this is intentional, but people, you know, obviously, especially your detractors, are going to think, "Oh, wow. they intentionally left this bit out to uh you know to obscure the fact that there was this major increase in plaque over this year. Um and you know when you make a mistake that large it gives them you know it gives them credence. It gives your detractors a lot of credence in the fact that you know hey you left out this major thing that you know people normally wouldn't leave out. That being said, this paper obviously is getting a lot of attention on social media. You knew it was going to get a lot of attention, but you know, I bet mistakes like this happen all the time in research papers, but nobody pays attention to because nobody cares about research papers, right? there there isn't a whole, you know, giant Facebook group committed to any single research paper that's coming out that really, you know, specifically about them and a bunch of people online looking, you know, crouched and ready to tear it down. Um, a lot of papers for sure come out and they go, "Whoops, oh, we left this thing out. Oh, I can't believe I left that out. Oh my god." You know, I was too tired that day. I didn't I I missed that uh that that little bit right there. there. I was just reading a paper actually just before we came on and it was talking about um um using uh uh statins for primary prevention on certain on certain subgroups and it it we use the word primordial prevention which you know uh uh you think people would have caught that but there's there's typos and mistakes in papers all the time that get missed um and it happens you know frequently and they realize oh crap I I'll you know revive that or something or they just leave it in there, frankly. But with a study that was just going to get this much attention, there needed to be special attention paid to how it read, what data was on there, what people were expecting, and you know, giving ammunition to, you know, all the people who are ready to tear this thing down. You guys just handed to them on the platter. So, I know we've been belaboring this a lot, but it's worth belaboring just a little bit more because you bring up some important points in the scenario where a a paper is published and there's going to be an expected say 200 eyes in a niche, you know, area of science. That would be one thing, but it's social media. my origin story of how to bring this together. Getting eyes on this research is what I've definitely been championing and therefore yes internally was there, you know, immediate defensiveness like you know, hey, figure 1A is there and hey, this is very common there. Not only are there um there are different ways to display an endpoint and and so forth. It's not as if it was hidden, it's literally the first figure that's shown, etc., etc., etc. At the end of the day, we should we should have already been fully anticipating the level of intention and scrutiny that rightfully would come with the enormity of these data. So, no, while all of these things may be explanations, they are not an excuse. It is something that just was a big mistake. But I tell you, Darius, this is what I find in life in general. I I tend to find people are very forgiving of missteps. So long as there's both an acknowledgement of the misstep and a course correction. What people aren't forgiving of is when there's a doubling, tripling down, and there's just not an acknowledgement of what I think everyone can plainly see was a mistake. And that's that's why we needed to get to this. I just I I just want to add one more thing which is that I wish I could have been doing it literally on you know day two of my knowing really in hour or two of my knowing but at the same time I do have to be mindful of the teams I'm working with and I do try to be a team player and we there was there was a lot of disagreement among us as to how best to handle this how much are we going to get this into the corrections potentially how much is this going to be part of the letters to the editor versus how much we're going to talk about online right now and um and there just wasn't a lot of agreement not not until we had the joint statement which is why I wanted to do this right after the joint statement you know I there there wasn't even coming up to this interview and there's just there was a point in which I turned to everybody I said we're just never going to agree on the quote unquote social media strategy so I'm just going to tell you what I'm going to do I'm going to go I've got somebody who's and and Derry Sharp, you're one of the most prolific people on Lean Mass Hypersponder Facebook group and uh I'm just I'm just going to take a tough interview. That's just what it's going to take and it's what needs to happen anyway. You know, are are there people who we may have lost support from indefinitely? I I doubt there's any question of that. But are there a lot of people who have been just waiting to hear what we have to say and have been patient for both of those people? I appreciate taking the time to actually watch this. So, you know, again, I appreciate you actually, you know, finally doing this and finally being able to do this. Obviously, you're trying to balance multiple things, right? as a funer of the study, you uh you know, you're blinded to certain, you know, certain amounts of the data. You can't obviously just go on on social media and say whatever you want. You kind of have to to to be very conscientious of of how you're talking about this the whole study. And um but suffice to say a lot of people again even people who have remained steadfast in your support were feeling like they weren't getting any information from you. We weren't seeing anything like hey where is Dave? Where is Dave? Where is Dave? We are the people this thing is about. Where is Dave? And you know, again, to be fair to you, you had to balance a lot of of competing interests. Um, can I speak to that? Yeah. Honestly, that I think has been the single most difficult piece to all of this is I can be very empathetic to where our supporters would be right now because I I could imagine the exact same thing. I can imagine if you've been along this journey with me, you know, five, six, seven years, and I've had enormous uh accessibility to the community and regularly checking in and and being in contact that some of the worst things you could imagine are possible in a in a communication vacuum when all of a sudden, you know, we've had those missteps on social media and there's a lot of internal concern that we need to get all on the same page and that ultimately results in a kind of radio silence that the detractors, you know, can make a lot of statements, but it's not just about the people who've been against this research from the start. There are a lot of very well-meaning people in the middle who, you know, have the opportunity to think the worst things. And that that was just that was just driving me crazy because I don't want to come out say something that gets somebody else in trouble inadvertently. I don't want to criticize anybody else on the team beyond acknowledging where the team dynamics and where we made a mistake as a team need to be addressed. But that too couldn't be agreed upon. And then I just reached the point that I got to now where even if we are going to respect the process that uh we need to with Jack Advances, they've been a fantastic partner as a journal and they do want us not to uh create more problems on social media by missteps with regard to what needs to happen, you know, behind the scenes in the formal process with letters to the editor. I went to them as well as everybody else, every other team to tell them I'm doing this interview. And as best as I could, I tried to tell them what I anticipate I'll be talking about and say, "This just needs to happen. It needs to happen because Darius, you're you're identifying the people who I it's just it's most breaking my heart because I'm those people, you know, I'm I care a lot about the accessibility of the people that I'm connecting to, especially when they're, you know, trying to practice good science. And part of what I care a lot about with good science is transparency. And so when it feels like the transparency is suddenly missing, then of course it could raise alarm bells. And so yeah, again, it's an explanation. The explanation is the missteps on social media brought us to this place where we need to be more careful and cautious. We need to understand where the priorities are. And the priorities are we need to work with this more formal process that doesn't normally run in sync with social media. Social media runs 200 times faster than academic, you know, journal development. But it's all right as long as we can at least be upfront with everyone now. And that's what I wanted this interview to be as to the why. People at least need to hear a why you're not talking if you're not talking rather than just leaving it out there cold. Yes. And you know, I think a lot of people were feeling that way, like it was just we weren't hearing anything. Um, and I was trying to explain to people that you were obviously not able to talk about what you wanted to talk about. Um, for, you know, I think pretty what I I would assume pretty obvious reasons. Um, and, you know, again, I don't think we need to to beat that issue anymore. Um, um, your explanation makes perfect sense to me. Um but you know the frustrations are still there. That being said uh going back to the study um you know Dr. Budof um had mentioned this and I think you mentioned this as well like Adrian has another paper coming out about the study and there seemed to be um um when Dr. Bud off was talking to Brett Shear. Um there was a talk about like I guess multiple papers theoretically in the pipeline based on the same based on this study data. Is that correct? That's that's correct. However, I I want to I want to draw attention to something some news I can basically break in this which I know is something you care about a lot. As many people who've worked with me from day one knows with this study, as well as every other paper I've worked on, I like to drop the the the source of data like the like open source the not just the methodology but the data itself and that everything that I've been a co-author on up until this point when a study was completed I was able to do that. This is the one time where I was told early on and I understand why now that this is different when you're getting into actual cardiovascular disease and you get into patient privacy and there's also some contractual considerations that I can't get into here that it's not quite that simple. However, I think a big victory that I know a lot of people care about that I'm happy to announce here is that we are going to be releasing a table in our letters to the editor that will help at least bring a lot more open data. And this table will have all 100 participants total plaque score and non-calcified plaque volume all 100 so that you can see visit one and visit two. And I think that'll be some really great data and it's possible that I may end up having even a few more columns that can be added. The reason is because these are data that we reported on. So the metrics that you were talking about earlier like blood metrics and so forth, um it's a bit more difficult for me to pull those in. And there's a bit more things there are a few other things to discuss as to why. But I think this will go a long way to also bringing to light some interesting aspects that I think become more obvious when you can see the raw data yourself and you can get a better sense of what's going on. That would be great. Um like from the start my thought was hey why isn't there a you know there's only 100 subjects you can have a whole table with all 100 subjects all of their you know before and after labs calcium scores non-calified plaque volume total plaque score. You have all of that stuff in a big table. And as somebody who again on the on the LMHR Facebook page, I post all of my stuff. So that's what I want to see. Um it's it it I I think most people would say that it's um expected that you know a a cohort of people who are what 57 I think on on the average age was 57. 55. Yeah. 55. um that there would be at least a little bit of plaque progression within any group, even a pretty healthy group. Um so I, you know, that wasn't a surprise to me. Um maybe the level of plaque progression was, but again, we haven't seen, you know, all of the numbers laid out in front of me. So I I'm hesitant to speculate on that. And there's people frankly who are much more qualified to discuss the actual study itself um um that that can you know go more into that data especially when the table actually comes out. Now I guess you know the short answer to this is probably lack of communication but it seems to me like hey why didn't you guys state state up front that this is the first paper of several that we have planned based on the study data? Why wasn't that just told to us right off the bat? You know, it's interesting because I think I actually said this in a few interviews that I sort of and this was before any of the criticism came in that I'm think I was thinking more and more given the discussions behind the scenes that this was effectively a paper, you know, part one of two in that the characterizing of the heterogeneity was something Adrian was already working on. It was already a manuscript and it was already submitted at the time that our paper was getting published on the 7th, which I think is great because it can potentially be used by not just scientists but clinicians to identify those folks who really are at a more concerning level. They have not only existing plaque but they are considered, you know, fast progressors and to better identify that and better understand it. But to your point, you know, why not make that more of the opening campaign of discussion, right? To say this is a large and robust data set for which there's going to be a lot of papers that are going to be published on it. And this is where I'm I'm going to say that I personally you and I are the same Darius in that and this is why I like watching your posts when they come up is I did all these NM1 experiments from 2016 up until I say 2019 2020. I still I've not been doing them for a while and I do the same thing. I put out all of these data as I'm doing it. But it's an as I'm doing and then getting feedback. And and honestly, I really really missed that about doing an experiment, putting up a post. And my posts were basically the equivalent of an amateur version of a paper. And I was talking about this inside the group. I was like, I just why can't why can't we just tweak something? Why can't we change the text? Because I used to be able to do that. I used to be able to go somebody could say, hey, there's something wrong with this table. Can you change it? and oh oh yes and by the way thank you and I would tweet out a thank you to that person but to your to your point on there being more and more papers by that same token yes of course we we captured enough data for example we haven't yet we haven't yet done a paper on LP little a we haven't yet done a paper we could do a paper on diet in these various uh blood marker outcomes I haven't yet gotten the night andale comprehensive assay that'll break out the composition of these lipoproteins. All of these things and exactly what papers they will be and how much they bundle together other things are not quite known, but this isn't uncommon. Like the women's health study is a great example for which there can be a gajillion papers that can come out of a robust data set. But I think your point is well taken in that there really there there just kind of is this problem in my opinion with regard to this process having so much work put into a single document and then trying to treat that document as so sacrosan that it it absorbs a lot of the attention and time where I feel like it'd be great if there was more iteration like I'm used to in software development where you've got to build you've got to release oh hey we need to do a patch and patches are relatively easy but you could see patch history pretty easily things where that that process is more obvious and in play and it becomes easier to compare it to prior iterations of it but on top of that you know I kind of think of new papers as new features right there there's something that's truly new and different but build on an existing code base as it were um I'm I'm very very excited about what we not only already have, but that we also have blood that's banked, which is to say it's on ice. It allows for other researchers to approach us and ask if they can run certain studies against it. And I think they're going to, you know, there's going to be quite a lot of interesting data that comes from that. I'm definitely excited about that cuz, you know, I nerd out on that stuff. Um, again, my my criticism basically goes back to like, hey, you know, I wish it definitely wasn't communicated in a way that I felt everybody grasped that there were there were going to be a bunch of studies and or a bunch of papers based off this study and this paper was just the first of of several to come. Um that being said, um there has been some criticism um from people and I think rightly so that there was a lot of trumpeting of hey look there's no association to LDL within this you know cohort of mass hyperresponders um and plaque progression and that the plaque progression was associated with previously having plaque. Um there was again a lot of trumpeting of that aspect but not of the fact that hey you know the median progression was 18.8 assuming that number is correct and true. Um and you know several people who looked at the graphs that you that were on the paper say that's roughly where the numbers fall. Um, you know, I I I think it's pretty fair to say, especially like, you know, I saw yours, I saw Nick's um talking about it. I saw um Dr. Budof um but he he I think Dr. Budof was a little more um you know, did focus on the the progression aspect a little bit more like hey you know we are seeing some progression these people and you know they should be treated. Um but you know to be fair or at least um in criticism of of how it was put out there you know there was so much fanfare over hey no association to LDL but hey there's like all these LMHRs are progressing that that means something um and you know the the general criticism is that that aspect was really downplayed and um you know what do you have an explanation for that. Yeah, this this one takes a little bit more unpacking, but the the reality of there being no association between LDL and April B and plaque presentation or plaque progression seems to be something nobody argues there. there is that lack that's there and to the degree where I think there was a lot of confidence on our part to emphasize that it's literally in the paper right the plaque be gets plaque but Apo B does not to your point the lack of examination in the uh the one-year increase that seemed somewhat anomalous when when out without looking at it as a heterogeneous group is a issue. So let me see if I can put this in better layman's terms. When I had when I had interviewed Dr. Budof for the film, it was when we had in hand a semi-quantitative data which is not the quantitative the the semiquantitative is is the you know the 15 points of interest along the coronary arteries where someone like Dr. Brudof is actually looking through and scoring them on 0 to three. That's the semi-quantitative. The quantitative is where we have an AI guided reading service. I'm just going to turn off my notifications real quick. The quantitative is where you have an AI guided reading software that's actually uh quant quantifying it. You'll hear the it's where you'll get terms like plaque volume and on calcified plaque volume and so forth. Now I want to I mean that's clearly correct. Uh yes, that's clearly but there are other services too but in this case it's clearly okay. My impression and this is another place where I'll kind of own something that only became more clear after the paper was published. My impression was that because the semiquantitative was heterogeneous and because I had understood, you know, internally that that was what was going on with the clearly group that it was going to be comparable to what I had already seen before. And while there wasn't as much focus on the number with the that you just mentioned cuz it wasn't literally in there to the point where I was making that comparison, I kept seeing the percent atherumal volume and the percent volume looked initially to me like something that made more sense until I'd come to understand it better from those folks that were actually bringing back the criticism from after when the paper had gotten published. So this is a long way of coming around to the degree of change that really was cohortwide for an increase in plaque for a single year. I I it that didn't connect for me as much that there was such a difference between those two data sets that the semi-quantitative and the quantitative actually had a little bit more of a gap between them in a very relevant way. And that was another place where I think there was a misstep that I've not actually been able to be a public about until now that became very relevant to me in looking at these data and appreciating something that could only happen after we had gotten published. And that was when the citizen science foundation per the contractual arrangement would then get a possession of the uh anonymized data set. So part of why I know I can put out this table now is because I can negotiate with Lunquist and provide it's approved by the PI Dr. Budof we can put out this table as part of the letters to the editor you know as as further transparency but because now those data are with the citizen science foundation and I was able to check for myself if there if there were these characteristic differences between these two data sets that bring up new and interesting questions and and the short answer is yes they do. This literally happened, Darius, last Friday. This this just actually was not in hand to be looked at and examined. And indeed, this brought up a lot of interesting internal questions that I've now talked to to different cardiologists uh went back to discuss this with the statistitians inside this team as well as uh a couple outside ones uh under NDA across the board. But for which you know it ultimately led to quite literally a few hours ago us chatting with the chief medical officer of Clearway who was very helpful had lots of really interesting insights and is bringing some some new and interesting things that we'll be able to talk about but to to once again reinforce what I said earlier in this interview I'm not going to talk about it until there's a degree of clearance that I can be sure to do Why am I bringing this up in with regard to the question that you asked? Well, there's a lot of people who seem to want to take one of two directions from this and this includes us. You either like that the high LDL and high APOB does not associate with plaque presentation and progression which is the expectation per lipid hypothesis or you're on the other side of the fence where you're there's kind of a new emerging hypothesis of a saturation effect that after you get past a certain level of LDL then it doesn't matter what the levels of LDL are it won't have an association with plaque progression but for how much of a change that was that does yield a very interesting mystery that I think is important for us to all understand better. Okay. So the um I know when we looked at the baseline um results and the and the match analysis to the Miami heart study, you know, we didn't, you know, there was really no difference between the groups, right? And if anything, there was a trend towards less for less um um plaque for the LMHR cohort. Um but then again at the end end of the year we see this rather enormous increase in plaque that doesn't even track with you know how long these people had already been keto and already had high LDL levels right so it just kind of if you were to say you know the plaque that they had at the baseline just to describe this to you know people who have a hard time kind of understanding all this you know there would be maybe a little bit of an increase between whenever they started keto and you know whenever the baseline results were were assessed and then after the one year there's like this huge increase and which doesn't seem to make much logical sense to me right that was and it's the year we happen to have been watching right yeah so it it's a a key piece that needs to be a part of this conversation is the Miami heart match analysis and again this is why it makes a lot of sense as to how I had the level of confidence evidence that I did on the topic of heterogene heterogeneity and how you know understanding that coming back from the team this connected with what I was seeing with the semi-quantitative data that there must have just been a cluster of outliers that was you know pulling up this this mean or you know the the degree for which it would make sense that there would be such a jump that there had to have been like a few progressors that we caught in that year difference and No, to to be fair that does not appear to be the case. John Alexander, who you know is part of our lead mass hyperborn Facebook group, put up a great post where he was tracking the four different groups from the supplemental the supplemental gra the supplemental table that I wasn't paying as close of attention as I should have and something really stuck out to me to further your point which is the group that had a CC of zero which I want to say is maybe 54 people something like that the percent atheroma volume was 0.6. So to restate what you just said, if the average age was 55, that means for 50 years of their life, they were at average levels of LDL. That's what we got from the match analysis. And then for the next 5 years, they were at super high levels of LDL. And we know when the match analysis snapshot took place, that was against people who had average LDL for the same amount of time. So for half a decade, they had super high levels of LDL. And at that moment in time, it would be at a at a uh 0.6. Not the whole cohort. No, specifically those who had a CC of zero. 0.6. And then in one year they went to 1.1. They increased by 0.5. That was the median. That was across the the whole subset. So it is something that understandably drew my attention. and for me to want to ask more questions on why why did we see that? And for what it's worth, literally today, there's been a lot of detractors themselves who actually brought up this question as well. It seems like we're all kind of coming around to this broader interest to get more answers from these data. Um yeah, that would be great to solve that mystery. Um, you know, there's all kinds of speculation. You know, it could be that the just the the fact of knowing you're in the study changes your, you know, eating habits or, you know, whatever. Maybe these people were exercising extra hard because they wanted to make sure they were their calcium scores or their plaque would be lower, but that actually increased their plaque. Or maybe they're like, "Oh, you know what? I can allow myself a little bit more carbs on this, you know, or you know, there's all kinds of different things going on." Maybe they were chugging, you know, you know, pints of heavy cream. Some people were bringing up COVID. Some people were bringing up, you know, stressors related to COVID or things along those lines. Who knows? Um you know so going back to the the the um dose dependent um you know LDL and you know the the fact the general conventional medicine thought that plaque and LDL is you know plaque progression LDL are dose dependent right the more LDL you have the higher your plaque goes um I think it's a very interesting It's very interesting that there is no association at least at these levels at the LMHR levels there's no association between plaque and LDL and that actually kind of blows a hole in the theory that that um that plaque progression is dose dependent on LDL because unless there again unless there is some sort of ceiling that above that level because I think the argument I've been hearing it is well if you smoke two packs a day or you smoke six packs a day it doesn't make a difference once you're at two packs a today. Um the you know your cancer risk is roughly the same which you know I I think the cancer actually I think the cancer and smoking analogy is not good. It's and and I'm and I will push back on that because it's not that it's linear. It's not that an LDL of 200 is twice as bad as an LDL of 100. It's dose dependent and log linear. Logine means that it's compounding. Right? So for example, if in our Facebook group those who have a CAC of zero are having plaque progression in the percent atheroma volume that's increasing at a rate of nearly double per year. I would have anticipated we would have a very very strong skyrocketing of of events that would appear at least anecdotally. Obviously, this is not my way of being dismissive because again, it could well be that the critics are right and there is some saturation effect and our data might be contributing to finding it. I just would have anticipated that there'd be some association that showed up period. Getting back to the smoking, it's not a difference between one pack a day and two packs a day over, you know, 10 years. I would argue it's more like five cigarettes a day and 50 packs a day. Once you really get into our data and you see what that that range is. Remember the eligibility was at 190. We had some that were close to that. We had some people that were in the 400s and 500s. That's a huge range when you consider that log linearity. There should be more of a signal if it really is associative. Now again, I'll restate. It's possible the detractors are right. It's possible there is this kind of Jack in the Box effect. This I know I hear sometimes this extra luminal story. It's just it it does seem a bit coincidental that it'd be cohortwide, right? That that everybody managed for it to be in the timing just right for it to appear right between the 4.7 years in average to the 5.7 years in average. It it brings up some interesting things we'd like to learn more about. Um you you made you said something there that kind of um piqu my interest. You're talking about um there being some maybe extra luminal plaque. Is that correct? Yes. Outside of the blood vessel, not not blocking the actual lumen of the artery itself. Right. So the for people don't know what lumen what we're talking about with lumen, that's the inside of the pipe, if you will. That's the space in the middle and then outside of is the subimal space. You know, it's it's your endthelial cells that are here. And the extra luminal plaque starts on the outside and doesn't yet encroach the lumen. It's not actually been we can't easily just put in a, you know, a a video camera and and watch these things in real time, but this this space that's over here can possibly protrude in. And so many people thought our study would be invalid because there could be a lot of plaque that's being laid down but is not getting picked up by CT androgram because it's not seeing that encroachment into the luminal space that would be seen by the die that's found in the CT scan. Now that said, again, even if you're going by that hypothesis, that might be more likely. I think if this was a handful of individuals, it does seem a bit surprising that would be so many people ubiquitously across the whole cohort all at the same time and all in one year. That that I tend to find to be interesting. And you know I will use this moment to emphasize this discussion that we had with CMO with clearly is he pointed out something that is not a controversial statement which is that the and I asked him if I could quote him on this that the variability is higher the lower the levels of plaque and this is something Dr. Budof was bringing attention to that I think is a fair thing to discuss especially when we're talking about the AI guided reading. You know, it's kind of like trying to uh measuring a bowling ball with your with your bathroom scale is going to be easier than measuring a bag of feathers. Right? The lighter you go, given the instrument of measurement, there's a threshold which which there's an error. And they often call this the the noise floor. You want to stay above the noise floor to be able to see something that's significant. But after you go down enough, not that I want to get everybody's eyes glazing over, it's called a coefficient of variability. The coefficient of variability is important because it gives you a sense of how much you can count on the measurements within a given set by how reproducible they are and you know the degree with which you can consider accuracy. So is it is it possible is it possible that we lean mass hyper responders have found a new noise floor of interest with the cohort that we had. It's possible but I'm not making that claim. We're exploring you know what it is. In the in the meantime, without question, we stand behind our paper, its findings, and even if we're talking theory like I want to be able to do on social media without people taking and running with it, supporters or detractors alike, that's what I'm doing. That's why I'm bringing it up here. Got it. So, it's too early to tell, you know, um whether or not that noise floor is the issue. Um essentially, what people would know is a margin of error, right? when you get down to something that's that that is that sensitive like the clearly scan um for example actually I had a clearly scan done and when um there was the standard radiologist readout didn't see any soft plaque but when I did the clearly scan or the clearly um analysis I was at I think 32 what was I yeah 32.9 um um millimeters cubed of non-calified plaque volume. That's my own scan. So, you know, and that goes to the idea that you can't really compare this study to studies that aren't using clearly um um standby for just a second here. Oh, yeah. You know what? Um I again the the the extra luminal um idea is interesting cuz when I had my scan done all of my plaque is actually extra luminal. So it was what's called um positive remodeling which in general means that is you know I think less likely to rupture or just generally not um block the artery less likely to be you know turbulent stable plaque. Right. Yeah, exactly. So, um, in my scans, all of it was extra luminal and I would be very interested to see with the LMHR cohort how much of the positive remodeling is going on as well. Um, it's an interesting question, but the challenge is if the plaque levels are low for a very large number of them, that makes it a bit more challenging to characterize. Again, it's It's trying to use a ruler, a ruler to measure a piece of paper, like the the height of a piece of paper when it's on on a table. And you know, again, I want to reemphasize that this isn't a way to be dismissive of the data we're bringing because it very well could be that the relative change is something that will ultimately prove to have been valuable. It's just that we want to be able to speak more intelligently once we have more data to say either way. And I think, you know, if we can actually get the, you know, the follow like the what the two-year followup because you're trying to to extend the study, right? Um yes, we're able to do that, I think we would get more, you know, much more relevant info. You know, it it's also um you know, full disclosure, I know somebody who was in the study and they were able to get some of the results back and this is one of the regressors and this particular person um made special effort to keep their glucose low. you know, they were using a CGM um and at least for part of the study and at other times were, you know, really checking their glucose a lot and made a special effort to um you know, to to try to get their their plaque, you know, to try to keep keep their glucose low um because they thought that that might be a contributor to their own disease. Um if and you know, my bias is this, right? I talk about this aspect all the time as an ER nurse. I I see hypoglycemina in all of my patients all the time and I think it's it's a big void even within the nutrition community. We do talk about glucose but you know in the keto community we talk about carbs. How many carbs are you eating? Are what are your macros and all that? And I always try to tell people I could eat keto macros. I mean, you know, a keto diet can look like so many different things, right? People in the study could either be, you know, chugging, you know, uh, heavy cream or they could be having like salads with olive oil and salmon, right? Or be eating beef, bacon, and eggs. So, the the diet itself is so heterogeneous. Um, I mean, I can eat a totally ketogenic diet and have like a Snickers bar each day. I could spike my glucose over 180 multiple times a day if I wanted to while still stay in keto macros. So, you know, there's so much heterogyny in the diet itself. Um, that I would really love to dig down into each of these study subjects and go, what were you doing? Obviously, I don't think we're going to be able to get that granular on the data, but as somebody who's one of this, you know, someone who's part of this LMHR group, that's what we love. We love to see the nitty-gritty. What were you doing? What supplements were you on? Were you, you know, were you tracking macros? Were you um calorie was drinking? Were you, you know, timerestricted feeding? You know, what were all the little things that this individual was doing? Because this is ultimately about individuals and about individual um you know response to diet individual individual um risk tolerance cuz if somebody has a high plaque score um and they are eating a ketogenic diet that fix their IBS you know what is the solution for that person? Can they alter the diet without, you know, alter the diet in a way that gets their LDL lower without going on meds? Do we think, you know, just put this patient on a statin? Um, because we have data that says that statins do help with fight progression. Um, u, so it it ultimately comes down to what each individual wants for their own life, you know, to put in short. I I I couldn't agree more. And it's also as you understand why we want to have this data with regard to that part of the phenotype of the high LDL high EOB in its association with plaque. whatever your reason to be on the diet. But I your point is very well taken and certainly I've seen this within my own family and friends that everyone's version of keto can can vary widely. And I do think that there are not good versions of keto being keto itself or being carnivore doesn't in and of itself mean that it's a better diet. I think there's bad versions of all diets and there's you know potentially good versions of many diets. Not of Not of all diets though. I don't think there's a good version of the standard American diet as we under as we understand it. Yeah. But um yeah, I'm kind of out of questions myself. I I tell you what, if you're out of questions for now, there's one thing I really would like to end on. Yes. First and foremost, for everybody who's been critical, they genuinely deserve a thank you. You know, accountability is not a bad thing. and especially if they had been very respectful. I've really come to to find a number of people who were I I guess giving me a benefit of the doubt and us a benefit of the doubt while still being critical that I didn't realize would um many people that have kind of come out of the woodwork that have have been good. But by the same token, I know many supporters who've felt very disappointed as you brought up earlier and we need to again honor and appreciate that their experience is is very valid and that um to the degree that I've let them down, let me just be especially clear that I'm sorry. I apologize and it it just needs to be said. But the last thing I really want to emphasize is I feel like we've gotten a really good partner in the journal and Jack Advances. They've been really great. It's been a real pleasure to work with them. And my hope is that, you know, some of the the things we're hoping we can do that'll make the paper better um will work out well for both of us. I hope that the letters to the editor is going to be a a place where we, you know, showcase that we're doing things the right way and crossing our tees and, you know, dotting our eyes. Um, but on top of that, I I am looking forward to when we're more out of the more formal process and we can have more of these open discussions again, particularly with the coming research because I do I do think my opinion is not only not changed, I think it's been reinforced that the lean mass hypersponder phenotype is going to teach us so much about lipid physiology to the degree with which it's, you know, to the degree with which it's going to be associated with risk. I'll again reemphasize that's why we want to do this research to find out. Yeah. You know, I think the the best thing to say to a lot of the detractors or just people who are more on the conventional side of the thought, I should say, um you know, this could prove the lipid theory, right? If we study this more, you know, well, I mean that that's what that's that's how I feel. um people especially like like Dayspring who really kind of attack this whole idea that's what they think about uh LMHRs that hey we're just going to start dropping dead of heart heart disease of heart attacks um when a lot of us feel great I feel fantastic I feel you know my my diet's good I'm sleeping well I my my performance is great um you know and it's just this one little thing LDL that's kind of high and I to be fair to them they would say maybe you do feel great maybe you're sleeping better maybe but you but this one little thing is a big thing and it really is it really is a concern and you know I will also take the opportunity to reemphasize that with regard to wherever things are going if if there is this saturation effect if we're proving that the saturation effect can happen if we're proving this Jack in the box thing is is a very real phenomenon then it would be understandable why many people would consider this to be uh concerning and that one little thing wouldn't be a little thing, it would be a very big thing, you know. Yeah. And obviously I I think the biggest takeaway from all of this is to actually get scanned. Go get a CAC scan, you know, if you are positive on that, get a CCTA or clearly scan um to actually assess your risk. and ultimately make a decision for yourself of what you know what you're comfortable with. A lot of people would see that, you know, a lot of people would have seen my own scan and been like, geez, I need to go on a statin right now or I need to go on some sort of lipid lowering med. I need to alter my diet. Um, I'm a little more risk tolerant than a lot of people and I'm very I'm very willing to use myself as a guinea pig to, you know, continue my current protocol and, you know, track my results. Do I have, you know, less plaque in a year or more plaque or how much more? Um, so for from my end, I like kind of being a guinea pig, a self guinea pig, kind of how you were doing when you started all of this. It's great though. I, you know, as long as it's your own risk and as long as you're aware of it, you can be a guinea pig for yourself. But ideally, if you are, you're sharing the data in real time. I will also follow on your point. I've never been more bullish on just imaging in general with regard to, you know, no no measurement's perfect, but as far as its predictive value, I think that it's enormous. It's very prognostic. Yeah. I mean, you are actually looking at the disease itself because that's the thing that we're all I mean, ultimately that's what labs are trying to get like, oh, what's your risk factor of having heart disease? Well, you know, we actually have machines that look to see if you have heart disease. So, why why do all the speculation? Obviously, there's, you know, cost and radiation and um risk of of, you know, reaction to contrast and whatnot, but if you can get one of these scans and you're not, you know, worried about the risks of it, then it's, you know, the best way to actually assess what's going on in your own body. Um, trying to think of how to wrap this up. Yeah, this is this is your first interview, right, Darius? I've never done an interview before. So, yeah. Well, I I I think you uh I think you did very well and you did not pull any punches. Wasn't too hard on you. Oh, I I'm I'm very thankful for having the opportunity to to face the community and I think that you did a really good job of representing the community here today. And um I'm I'm excited to get this up as soon as possible. Thanks, Dane. I'll say I'll say one more thing to wrap us, which is part of the purpose of doing this was not just to, you know, give the the literally be able to or my my heart out and to emphasize where we went wrong and why it's important to acknowledge that here. But on top of that, I do want to re-emphasize that I am not going to be as engaged on social media out of respect for this process, which Jack advances for at least a little while longer, particularly for until this first round of response to letters to the editor. Um, and once more, they've just been they've been such a good partner to us, and I really appreciate all that they've been able to do. Again, thank you for the opportunity to being a to, you know, for me to be able to to do this and share all this with you. Absolutely. Darius, you need to strike up your own podcast. You got the mic and everything. So, I look forward to to hearing I look forward to uh subscribing. Yeah, we'll see. Maybe I'll get some YouTube videos going or something. I'll take a look. Kind of busy right now. I got a house under renovation, a baby on the way, and Oh, never mind. You're not going to end. All right. Thank you so much, Darius. This is This is uh I think this has been good. Thank you, Dave. I think it has been good. It's been great. All right, man. Well, it was fantastic talking to

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: HJJGHQDE_uM (https://youtu.be/HJJGHQDE_uM) ===

we did it 10 years ago my cholesterol surged after adopting a keto diet and what started as my personal journey is now a published study unlike any you've ever heard of we recruited 100 participants who were also on a keto diet with sky high LDL cholesterol and lowrisk factors like me for reference when I say their LDL levels were High I mean it was in the very top 1% of the general population an average of 250 4 mg per deciliter they each got one highresolution heart scan known as a CT angiogram and then a second scan one year later for comparison this is a widely accepted study design because these highresolution scans easily pick up changes in plaque volume in very short time frames okay so what were the results did LDL cholesterol have any association with plaque progression the answer is no there was no association between the levels of LDL cholesterol and the progression of plaque and this even applied to those with the very highest levels of LDL what is the strongest predictor of the progression of plaque existing plaque we found the amount of plaque in the initial scans were very predictive of future plaque progression in a nutshell that plaque begets plaque but LDL or apob for that matter does not for me this has been truly moving what started as an obsession over my own lab work has finally culminated in this groundbreaking study this in our coming studies is in large part thanks to my collaborators and good friends Nick norwitz and Adrien soda and of course our principal investigator Dr Matthew budoff at UCLA's list Institute the best part cameras captured every moment of this study and the story behind it it's all there in our coming documentary the cholesterol code you can sign up for updates on its release at cholestrol cod.com and to everybody who has provided their support for This research thank you this simply couldn't have happened without you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: UpCAJ2mlXiw (https://youtu.be/UpCAJ2mlXiw) ===

[Applause] our next speaker is going to be Martha Carlin Martha Carlin is a citizen scientist focusing on microbiome research in Parkinson's advocating interdisciplinary science and probiotic development please welcome Martha Carlin which is the is the middle one is the middle one the down one okay I got a lot of clicking to do I need to make sure I got the right button um I'm actually calling an audible and I'm only going to cover the after listening to all the speakers today I think the first two parts of my talk microbes and minerals are really important and so I'm going to slow down and talk about those a little bit more and then if we have time at the end we'll scoot through the membranes and messages um oh wrong way I did exactly what they they told me not to okay so I'm Martha Carlin I'm the CEO and founder of a company called the biocollective which is a company I founded nine years ago to basically get our Collective together and by that I I became the poop queen um so how does a a person with a background in um accounting actually my degree is in accounting I came out of school and and studied uh or became an auditor and as an auditor they teach you to question everything not believe any anybody tells you and they taught me a method called transaction flow review which is a way that you identify risk in a business by mapping out everything that flows through the business and then you examine and question each part of that flow looking for the break points to identify risk in the business well 21 years ago my 44-year-old Marathon running healthy husband was diagnosed with Parkinson's disease and I looked at how science and medicine was approaching the problem and I said this is a systems problem so I started to do what I do I'm kind of a fixer I was a business turnaround expert and so I I basically said okay well what's the main thing flowing through the body and of course that's food and water um and so I started to study the science of of food how we grow our food I threw everything out of the closet and tried to go all organic but in 2002 there weren't a lot of options but we saw progress with my husband just by making dietary changes so along the way I began to study more fields of science deeper into the human body the me mechanisms of Parkinson's and in 201 14 I read a book called missing microbes by Dr Martin Blazer of NYU and he was talking about the rise of the use of antibiotics we was talking about the microbiome and the rise of the use of antibiotics and how that was correlated to the rise in chronic disease and that really resonated with me because I knew my h husband had a history in childhood of having a lot of strep infections and taking a lot of antibiotics and I had spoken with many people with Parkinson's and I always interrogate them and there was this pattern of people having strep infections and taking or ear infections and taking lots of antibiotics or um acne and taking long-term antibiotics fast forward about six months later a researcher from Finland published the first paper that showed that he could divide the two primary types of Parkinson's Disease by the bacteria in your gut so in Parkinson's there's a trimor dominant and then there's a posture and gate where they their feet stick and they have trouble walking and just by the gut bacteria he could distinguish those two primary classifications and I said that's it I quit my job I started funding research at the University of Chicago doing um time series sequencing of my husband's poop and my poop and um going through it with a fine tooth comb and along the way uh met a researcher Dr Jack Gilbert and another uh woman Dr Suzanne Vernon who had studied chronic fatigue and we started talking about the connections in the microbiome across diseases and there were many similarities in chronic fatigue Parkinson's and autism and we said well what's holding this back back and um was looking at the microbiome from a wider lens so really being able to not look at a single disease but look more broadly so what we decided to do was start the biocollective and start collecting people's poop and genetically sequencing it and also building that out as a bank that we could share with scientist across the globe and my original idea was all these scientists would be very they were excited about the samples but they weren't excited to share information because I thought we could build this giant database where everybody would share everything and we'd be able to figure things out faster but it didn't really work out that way but we did build a bank and so I'm here to tell you about the microbes and what they what we have learned from the microbes so we're actually more microbial than we are human most people don't realize that so what is the microbiome well it's the trillions of bacteria fungi viruses that live in and on our body and they really function as our internal Pharmacy to maintain our health so we have 150 to some people say up to 300 times more genes from the microbes in our body than our human genome there are 100 trillion microbes in terms of cells the current consensus is there are about two times as many bacterial cells as there are human cells weighs about 4 pounds and it's doing a lot of work for us um and this bioactive peptides I'm going to talk to you a bit about that because that's one of the real places where the action is happening so what does the microbiome do well digestion and nutrient metabolism gut brain axis and the hormones there um most of these are made in the gut by bacteria and there's a whole Communication channel going on between the gut and the Brain 50% of those neurotransmitters that are made in the gut require a a certain mineral to activate them I'm going to talk to you about that 70% of your immune immune system is in your gut it regulates metabolism and energy storage and expenditure it makes the B vitamins and again are bioactive peptides it regulates inflammation um it protects us from pathogens and with the right microbes it can detoxify lots of the things were coming in contact with today and it produces amino acids microbes are everywhere and they are transforming and connecting everything so a lot of the time we just think about the microbes either in us but we don't think about the larger scale ecosystem and not only are antibiotics reducing the diversity of the microbes in our gut but the chemicals that we're using in farming and in our food systems are destroying the microbes in the soil that our plants need to take up the nutrients and provide nutrition for us and that the animals need to provide nutritious food for us so what about these Minerals Well minerals are co-actors for hundreds of enzymes involved in metabolism like we can't live without the active enzymes in our body that are being made and the microbes are actually um and this is not my phrase I I love that there's a little book called The Life Bridge the way to longevity with probiotic nutrients and they are really the life Bridge of converting inorganic elements into living matter and making them so that we can access them and use them in our body energy production requires minerals microbes and cells cannot make energy without minerals organ phosphat herbicides are probably well I'm not going to say probably I'm convinced I can say that because I'm a citizen scientist I'm convinced that organophosphate herbicides like glyphosate are actually what's driving the Tipping Point of our Collective decline in health and you know I first really had my biggest aha there's a paper from 2014 by a researcher by the name of Andre Lou that's Leu and he showed at that time in 2014 um he mapped out the rise of um the use of glyphosate and GMO corn and soy against 20 different diseases and I encourage you to go and find that paper and look at the charts it's incredibly alarming but that was 10 years ago he has not updated his paper and there are now more than 60 crops that actually use glyphosate now for drying down at the end of harvest so we are now exposed at a level much much higher than we were before and you know if we're we're talking about sugar here so sugar is one of those crops that is dried down with glyphosate and so and high fructose corn syrup is actually concentrating the organ phosphate so I hope your mind is blown and disease is an energy deficiency we've seen that in a number of the speakers today but the energy deficiency is driven by The Binding of the minerals by the Organo phosphates so if you can't access the minerals to make the enzymes that you need to run your body body you can't function you've got to find other Pathways to create the energy and so we're designed with multiple Pathways for making energy but if we start to break different parts of those Pathways we can't make the energy we need and we have to go down a different pathway so what are we made of well mostly oxygen carbon hydrogen nitrogen and calcium but all these little trace minerals that make up that other tiny little percentage of the body are really really critical to running some of these key enzymes in the body and making energy phosphorus magnesium magnesium is in over 300 enzymes involved in the production of energy copper is a co-actor in cytochrome C which is in the mitochondrial uh respiratory chain and copper is also critical for an enzyme called pepti glycine Alpha amidating monooxygenase that's a mouthful um we call it Pam but that particular enzyme performs an action on more than 50% of the hormones and neuropeptides in the human body and if you can't make the Pam enzyme you cannot activate those hor hormones and insulin is one of those hormones oxytocin is one of those hormones vasopressin is one of those hormones so that whole Cascade of hormones cannot function properly if you don't have copper iron is essential to hemoglobin but copper is actually required to manage the recycling of iron in the human body and zinc is essential to 100 enzymes and some some of those are involved many of those are actually involved in energy production in plants so these are some of the key minerals that get bound up by glyphosate so this is the periodic table of elements everybody loves that um the blue what's marked in blue is what's considered essential for life what's marked in yellow is suggested is essential for life and I actually I'm I'm friends with uh Dr Don Huber who's one of the global experts on glyphosate he's actually a plant path pathologist but I went to visit him a couple of weeks ago and he um shared with me the kelation constants of glyphosate and many of these that are essential to life are bound by glyphosate so I think I'm getting close to being out of time so this just gives you a a bit of the details around um those key minerals and this is what's going on in the membrane so we're not going to go into that but you can see here at different parts of the intestine the microbes and the minerals are actually working together to make these B vitamins they're making the enzymes they're making short chain fatty acids you're they're breaking down foods to to deliver the fat soluble vitamins um so lots is going on at the host microbiome interface and the Krab cycle is where this is happening for the B vitamins and energy production too many clicks and that's where your energy production happens so they are that life bridge and if you're B vitamin deficient your mic microbiome is a problem and we need to work on your microbiome so the mitochondria is actually a relative of bacteria so if you didn't know that they're very closely related and they both are producing energy in this way so there's a lot of action going on here in the membrane of the gut between the minerals and the microbes and so I would say to you we've sort of hinted along the way today of the connection between microbes and what's going on um I'm actually friends with Ben aadii and he's actually just done a 90-day carnivore study on his microbiome because everybody was like it will uh if you eat carnivore it's going to destroy your microbiome and his results were pretty amazing so he's about to publish those but what I can tell you is actually hyaluronic acid is a fiber and it's a fiber that feeds the membrane and it feeds the microbes so with that I think I'm past my limit so I will stop [Applause] [Music]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: QJEdToMDWZw (https://youtu.be/QJEdToMDWZw) ===

Dr Dominic Diago is known for his research in nutritional strategies for health optimization and Military resilience at the University of South Florida please welcome Dr Dominic deagostino app it thank you everybody uh big thanks to Dave for initiating and spearheading this movement and for inviting me to talk uh also a big thanks to Sharon she's like a super human who's like a one one woman operation running this I know what it takes to run this and I asked you know who's your team and she's like you're looking at her and so I kind of want to hire her for our show anyway uh thank you all for being here the attendees you guys are supporting this the generous uh sponsors and the the also the um you know the sponsors create technologies that help us Implement and do metabolic based therapies and the philanthropic support that Dave has got for this is amazing so uh I'm a professor at University of South Florida morsani College of Medicine and uh I teach medical students uh I Mentor them on different projects related to the research I'll be talking about uh PhD students Master students and undergrad students I do research at the Hyperbaric biomedical research level lab and also uh the metabolic medicine lab and also uh work at um as a scientist at The Institute for human and machine cognition Oh wrong way down they told me that five times okay so uh disclosures uh our research is funded by uh federal office of Navy research uh navc NIH and we have generous donations from uh 501 c3s and we work with a number of uh uh foundations and also industry I need to disclose that uh there are a number of University of South Florida patents associated with what I'll be talking about including Ketone supplementation and they have licens in Partners so there's a variety of different products on the market that uh are Ketone supplements uh also disclose that uh I use keto star and my wife has that company uh the keto start product I consult for a number of companies including Arc sugar uh which create allulose products and uh co-host the metabolic link podcast and also the metabolic Health Summit and just for context uh I got into this research through uh I've been studying uh Ketone uh ketogenic strategies and I want to kind of frame it as Ketone metabolic therapy and I'll Define specifically what that is and my talk will really be focusing on uh the applications and also uh the uh emerging methods to induce therapeutic ketosis and also with a heavy emphasis on biomarker monitoring and I personalize my talk in a way where I talk about my situation and the various uh home kits that I use and blood markers that I use and I think it may resonate with some of you also I'll be talking about uh some lipid lowering experiments including uh the use of lipid lowering drugs LDL uh and also apob uh my experience with a zamite I'll kind of be highlighting that and uh why it may or may not not be uh a good choice moving forward so our lab has focused on uh for the last 20 years or so it originally I was interested in lactate but the Navy has funded a number of different studies and I've studied Ketone metabolic therapy uh in the context of producing resilience in at least six different model systems so that would be isolated mitochondria that would be like primary dissociated neurons from the brain brain slice preparations uh this is a hippocampal uh brain slice preparation here the ca1 region of the hippocampus uh animal models including uh Mouse models rat models and then Pig models too we've moved Ketone therapy into that for seizures uh and also humans so we've I am highly convinced that ketones uh similar to the endogenous molecule that we produce has druglike properties because we ad administer therapeutic ketosis in the context of a normal diet without carbohydrate restriction so we know that simply elevating ketones within specific therapeutic ranges and that can vary uh depending on the context has therapeutic effects that includes anti-seizure effects neuroprotective effects it changes uh brain neuropharmacology neurotransmitter systems antioxidant mechanisms inflammatory things so we're just talking about ketones and not necessarily the Keet to genic diet so we've uh and I say that because we've did a number of studies including one that we published over 10 years ago administering a ketogenic agent specifically uh an agent that increases beta hydroxy berate and acetoacetate and we have almost a 600% increase in resilience to oxygen toxicity seizures so this is largely a drug resistant type of powerful tonic clonic seizure we've looked at other molecules including 13 butane dial which had no effect so most of the Ketone on the market right now are 13 butane dial or a monoester of 13 butane dial that had no that has no effect on preventing seizures it may have other beneficial properties but in the context of seizure disorders or oxygen toxicity uh a particular molecule with a very long name that I'll talk about uh is more resistant to seizur and this is an animal model that we use the rat model so we've moved this study it took 10 years years or more to move this study into human clinical trials so these you'll find on clinical trials.gov this is run at Duke University where subjects get inside a hyperbaric chamber they're underwater they're uh they're doing simulation uh looking at reaction time they're exercising on a bike uh we have a line going through the wall of the chamber looking at blood gases and metabolites so these subjects are come in in a state of a standard diet and then we put them on a ketogenic diet or we use the combination of a ketogenic diet and Ketone supplementation and now we're doing a trial just with Ketone supplementation alone uh administered acutely prior to getting into a hyperbaric chamber upwards to close to three atmospheres and we look at EEG seizures we don't produce a seizure in the chamber although that has happened uh it quickly reverses when you change the pressure but we look at EEG seizure so the latency in in the delay uh to the EEG seizure within without ketosis so these are ongoing uh trials and I look forward to sharing to oh I also wanted to say that I was a crew member on NASA's extreme environment Mission operations where I did a number of things living underwater for 10 days and I was doing some you know this is using an iPad underwater looking at reaction time under the influence of ketones I guess you could say and we have a we've collected a lot of data some of it's published most of it's not published uh I was I just did a podcast a pretty high profile podcast like a few days ago and the previous person that went on said the ketogenic we know the ketogenic diet doesn't work and it's crap or so I just got motivated more towards kind of looking and delving into the research so what I'll be talking about uh I think it's important to um when you look at the validity of the ketogenic diet or you question it to go to PubMed because that's where your source of information should be to vet out what it what it works for and what it does not work for in 1994 I was in studying nutrition as an undergrad at Ruckers University and Jim Abrams was on uh dine MBC I remember seeing that when I was taking when I was in nutrition courses and just thinking not being very interested in it because I knew of the Atkins diet little did I know where my career was going to go uh but that kind of started that initiated a lot of research including clinical trials and even basic science research and this was I had to extend this this was off the the Johns Hopkins website and just uh in 2023 I'm sure this will be even higher in 2024 there's uh 726 peer-reviewed Publications on the ketogenic diet so when people say ketogenic diet with a fad you don't hear about it anymore I'm not sure what drives the Google analytics but I could tell you that as a scientific researcher ketogenic diet research is exponentially increasing and I for a variety of different reasons mostly because it works and it works for a wide variety of applications right so I just did an analysis of clinical trials.gov of all the different applications here uh and and about like 10 years ago I had the same slide and it I had like size 32 font right because it was like five applications right so I can't even fit them all so with seizure with epilepsy and seizure disorders yeah there's there's 77 clinical trials uh so this is an area to keep your your eyes on there's rapidly emerging uh research on psychiatric disorders largely funded by the bazookis and um I'm super interested in this area of research including bipolar anxiety depression schizophrenia uh things like anorexia for example so I can't even fit all the different things in here on the emerging research but this is just a very you know it's exciting to see that other organizations and universities are kind of uh engaging in this research even for things like alcohol withdrawal syndrome I was on the PHD Committee of a student that was in Europe on alcohol withdrawal syndrome and also bzo dipene bzo diip withdrawal syndrome uh so just emerging applications that I would have never ever thought of and I guess I could say like you know this or in the previous so these are there was 500 roughly 500 clinical trials on clinical trials.gov and about a quarter of them actually involved using uh a ketone supplement and if you just go on clinical trials.gov and type in Ketone supplement uh this is very recent right like 5 10 years ago there were no clinical trials so a ketone supplement could also include medium chain triglycerides MCT oil so MCT oil was brought to my attention in 2008 by Dr Mary Newport who's a very close friend of mine uh her husband responded remarkably well to coconut oil and MCT oil uh she was he was being treated at the bird Institute uh where I work and was doing studies and uh had an acute increase in the mini mental status test and the clock test and this really uh interested me because I didn't know that you could Elevate ketones independent of a ketogenic diet so anyway there's quite a few MCT studies and U so these are the Ketone Esther and the Ketone Sal everybody asked me about the different dose ranges so I analyzed all the dose ranges for these different studies and you have to look at them individually to look at the protocols but there's a variety of different a ketogenic agents on the market and these are the ones that are commercially available the free acid form is technically you know the one that our body produces technically what what's uh what we make and then a ketone salt is basically taking a monovalent or divalent cation and combining it to Beta hydroxy berate at this site here so the electrolyte uh which could be as mentioned a sodium pottassium magnesium or calcium actually buffers the pH change so if you consume a large dose of a ketone Esther or the free acid that'll decrease your pH maybe not a good thing but buffered forms if if it's buffered with a u uh a cation then that's buffering some of the ph and then also delivering electrolytes which can be beneficial often depleted on a ketogenic diet so I'm not going to go through describing all the molecules but these are commercially available this is the molecule that we use for our oxygen toxicity studies it's it's made from 13 butane dial and has two aceto acetates connected to it uh and these are some examples of the studies you'll find on clinical trials.gov that I was involved in and the in applications very exciting emerging applications of using Ketone metabolic therapy in the context of uh not not a diet but Ketone supplementation so Alzheimer's disease Parkinson's concussion type one diabetes there's a study on that type two a lot of exercise studies so and I I bring your attention to that because you know there's a there's a lot of hype with the use of exogenous ketones in exercise but I do not think that's not the low hanging fruit the low hanging fruit fruit is really the broad range of metabolic disorders neurological disorders and also cancer that can be um that can be treated with various forms of Ketone metabolic therapy and there are many different ways to induce and sustain therapeutic ketosis and uh in previous slides I have Tim restricted feeding on there there are wide variety of different ketogenic diets and also ketogenic fats as mentioned medium chain triglycerides they go right to the liver via hepatic portal circulation and then they generate ketones about 20% of an MCT will be converted to ketones MCT medium chain triglyceride fats get in circulation and they can also cross the blood brain barrier so your brain cells can directly use MCTS and also like short chain fatty acids like butyrate can cross the blood brain barrier and function as a fuel source and a signaling source so there's a wide variety of exogenous ketones the market as mentioned audacious nutrition makes keto start or sponsor here uh many of the Ketone Esters that are being sold as Ketone Esters are just 1 three butane dial which is a a dial it's a dialcohol when it it needs to be metabolized by the liver to make beta hydroxy berate and when it does that it uses the alcohol dehydrogenase pathway and can produce a beta hydroxy butter alahh that aldah could be potentially toxic uh you know at higher dose it's a dose dependent thing but also if you consume 13 butane dial for example um you know one one gram per kilogram which would be like me you know consuming 100 milliliters per day and that would be needed to maintain about a three Millar and you do that for two weeks your liver enzymes undoubtedly will double or triple because you need uh your liver needs to work moderately hard to process these things into ketones so just keep that in mind and um so ketones are produced uh endogenously by the liver we can circumvent the dietary restriction typically associated with achieving and maintaining ketosis with exogenous ketones and MCT oil is another way to do that but through the liver Ketone bodies have unique uh energetic effects and pleotropic effects acetoacetate has its own effects as does beta hydroxy berate and uh and we're also interested in acetone uh we think it has some signaling effects so providing energ and we can use commercially available Technologies like the keto Mojo device uh the a breath meter the biosense device uh to measure this so we have a metabolite that functions like a drug like an epigenetic drug too and I I can talk a little bit more about that that we have commercially available technologies that can monitor the therapeutic ranges and uh more recently in the last 10 years these are all the different signaling mechanisms that we focus on in the lab uh with oxygen toxicity I heavily focused on reactive oxygen species production and my early experiments using laser con focal showed significantly less super oxide being produced basically showing that you're enhancing mitochondrial efficiency when the mitochondria are metabolizing uh the ketones as an energy source so it's changing glycolytic flux it's changing the neuropharmacology of the brain specifically glutamic acid decarboxylase uh Gad 65 and 67 Dennison receptor signaling Susan Dr Susan massino has done incredible work on a Dennison so our lab has really published uh a number of studies on a Denis and uh people are taking NAD supplements the the most powerful way to boost NAD levels is actually therapeutic ketosis we will do that probably better than anything and also inflammatory markers nlrp3 uh inflammosome is something that we focused on and then uh one of my pichy students is specifically focusing on on metabolic control of epigenetic Regulation specifically something called beta hydroxy butter relation where beta hydroxy berate directly interacts with the histone to influence Gene control so it's an area uh a very nent area of research but I'm uh very interested in in exploring more of that and uh so I'm going to delve into self-monitoring that I think is could be useful in the context of therapeutic ketosis uh I am actually a fan of the urine ketone strips I think they're the M the seen multi sticks measure like 10 different things and uh we have a little machine that can actually you know you stick the thing in and it gives you the readout of it uh but there you could use urine breath so urine measures ceto acetate breath acetone and beta hydroxy beate is measured by the keto Mojo device I would say at this point in time the keto Mojo is the gold standard uh for monitoring your Ketone levels it can also give you the glucose Ketone index and then emerging Technologies uh are kind of emerging and for glucose management you simply using a a continuous glucose monitor uh this is an individual with type 1 diabetes before on a standard diet and after uh going low carb so this is s seven days on a ketogenic diet you know uh on a on a standard diet and then seven days after following a ketogenic diet uh profound changes in glycemic control so uh very remarkable and more recently devices are emerging on the market uh for continuous Ketone monitoring and continuous lactate monitoring uh I'm working with Abbot on the continuous multi metabolite monitor so that would be beta hydroxy berate glucose uh lactate and also alcohol uh it doesn't work on Android so I'm waiting for them for test flight to actually work on uh Android device but uh but I'm excited that this technology can help us Implement sustain especially in the context of treating uh for using therapeutic ketosis for all the emerging applications that we talked about uh so I'm just going to briefly go over the the biomarkers that I think are most important and blood pressure is near and dear to my heart because you know my dad has high blood pressure and it's kind of in my family and little to know I was not really doing it right I was freaked out when I go to the doctor because uh and even at home I was going to grab an image but this image on uh Amazon was the exact blood pressure reading that I have if I do uh three measurements my first measurement is always quite high and then I wait a minute or two rest and do another and this is my third measurement after doing so it's important to measure your blood pressure at three different times during the day and take three readings so uh when I go to the doctor they check me off as being hypertensive but I have kind of like a white coat syndrome and quite a few you know it could be as high as 20% of the population has this so these monitors are cheap you can get them on Amazon and I highly recommend them and I and I highlight this because the ketogenic diet had the biggest effect the the biomarker that changed the most favorably of all the biomarkers I think that I measure was blood pressure on that and you got to be very careful if someone's on blood pressure medication and you put them on a ketogenic diet that it could get too low so uh fasting oops sorry fasting uh glucose and also post prandial hyperglycemia measured you know with a CGM is really important another biomarker and uh I I'm a scientific adviser for levels which has a team of people including people that you've heard of Dr lustig um you know Gerald schan a whole whole bunch of people and they kind of help Define the optimal ranges so I'm listing them here and I might have changed them a little bit based on some you know opinions that I have but but essentially uh if you're looking at optimizing your postprandial glycemia you know this is definitely high if you're shooting above 180 fasting glucose is pretty good but that could vary uh tremendously considering your psychological State what you age at night there's no biomarker you know nothing really compares to using a continuous glucose monitor and I'm giving an example here I was testing and it allows you to test different keto foods that are on the market right so this was a ketogenic cereal uh and obviously the cereal is not ketogenic I ate this dry this is something you could find at any uh Sam's Club or Costco uh not going to mention the brand but I would say 90% of the keto things that I uh consume that company sent to me are would not fit into a clinically implemented ketogenic diet so just keep that in mind uh insulin I'm not going to go too much into this Ben did a Ben bikman did an amazing job just talking about all the different effects of insulin but I do talk about like its context in health and I just like to highlight that insulin is a potent growth stimulator stimulates igf-1 too and it is sort of link to uh cancer growth as it pertains to lung cancer breast cancer and uh a number of GI cancers so uh hyper insulinemia is something that is not measured it's not part of a comprehensive metabolic panel and there's different reasons for that but it absolutely should it is the most important metabolic biomarker I think we could say that and it's not part of a comprehensive metabolic panel so we should be measuring it oh and I just want to highlight people ask me about the carnivore diet so I did the carnivore diet for a bit of time and does does it increase insulin and my insulin was 4.8 and that's that's pretty much normal for me I typically range between 3.5 to 4.8 uh hscrp did not change uh and hemoglobin A1c actually was really low 3.9 so I use a variety of different homebased kits uh you know zrt Labs is one of the kits that I use because we've used them in our NASA research they're blood spot cards and I think they've been around since the 1990s um so various uh Technologies like the A1C now you know I've used too and I think it compares to uh Quest Diagnostic so this is but I know there's a number of companies here coming up with home kits and I think that'll be extremely valuable not having to go into uh you know a facility to to draw blood uh hemoglobin A1c can be problematic in regards it's not super accurate but there's good data to show that it correlates uh with cardiovascular disease nephropathy uh retinopathy and uh it a generally good biomarker and something that I think you should include if you have anemia if you have vitamin B uh 12 deficiency that'll you'll get a false positive it can be high under different situations so uric acid uh this was turned on to me by Dr David pearlmutter he sent me uh this device that I use to measure my uric acid also has a great book on this drop acid uh and uh so uric acid uh Dr Johnson gave gave uh a great presentation on you know uric acid it's pathophysiologically linked to many different metabolic disorders um and hyperuricemia can be induced by high purine foods alcohol and excess fructose so my uh uric acid typically is about three uh 2.3 to like maybe 3.3 I ate a meal of liver alcohol and fruit so the three things here that increase uh uric acid and it shot up it doubled it went from like to it went up uh not above seven but close to like 6.7 so keep in mind that if you're eating those things if you're drinking wine if you're eating organ Meats hurian Foods uh seafood can also that also when you start a ketogenic diet uric acid goes up because it competes for the transporter uh aspirin also competes for the transporter so that could falsely Elevate uh or it could Elevate uric acid just because it's competing for the transporter so when you measure uric acid you want to do it a couple hours after you've eaten and also uh you know make sure you haven't taken aspirin even a baby aspirin can increase uric acid levels so something to focus on now I have been increasingly impressed with high sensity C reactive protein and I think it's highly linked to a number of different disorders and for me it tightly correlates with uh you know even having like everything from covid to like a GI bug or something it's tightly correlated with that and I did uh a little test on myself using the H kits and I went on a very healthy higher carb diet 200 to 300 gram a day interestingly my insulin did not budge I clamped calories and my body weight did not change during those two weeks everything actually ended up pretty good hemoglobin A1c trended up a little bit higher but my hscrp consistently goes up even when I incorporate I'm talking about eating like sweet potatoes uh you know just white like uh brown rice or just very clean carbohydrates my uh hscrp goes up you know I didn't feel inflamed but I think that's a trend I want to avoid when I'm on a ketogenic diet my hscrp is non-detectable or very very low so uh so vitamin B12 is important to measure if you're vegan you probably low in vitamin B12 especially if you've been following it for a while mothers especially need to be this is important if their breath breastfeeding because their infant will be B12 deficient uh so an important thing the trash the Alzheimer's Institute by me routinely sees people that have B12 deficiency and it is like literally the cause of the Alzheimer's symptoms so a vitamin B deficiency can result in uh atrophy of the brain hipocampal atrophy so that can be mitigated through supplementation and these are the ranges that you know I recommend uh if you are over 50 definitely don't go over 600 and make sure you kind of get this measured so I'm not going to go too much into this in the interest of time uh but these are the general recommendations for triglycerides HDL and apob here and I think we all agree that in the context of someone not having good metabolic Health that apob is extremely important and highly causitive I think maybe we have a divide when we're talking about uh apob being causitive in the context of perfect metabolic Health well I don't have perfect metabolic Health but I have good but my apob was quite elevated and uh and that actually uh that and a number of things pushed me to trying the drug uh aetam so I'm going to talk briefly about that uh I didn't really have um any sort of observable side effects I do need to get a kateed scan you know that has been something on my list that I wanted to do but my LDL typically range from about 250 to upwards of 315 when I was on a 2:1 ketogenic diet a clinical ketogenic diet and to bring it down not that I was super concerned about it but I modified I did a modified supplemented ketogenic diet with MCT and Ketone supplementation and bumped up my protein that decreased my my LDL from 270 to about 190 to 200 which I kept for several years and then uh about two months ago I did as a standalone therapy a zamite I started with 10 milligrams but had some cetosis and uh some loose stools the first day or two so I Dr dropped back down to 5 mg anyway I did 5 to transition to 10 Mig and it had this effect on my LDL it dropped it from 207 to 104 and it also uh decreased my triglycerides in this case from the 60s to the 40s and increase my HDL from the 40s to 62 so I did not really have any side although I should mention that uh my liver my liver enzymes did increase uh from the 20s to the 40s and so I don't know if it's because of that I need to retest uh and also I I hardly ever ever get sick the last couple like 10 years I got sick two or three times I did get an upper respiratory tract infection it was very mild but I shook it off pretty quick so I'm just mention that because these are the side effects that are reported in there and the and the possible benefits especially you know with uh Mi and also stroke stroke is in my family as it's high blood pressure so things seem to be going in in sort of the right direction with a z mind and I'm just doing it as a test my primary care doctor and my sister who's also a clinician is thinks I should be you know working on uh getting my things in order for my funeral because when she sees those numbers in her patients it usually leads to a bad outcome but I'll I'll mention that you know uh aetam D dramatically decreased my apob uh I didn't get apob B measured here but it was consistently you know kind of in this range and also my Apo A1 went so I went from the danger Death Zone to like a zone that keeps my primary care doctor and my family my sister in particular happy so she thinks at least I'm not going to die so this is just you know I'm not I was not going to use statins uh when I reached out to her you mean this drug I was like no I don't want the combination of acetamide and the Statin I just want aoide alone and I want to see if I am a hyper absorber of cholesterol and I I kind of had a hunch that I did uh I do variety of advanced testing and especially because I eat a lot of fish like pounds of fish a day sometimes and my heavy metals were uh low and that's a good thing and uh my bismuth on one of my last tests was super high that because I took Pepto Bismol like a couple days in advance and I was this was a mystery to me I was trying to figure out and I realized that bismuth is a component of Pepto Bismol or whatever and that's why but it's just very it's showing that these tests are very sensitive right if you're testing for heavy metals Ronda Patrick got me connected with the Omega Quant company and I tested Omega quants and my uh you know my Omega sixes are deathly low apparently and my Omega 3s are kind of like off the charts uh EPA so my Omega uh index is very good Omega Quan index so that's another test that I recommend so some takeaways here are the emerging applications of ketosis you know I think everyone knows uh Dr Chris Palmer's book is an amazing book talking about the effects of therapeutic ketosis on brain energy mitochondria in particular neurotransmitter systems self we have to become our own doctors right and self-monitoring tools that are available for us especially at home are going to be incredibly important uh and some things I didn't get to talk about in the interest of time are vitamin D magnesium body composition and strength and I let my performance kind of guide my nutritional choices and also I was thinking that inhibiting reduced significantly reducing LDL may have some effects on my energy or or performance but I have not observed that to be the case um you so I don't know how dropping LDL in half would impact sort of the lipid energy model or how that Fe if you have a someone that has a cholesterol of LDL of 400 and you knock it down to 50 how will that affect systemic metabolic physiology uh especially in the context of someone who uh runs marathons and exercise so I'd be very interested in people putting a metabolic cart on these people dropping LDL from 400 to 50 and seeing what happens on time to exhaustion and RQ and things like that so uh some other biomarkers I think so adexa I do routinely recommend aexa measuring strength grip strength is pretty good I love the Ora ring and I also use a Fitbit so variety of research that we have going on uh preclinical animal model systems some of the clinical trials I talked about uh I have the medical students working on a number of different projects including the use of continuous Ketone monitors okay uh and I'm wrapping up here because Dave tells me to wrap up so anyway I want to thank the bazooki foundation for supporting us because I have about a dozen medical students working on various projects related here including the effects of allulose with that I am out of time but I really want to thank my lab especially my wife and uh resources and books too

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: CkFHqMn4OC8 (https://youtu.be/CkFHqMn4OC8) ===

Stephen zvck um has a passion for microbial ecology exploring microbial impacts on health and the environment please welcome Stephen zwick and of course I'm not going to speak about anything pertaining to microbial ecology but that's sort of um a side tangent um today I'm going to start I'm going to speak about CR facial development uh a lot of it's and how that impacts sleep sleeping and breathing and in turn your metabolic uh health and Psychiatry um a lot of the I'm not a clinician a lot of what I'm going to speak about is based upon my own experience so hopefully it has some expandability to other people's experiences but I um I'm I'm not I'm again I'm not a clinician so um I'm not making that Assurance um most uh most of the health discussion that I hear uh oh I can read it down here uh revolves around um you know dietary preferences and when they talk about sleep it's usually in the context of of uh of sleep etiquette of reducing blue light uh getting morning light sleeping in complete dark you know I do all those things those are all great and they're part of what I've uh adopted but if you have um a physiological problem those those can only go so far um so how you how you can you know some symptoms as to whether you've you're developed or had problems then you may not be even fully cognizant of them um many people nowadays if you've had braces wisdom teeth extractions um or you know poor posture your mouth breather uh you snore these can all be signs that you've had poor uh cranial facial development um and poor cranial facial development uh is if you see in the uh this was do documented when uh w w Weston Price uh looked at people that at ancestrial diets had full um full wide jaws and teeth and then within a generation of eating modern diets their faces became deformed and some of this in more currently are one of the big problems is that facial development is is very much uh epigenetic expression of of environmental factors including and especially eating uh soft foods not chewing enough as an infect because you need that you need that action to develop a a wide and expansive jaw um there's there's other things with bottle feeding and even uh possibly diets that are low on fat soluble vitamins and even um also you know if your mother has apnea herself in utero some suggests that that can lead to some poor facial development um so how this manifests itself you can see whoops wrong one if you have uh a narrow a v-shaped as opposed to a uh a U-shaped uh jaw upper pallet your in your mandab if you have a recet chin um there are other features shown here of a of a more physiological appropriate face and um one that's deformed uh a a hunter that ate a wide diet and modern man who is now eating a very has a much narrower and skinny face so all of these lead to a lot of problems with not having enough uh not not enough room in your in your mouth for your teeth thus the crooked teeth and teeth extractions also there's insufficient room for your tongue and some of the other negative con consequences that your your upper whoops I'm keep pushing the wrong the the upper part of your pallet is the underside of your nasal cavity so when your arch is too high due to having too narrow of a pallet it deviates your septum which in turn um redu reduces your ability to breathe through your nose and there you're becoming a mouth breather both while awake and while asleep um and that in turn uh a narrow maxella and mandible also pushes your tongue back into your throat narrowing your passageway cuz there's not enough room for your tongue um and if you're breathing through your nose you're you're not getting very much nitric oxide that you get from your nasal cavity that Nitric that nitric oxide has a lot of functions one it acts as a viricide to kill any um viruses that you may inhale or and it also is a vasodilator so it increases your blood oxygen concentration ations and um some of the other physiological problems are sleep disrupted breathing due to the tongue going back in your throat and uh those disruptions put a lot of additional stress on your body and I I'll discuss some of my own personal N1 in a in a little bit um the metabolic impacts if you have that stress and it's leading to excess cord ol that cortisol can trigger where am I over here um I keep sorry um that excess cortisol can lead to catabolism of amino acids um and and which in turn trigger perate so instead of being utilized by your muscles that that that those in turn go back to your liver and uh and and trigger glyconeogenesis so you're getting so even if you're on a low carb diet you can be uh producing excess blood glucose due to the stress of having those apnea vents while you're asleep additionally if you're if you're having those disruptions while you're asleep and you're having hypox hypoxia and hypo hypoxemia due to lower blood oxygen saturation levels that in turn can trigger um lactate which in which also can trigger the glucon neogenesis pathway um and of course like I I mentioned before when you have that elevated stress from sleep disruptions and excess cortisol that in turn can lead to mitochondrial dysfunction which if you've read Chris's book I uh Chris Palmer's book Brain energy um I thought he should have subtitled it's the it's the mitochondria stupid um because after a certain while you know when you have that continuous stress and that continuous dysfunction and and impeach it sleep becomes a root cause more than a than a than a symptom cuz a lot of the time you look at the the psychiatric effects impacting your your sleep but it could be the other way around which is what I suggest for certain people is cuz that's sort of my um my story uh you know I had a lot of when I look back in retrospect I'm able to figure it out I couldn't figure out back then what was occurring unfortunately uh so you know I had braces and with them te of extraction and when I went to college there was a loss of structure I did started doing all nighter stopped sleeping had my own uh psychiatric uh issues that led me to being U hospitalized as well um again in my late 20s I had uh sleep studies done that revealed multiple sleep doors disorders I had 150 disruptions per hour so I never got into Stage one or two sleep um I had 50 from restless legs 50 from periodic uh limb movement disorder and 50 from uh sleep apnea I was put on permax for the movement disorders and CPAP for the apnea but I don't know back then in the 1990s those those cpaps were like big machines and you couldn't sleep with them so I ultimately had a ileectomy a tonsilectomy and my DV septum repaired but unfortunately those things really didn't they temporarily helped give me more room in my throat but they didn't really fix the the structural problem the the cranial facial development um I also went to you know I went around 2012 I went from a high carb vegan diet to a ketogentic diet because um I had read about some you know read some science papers and pertaining to uh the help of a ketogenic genic diet with some neur neurological disorders which allowed me to get off the requip which had replaced my permax um but despite this low carb diet in 2018 when I had some blood work done I was like why is my blood sugar so high and I couldn't figure it out um so that's and I I was also you know I wasn't like super high but my my insulin I was at 12.7 so it wasn't very good either and I wasn't able to really lose weight um so I again had a new sleep study done just a a take-home one and I still had I didn't have the the the movement disorders but I still had 60 apneas per hour I I never do anything half ass um and my longest apnea lasted 91 seconds so I would not breathe up to 91 seconds and I figured it out per minute I didn't breathe 23 seconds of every minute um so and on top of that I had extreme um blood blood desaturation I my blood oxygen would drop to as low as 60% so um so what so what I did there were some options I mean I see CPAP is the standard of care but it doesn't really deal with the the root you know the root causes whoops I keep pushing the wrong buttons um it doesn't really deal with the root causes there's there's a surgical option which and there's a non-surgical option you know the surgeons say these don't work and the people that use the non-surgical ones say uh there are issues with that and there ISS you know it's controversial whether you can really move your jaw when you get older but um and the surgery is very painful and very intrusive and you need multiple surgeries and but the the the surgeries um you know it's it's faster and it's it's more dramatic the surgery is here on on whoops I did it again uh the surgeries on you know you can see you can see the shape change much faster that's within you know a period of a year where the the um the the non-surgical takes much longer um now the big thing is if you have children or grandchild is to catch these things what when catch these problems when they're young so that you can because then it's much easier to address them and you know give your food give your children uh food to chew and uh if they do develop problems in their mouth breathers or um get that checked and try to get it corrected as quickly as possible before the age of 10 now um personally I've I've I've got in some additional sleep studies I went from 60 UH 60 app apas per hour down to about 23 hyp apnea so I have uh more mild shorter uh apnea events I improved my blood work markers I I'm still not great at with my A1C but I went from 64 to about 55 my fasted insulin went from 127 to uh 39 so um all that stuff's helped improved and if you want to do any additional reading uh take a snap of these three books cuz they kind of deal with these issues it's not mainstream in in the in the in the dental World they make too much money putting braces on people so um and they don't treat the body as if it impacts the rest of your face or your mouth as if it impacts your rest of your body but believe it or not your your head is connected to the rest of your body anyway um I made it with 30 seconds to over okay thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: TqyQygTrTHg (https://youtu.be/TqyQygTrTHg) ===

next up Siobhan Huggins is a research specialist at the lipedema project advocating ketogenic diets and nutritional therapy based on a personal experience with lipedema herself please welcome my very good friend and colleague and business partner in own your Labs Shian Huggins okay so for this talk I wanted to discuss a little bit about a group project that we had done in collaboration with the lipedema project lipedema simplified and American Ketone and this was to look at the impact of exogenous ketones on lipedema symptoms first off disclosures the main one that I want to highlight is that American Ketone did provide all product at zero cost for this project so I wanted to thank them for that next a lot of you may not know what Lipa is and now you're going to so lip EMA is a fat and lymphatic disorder that occurs almost exclusively in women it causes disproportionate symmetrical deposition of fat so that means down both sides of the body about the same amount assuming no other comorbidities it can also result in non-pitting edema easy bruising hypers sensitivity and pain all in those lipedema areas and that pain aspect results in it sometimes being called a painful fat disorder and this isn't just oh they have a little bit of pain this can be excr excruciating devastating life altering levels of pain so we want to approach with as many possibilities of management tools that we possibly can for these people I'm one of them by the way um it can also result in skin and tissue changes you can see ankle cuffing here um and then characteristically there's a limited or no response to typical weight loss methods like calorie restriction it's a little bit different with ketogenic diets but not typically full normalization of the tissue overview of the project um so the whole reason we wanted to look into this was because we had seen anecdotes from our community that first abct um aspect of observation of people using exogenous ketones and noting reductions in lipidemia related pain and another really important aspect is that there is existing research looking at using ketogenic diets for lipidemia and one of the most common things that it does is it reduces pain levels so how much of that is from metabolic Health Restoration how much is from Ketone exposure we don't know so in terms of the participants it was six women with lipedema u most of them were officially diagnosed and they were all from our wisdom Circle sub Community they each agreed to take 10 gram of ketones or BHB I'll use those interchangeably for 21 days um some after the first week also added 5 gram an hour before bed either to just increase their dose if they felt that was correct for them or to look at impacts on sleep there were four meetings in total orientation where we gave kind of the overview two check-ins and a final checkout where they summarized their experience and then uh during those check-ins we did get their General thoughts on what was going on which is a lot of what I'll be focusing on verbally I have more on the slides um and then we also did track changes in fatigue depression cognition pain and measurements at Baseline and checkout um so we've got some of that too in terms of the product like I mentioned American Ketone donated project uh product and this is a bioidentical D beta hydroxy berate um so it is the same form of ketones produced by the body um not like a salt or eser alcohol or anything like that it was provided in the form of a liquid concentrate which they diluted with water and I have a bunch of reasons why we decided on this product but like I mentioned lipedema is also it impacts lymphatics and things like MCT relies on that to distribute it in the body um we also didn't want to rely on liver or stomach processing and with the bioidenticals they are more immediately available so that was interesting and then both Katherine SEO the CEO and founder of the lipedema project and I had both tried the product individually and and we found it generally palatable no weird aftertaste so we thought it possible um that people would be interested in um taking it for 21 days so this is a first look at the project results you guys get the sneak peek we haven't discussed it with anybody else outside the team um so I've decided to present this individually Case by case because it is such a small um participant size and the individual stories I think are the most compelling here so number one uh participant BW not her real initials um you can see the demographics here um you can see if she was already on a ketogenic diet which is kind of interesting she did have pain at Baseline you can see that she did see reductions in pain and fatigue as well especially post-travel fatigue but one interesting thing that we're still baffled by is that 1 hour like within 1 hour of taking the dose she reliably became ravenously hungry and you usually with exogenous ketones we hear about appetite reduction well this participant ended up speaking to our nutritionist on staff at lipedema simplified Carrie re and she suggested why don't you just eat when you're hungry and see what happens so she did um so she ended up actually increasing the fat in her diet as well because she found that induced satiation she could get through the rest of the day just fine and you might think that with the increased appetite maybe she gained weight her measurements went went up but no her measurements actually reduced an inch at the waist and the hip so a proportional loss which with lip EMA is unusual and not impossible but interesting um and this one we're still talking about and thinking about and we're trying to figure out how to explore this more we didn't expect it um CR here very similar demographics but um not really any particular diet but she does regularly use intermittent fasting um she did also see pain reduction reduce brain fog reduce fatigue and she said that her clothes were fitting looser so that's interesting um but the aspect that I wanted to highlight with her is that she talked about how she drives for work and during this um experiment she ended up driving more than usual and usually her legs ache and what she noticed is that when she was taking the exogenous ketones she didn't notice her legs when she was driving because they didn't ache anymore and if you have lipedema or know someone who does when you don't notice your legs that is awesome so that was very cool to hear HB here again similar demographics low carb um this time around she had some of the most pronounced pain relief she was scoring like six to Eights on some of the pain response surveys and they came down to 0 to one using the exogenous ketones again I didn't expect that level I don't think anybody of us did but we're definitely going to talk about it um she also had some life events going on um including some increased carbohydrate intake and normally she said when that happens her pain increases but when taking the exogenous ketones they did not it wasn't all positive for her and I want to make sure to highlight her experience here which is she described herself as a super taster um so she said that Stevia tastes very bitter to her so she didn't particularly super enjoy the taste of the product but she decided to continue with it anyway um so that's worth highlighting too um one other thing with her is that she noticed a 1.9 in measurement reduction in her right knee only nowhere else um she did measure multiple times to confirm because she also found it a little bit weird um we don't know why that is we didn't have body composition skins or anything but I'll men mention it here in case anybody has ideas four um similar again but no pain at Baseline for her she's on a carnivore diet um so obviously that didn't change didn't get worse there's nothing to improve on um she wanted to participate in this project for brain fog and fatigue um and I was having a conversation last night talking about how difficult fatigue is to observe because a lot of people don't know that they're fatigued and one one thing that she noticed is that she could have a full day of errands and still have energy at the end of the day so maybe that's a question we could ask can you have a full day of errands and you have energy at the end if the answer is no maybe you have a little bit of fatigue but she did see that improve and just imagine the quality of life impact of that of being able to get through your day and at the end you're not exhausted um and she did also see some reduced measurements as well I've combined these two PC and BT because we actually have incomplete data on them um but I wanted to make sure they were included um so PC very similar demographics again already on a ketogenic diet the difference with her which I think is worth pointing out is that she does have lymphadema from birth so a lymphatic disorder from birth including impacts on the central lymphatics um which does a whole bunch of stuff that's a whole other talk um but basically what happened is she took the product for 9 days and ended up vomiting she immediately withdrew which we highly encourage doing um but she did mention that she is prone to vomiting um from certain medications supplements sometimes even food so she didn't note it as unusual but for safety reasons we did go ahead and have her drop out um and then BT the only reason that she's incomplete is actually because the product arrived late due to customs issues so she's overseas it was delayed by a lot and she started taking the product shortly before the last check-in but she did report in at that point and she did note a large reduction in lipedema related pain the relief in her voice when she talked about it is still in my head um and we have done followup checks with her and are continuing to do so and it seems like that pain relief is sticking with her and she's also noting improved energy as well so there are of course limitations um this isn't a formal study obviously this is a bunch of patients getting together and seeing what we can learn um everything was self-reported through self-administered surveys and group check-ins um many participants were already on a low carbon ketogenic diet we tend to emphasize ketogenic diets because there's such strong evidence for them with lipedema so that kind of skews our population it means we have limited data on those who aren't low carb um but it also means that people who are low carb may still benefit if this holds out in larger um group Siz so that's still interesting um it was mostly older women everybody was over 50 so younger participants with liida I'd love to look at um some participants did change their diet due to effects from the product or other life events we did request that they try to stick on the same diet but these are real people not Lab Rats so stuff happens um and then it was only 3 weeks it's unclear if results will persist with longer term use however um we are following up with at least two participants to to have them continue taking the product over a longer period of time and see what sticks what changes what dissipates because I think that's an important question in terms of the takeaways definitely um the most notable was the pain reduction four out of six people and one of those six didn't even have pain in the beginning so more like four out of five um the participants did notice reductions in measurements but again some of them changed their diet one increased fat intake um due to the increased hunger so maybe that caused weight loss for some reason one commented on more station at meal times maybe she was eating less and one only saw measurement reductions in one area um those I think this is important to emphasize but those with a sensitivity to the bitter taste of stevia might not enjoy it so if you're considering it maybe take that in as well um reductions in fatigue in brain fog about half of the people um further follow up in those with Central lymphatic issues it's kind of neglected ready um but to see if this is like a common response or just a one-off with this person either way important to look at um the final final Final takeaway is exogenous ketones may actually be worthy of further investigation particularly for lip EMA related pain and this is one of those symptoms that impacts quality of life very severely so we want as many tools as possible to help people manage this um and we talk about a bunch of different ways um through uh Lipa project and Lipa simplified also a formal study would be nice um also uh citizen science is cool and useful with lipedema there's 10 billion things that you could try so trying to investigate which you should try sooner than others can be really helpful for people trying to navigate one last important emphasis is that going into this project and coming out of it we were not looking to replace nutritional intervention we were more so looking at adjuncts to nutritional therapies um including ketogenic diets so maybe it could add a benefit on top um for acute flareups and symptoms and when first starting towards working on bettering nutrition um before you know you get those pain relief benefits thank you [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: zj7rDSqaIm8 (https://youtu.be/zj7rDSqaIm8) ===

hi everyone I have some very big updates regarding Kai and the cholesterol code documentary first and foremost thanks to everybody who's already signed up for Kai which takes place here in Las Vegas February 7th through the 9th again it's not just a conference it's a charity fundraising event benefiting the citizen Science Foundation you'll have the opportunity to hear from many amazing speakers including kinber Nina Ty Schultz Brett Shure my research peeps Nick norwitz and Adrien soda and many many more visit cosi.org for more details second if you're interested in requesting a seat for our exclusive firstlook event of the cholestrol code documentary be sure to register for Kai as soon as possible and join the interest list when you complete your registration although I only announced this just a few weeks ago the interest list is already filling up pretty fast lastly it's my sincere hope that we raise enough money at this conference to push us over the top for our next major study the Triad study remember all of us including the speakers are donating our time and covering our own expenses to make this happen so please share and join us and bring three of your friends with you it's for a good cause we'll see you in Las Vegas

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: yOPg3DPxb9A (https://youtu.be/yOPg3DPxb9A) ===

Dr Jamie Seaman is a holistic obstetrician and gynecologist with a focus on Fitness Nutrition and ketogenic therapy known for her medical expertise and media appearances please welcome Dr Jamie Seaman thank you Dave you guys one round of applause for Dave because I found out he's resistance training I'm so proud of you next year he's going to be just like totally jacked I know well uh thanks for having me it's really good to be here for those of you that don't know me Dr Jamie Seaman if you want to follow me on Instagram drfit and fabulous um I'm a gynecolog I didn't know we could tell jokes up here Dave didn't tell me that so I guess as a little ice breaker since we're back from break uh do you guys know what a deaf gynecologist does they read lips I only get to say that cuz I'm a gynecologist so don't use that one in the bar okay all right okay all right that's going backwards okay um a little bit about me if you don't know my background long before I became an OBGYN I grew up in Nebraska and you know uh standard American diet I was an athlete so I got away with eating the standard American diet for a really long time but I went to medical school where I met my wonderful husband he's here in the crowd somewhere today hey babe um and we went to medical school we got married we had three children but when I made this trans I from college to medical school it was the first time in my life where I went from being extremely active to suddenly being very sedentary now I got my degree in nutrition and exercise science and then I went to medical school and so here I am the first time in my life struggling with my weight struggling with my health I'm having these pregnancies I'm failing my glucose testing and fast forward to the to the end of my training and having three small children I was diagnosed with pre-diabetes and I was hypothyroid I was on medication for that and this picture here on the left was actually only um gosh I don't know five six seven years ago maybe now um and maybe you can't see it but I mean I was very inflamed I was tired I just didn't feel like an awesome human and I thought that's just what life is like when you're a doctor and your husband is a police officer and he's working nights and you have three small children um so I kind of went on this personal mission back in 2015 2016 to figure out my own health because I felt like as a health practitioner with a medical degree and a nutrition degree and an exercise science training that I would know the perfect diet and the perfect way to train and exercise to prevent disease and I didn't so I went on a path to figure it out and um I can tell you now that I'm the best health I've ever been in my entire life my hemoglobin A1c is 5.0 I no longer take thyroid medication I'm back in the gym training and lifting weights we're going to get Dave like deadlifting here soon um so so today's story is is lessons from a gynecologist because never in my life did I think as an OBGYN that I would be standing here on the stage talking about metabolic Health um so I'm going to tell you a story Dave wanted me to tell you a story today okay I can't figure out the up or down button so you whoever who was up here earlier who can figure it out okay patient story time uh this patient is 70 years old she was born in uh 1954 and she went to college and then she went to nursing school she was a nurse that was her career a little bit about her family history um her mother was a smoker and had pretty significant cardiovascular disease um other than that there really wasn't a lot of health issues in her family um her father died uh at age 52 of leukemia um she smoked in College you know in the ' 70s that was kind of a popular thing and then when she went to nursing school she was telling me the story about how the nurses used to sit at the ICU desk and smoke cigarettes and they would wait for the attending physician to come round on the patients and the way that they knew that the attending physician was coming to rounds is they could see his Pipe smoke coming down the hallway I mean this just blows my mind because you know I didn't practice back then but she's telling me the story and I was I was quite uh f fascinated by you know what we know now um she but she only smoked for a certain couple years until she decided to have children and so she stopped cold turkey when she got pregnant so in midlife she was actually quite healthy she did a what do they call it like jazzer size for a little while and she was just kind of eating a normal diet but when she would go to her annual exams they would tell her she had elevated LDL cholesterol so in the early 1990s when Statin became a really hot thing she was started on Statin therapy that was really the only medication on her med list at the time and she was told to eat a lowfat diet that fat caused heart disease so when I talked to her about what her diet was like back then she used to order like bean burritos at Taco Bell or she would eat pretzels or Hot Tamales because those are low fat um and she would eat mostly chicken but you know occasional beef maybe some fish so she really struggled with her weight most of her life she really struggled with obesity I'm not sure what her High highest weight was or her BMI or her body fat but she was you know she described to me that she was generally overweight most of her life after she had children now she had had some success with the Atkins diet when the Atkins diet became very popular and at one point she really committed to um the Atkins diet she went on a very calorically restricted Atkins diet was doing some treadmill walking and she was able to lose 100 PB so that was the most success ESS she had ever seen in her life when it came to her health and she really only does cardio when she's trying to lose weight other than that she's not a regular exerciser um in her 40s she ended up having a hysterectomy for problems with uh her papsmear which is completely unrelated to her cardiovascular health but I'm a gynecologist so I just put that in there for you um because of her hysterectomy though she's not sure when she went through menopause she really didn't have a lot of symptoms and at that time her doctors never offered her hormone replacement therapy or or medical hormone replacement is what we're calling it now um but she continued on hydo Statin therapy and she did have some side effects from us she described at certain points her doctor would trial different Statin because she was having some mygas or she would have some elevation in her muscle markers on her lab work so she was on and off lots of different statins um then in her late 60s she was diagnosed with pre-diabetes um she was also diagnosed with Hashim pH which is an autoimmune thyroid condition but she never had to go on thyroid replacement um and then um in in her 60s uh she started getting on social media and she would see Instagram and and all these things talking about how evil Statin were so she really started to question if she should be on a Statin for her LDL cholesterol and so at one point she talked to her primary care doctor about stopping her Statin therapy and her doctor was very opposed to this idea but she said okay well why don't we take you off of it and then I'll have you come back in like six to eight weeks and will recheck your lipid panel well for those of you that don't know her doctor is quite evil because what will happen when you suddenly stop Statin therapy is you'll get this rebound effect in cholesterol and her cholesterol is going to be through the roof when she goes to get this blood draw which is exactly what happened so she panicked and her doctor restarted her on the satin therapy so then at age 68 she starts seeing things on the on the social media about this coronary artery calcium scan and so I actually recommended to her that maybe she should go get a coronary artery calcium scan because this is an excellent way for patients with elevated LDL cholesterol to uh to risk stratify essentially their the possibility that they may have a cardiovascular event so she goes to get the CAC scan and I want to take a a public survey of what her score was is there anybody that thinks her score was Zero any takers any takers a few okay um how about uh 250 anybody at 250 anybody at 500 okay a few thousand 1,500 2,000 anybody at 2,000 okay we're we have a a great bell curve in the room we have a great bell curve um her score was uh just under 1900 so she had a really really high um a really high calcium score uh so she panicked um absolutely panicked and she went to see a cardiologist uh to decide what to do next about this incredibly high corner calcium score that she got so they did something called a CT angiogram so she goes in and they put dye into her IV and they put it through her heart and they scan her in the CT scanner and it confirmed that she had very significant atherosclerotic disease um there wasn't any narrowing that they could see but she did have complete oclusion of her right coronary artery but there was what they call significant collateral circulation so this had happened over a really long period of time and her body was able to make these small little blood vessels around that blocked right coronary artery so it appeared from the CT angiogram that her heart would would still be profusing um Cardiology adjusted her stat and actually increased her dose I believe and when she asked them about a ketogenic diet because she had been hearing about that on social media um they told her that that would kill her um that saturated fat was a horrible idea and that she should consider a plant-based Mediterranean diet so now she's even more confused um she did seek the advice of an integrative cardiologist who was quite supportive of her ketogenic diet adjusted some supplements that she was taking and also talked to her about other uh you know holistic and and integrative modalities and for those of you that don't know after my OBGYN residency I completed a fellowship and integrative medicine so for these patients I'm very supportive of these alternative therapies but I do practice Western medicine and for most of my patients it's kind of finding the balance of of what's going to really give them you know the best quality of life so I was supportive of this um during Co she developed pretty severe uh atrial fibrillation and just started to get very paranoid because she would get symptoms from the aib and she wasn't sure if she was having a heart attack so she was constantly trying to decide when to call her cardiologist and when to go to the ER or maybe if she should just stay home and count her blessings so at one point they said well you know let's let's get a stress test let's put you on a treadmill and we'll you know increase the speed and we'll put it on an incline and we really see how well your heart is profusing when you exercise because knowing that she had this horrible disease she was actually afraid um to get back on the treadmill and and start walking while she passed the treadmill stress test um with flying colors they were actually quite surprised how long she could go in the stress test with how bad her CT andram looked um but they did an echo right after the stress test and it did show some wall motion abnormalities so they were a little bit concerned that maybe there was was some hypo profusion happening and they really didn't know what to tell her at that point and so they said what will break the tie in this situation is to perform a heart cath so now they're going to take her to the cath lab not emergently but but in the near future and they would actually it's a more invasive test than a CT andram but they would be able to actually look at these arteries in her heart and figure out if if there really was some narrowing that maybe required a stent or maybe required uh open heart bypass uh grafting okay so the patient is actually my mother and this is my mom she's not here but maybe she'll watch this on YouTube so when I went to medical school my mom said I don't care what you do but please don't be an OBGYN that's all she said and she was in nursing and then later in her life she got into healthcare administration she actually was in charge of the department of surgery so at a young age she exposed me to medicine and she's the real reason that I that I went into medicine um she had had a hysterectomy so she said I was no good to her anymore cuz she was like why couldn't you do plastic surgery or something well who would have known years later I was helping my own mother you know navigate our Health Care system and she had significant metabolic disease and significant heart disease and um I was just amazed sometimes sitting in these meetings you or these clinic visits with her and listening to what these doctors had to say so uh my mother has taught me so much and so I'd love to just dedicate this whole talk to her um because I am her daughter and my father's side so my family history so my mother obviously has very bad cardiovascular disease my father comes from a long line of normal BMI diabetics so it's no surprise that when I abused carbohydrates and stopped working out that I developed pre-diabetes so uh thank God for my parents for teaching me so many lessons that you know hopefully I can pass down to my own my own three daughters so let's talk about my mom's case what can we really learn from this so she was on statins for 30 plus years and we'll call it a lowfat diet but it wasn't healthy it was like a standard American lowfat diet um but her question to these cardiologists was I've been on statins for a really long time that are supposed to prevent heart disease and I have horrible heart disease now what the statins probably did is they probably hardened calcium plaque so you can imagine her coronary arteries are like these just concrete pipes uh which is good cuz unstable plaques are more likely to rupture and and create a a heart attack and they actually think she may have had like a silent myocardial inunction at some point as that right coronary artery was was closing down but she developed cardiovascular disease despite Statin therapy she developed pre-diabetes probably a combination of lifestyle and actually Statin therapy and mitoch Ral dysfunction she also developed sarcopenia now she didn't do resistance training um and she developed osteopenia so her first Dex of skin showed that her bones were softening once she was postmenopausal so I want to talk to you about the role of menopause and the role of estrogen I'm not I'm not a cardiologist I'm not a lipidologist but estrogen actually plays a very important role in our cardiovascular health and in our metabolic health so I want to Define for you and really simple terms what estrogen does in the body now most people think of estrogen as a female hormone but men have estrogen too and estrogen is very important to men and in both men and women we make our estrogen actually from an androgen called testosterone so um for men who have low testosterone they don't get as much estrogen and they don't get as much protection to the cardiovascular system so in the pancreas when we have estrogen it actually improves our fasting insulin levels um it's quite amazing actually where estrogen receptors are found in the body um they're even in the inner ear I mean that's how you know disseminated estrogen receptors are in our bodies but they improve glucose stimulated insulin secretion so each one of these points I'm going to tell you what happens when you don't have estrogen so as women lose estrogen when they go through menopause or they're in per menopause we start to see an elevation and fasting insulin and glucose levels and an increased risk of diabetes in the liver um kind of the same thing it works in tandem with the pancreas it helps modulate glucogenesis and improves our hepatic insulin response and reduces hepatic insulin degradation so in in you know working with the pancreas once again more insulin resistance higher glucose levels and that of course has Downstream effects more visceral fat and lots of metabolic disease um in the atopos tissue estrogen also improves insulin sensitivity um in the uh chalk earlier somebody was talking about um lipoprotein light base so it actually affects lipid metabolism within the fat cells but it also reduces oxidative stress um in our skeletal muscle um estrogen improves improves insulin stimulated glucose absorption and it actually is um anti-catabolic so it's not as an it's not an anabolic hormone as much as testosterone is but estrogen is what I call anti-catabolic and is good at protecting the lean body mass so for somebody like my mom once she goes through menopause and she loses that estrogen production her rate of sarcopenia starts to the risk of sarcopenia really starts to increase if she's not strategic in dietary protein and resistance training to help maintain that lean body mass because the reason I'm such a fan of resistance training Dave um is that if you if you're like me and you're a former pre-diabetic who likes eating some carbs you know maybe I want to be on a low carb diet instead of a completely ketogenic diet muscle is one of the greatest disposal agents of glucose so if we can keep healthy muscle tissue it helps us um avoid metabolic disease now within the endothelium which is the lining of the inside of uh our blood vessels estrogen improves nitric oxide production which is a vasodilator so it helps those blood vessels dilate um and keep them from constricting which we know if they can strict too much it can increase our blood pressure so it's not uncommon after menopause I literally just had a patient this week that was in my clinic and she suddenly had hypertension after she went through menopause and so her doctor started her on a blood pressure medication and she came to talk to me about whether medical hormone therapy was a good idea for her because she really um was doing a lot of Lifestyle things well and developed this hypertension out of nowhere um the brain the brain loves estrogen it's very neuroprotective to our brain especially an aging brain um it is a an important part of our development as a young girl um primary sexual development cognition our memory maintaining our body temperature and of course it drives our feeding and sexual behavior as humans um so with the loss of estrogen as women enter menopause and Beyond there tends to be hypometabolism of glucose so there's about from what I've seen in the studies about a 30% reduction in brain energy so with the loss of estrogen there's a brain energy deficit and patients will develop um mild cognitive impairment increased risk of things like Alzheimer's um we see a lot of mental health disorders that can happen due to the loss of estrogen um in the brain and then I mentioned um when it comes to bone that my mother developed osteopenia um it does inhibit bone resorption and remodeling so estrogen and testosterone hormones in general um are very protective to our bones so as women make this transition the bones will increase um their bone resorption they'll start softening and we typically actually unless patients have risk factors aren't screening with dexas until women are in their sixth decade of life so once you're 10 or 15 years past menopause a lot of damage has been done to the bones um in that regard so I'm a huge fan of getting these scans done a lot earlier so patients can see where their bone health is we reach our Peak bone mass actually very early in life like in our 20s um so we have to be really uh cognizant of this because as we get old and we become sarcopenic and we become really frail and we increase our risk of tripping or falling um if you break your hip um after the age of 60 your risk of being dead in one year is like extremely high so um there's a lot of things um that we're going to get taken out by in this world and falling and breaking a hip should not be one of them um so we have to pay attention to our bone health so I want to go back to this idea that the loss of estrogen causes mitochondrial dysfunction so pretty recent studies um this one was from 2008 show that estrogen regulates the structure and function of our mitochondria so they actually um increase the expression of respiratory comp comp lexes within the mitochondria um they change antioxidants within the mitochondria and they have a anti-apoptotic factors that impact the structure and function so essentially they help keep our mitochondria around and functioning how they're supposed to and they do this by changing Gene transcription that happens when the alpha estrogen receptor gets stimulated and there's a cute picture of a mitochondria at the bottom okay so hormone replacement therapy um there are so many metab disturbances that happen with the loss of estrogen and one thing that happens like I said earlier is insulin resistance and there is a significant risk of metabolic syndrome when patients go through menopause um we know that estrogen is essentially anti-inflammatory so there's a there is a relationship between the insulin resistance that develops and kind of a lowgrade inflammatory State um so I am a huge fan of estrogen replacement now in the current guidelines put out by the North American menopause society and the American College of OBGYNs estrogen therapy is not an uh an FDA approved therapy for prevention of cardiovascular disease and prevention of diabetes but in the studies the patients that take estrogen have less cardiovascular disease less diabetes less osteoporosis less coloral cancer and in the estrogen only arms actually had less breast cancer which is the most common cancer that gets brought up when we talk about hormone replacement therapy so estrogen has an extremely important role now for many many many years my mother when she was becoming menopausal there were some large trials that came out that scared a lot of practitioners and a lot of patience away from use of hormone therapy and we're really starting to see the pendulum swing now in the other direction menopause is kind of getting its Limelight right now women in this room will live more than 40% of their life postmenopausally that's like darn near half so you know what used to happen is the lifespan wasn't very long and we didn't live a lot past menopause so nobody wanted to talk about like longevity and aging but because cardiovascular disease is the number one killer of women we have to understand the role that estrogen plays in in our metabolic health and I'm a huge fan of hormone replacement therapy and it's hard for me to know if my mom maybe would have been offered that if her for C CAC score wouldn't have been 1900 it's hard to know okay I'll probably have like 5 minutes for questions if you guys are coming up with those in your brain but this is my next case report so my husband is here he's down here hi um Dave already knows this story I don't uh it'll be a whole presentation hopefully one day but five six years ago my husband and I um this was actually before my mom got her Corner calcium we decided to go get coronary calcium scans we were in our in our late 30s and uh of course I thought that they would both come back with a score of zero We Were Young we were pretty healthy um my score was zero and his was not zero it was like 186 is that right um so we both kind of panicked to be honest because we thought it would be zero and it wasn't now his grandfather dropped dead of a heart attack when he was in this 50s so there certainly could be a risk you know a familial risk there um and he didn't eat the greatest diet growing up but at this point in our life we were exercising we were working out and his lipid panel was beautiful his Labs I mean everything he's he's beautiful but his Labs look great too um so of course what was recommended to us is that he start a Statin that he start aspirin therapy and that he eat a lowfat diet um so uh like Karen did earlier I mean we kind of doubled down and we just said we're going to stick to our ketogenic diet at the time it was actually very meat based lots of butter lots of saturated fat everything they told us not to do and um from talking to experts in the space they said well the the rate of progression is what's important so repeat the scan in 5 years so we anxiously waited five years and he went to get the scan repeated and we were both really nervous when he went to get the second scan um he actually went to a different hospital to get the second scan so this complicates the story but his cac's came back at zero so then we're like well this is interesting like did you reverse your coronary calcium or was the first scan wrong like we're really confused so then we sent him back to the hospital to get a CT angiogram because if we did reverse his calcium score to zero the question would be is how much soft blacka is there um maybe we just pulled calcium out and there's a bunch of soft athomas in his in his vessels so he went into the CT angio and his arteries were crystal clear which was very reassuring to us um so we're currently having people look at his original scan to see if it's real because if it's real then it'll be the next case report here at the citizen Science Foundation meeting um the only thing he added besides the ketogenic diet was um vitamin D3 and K2 um that was the only supplement that he added but we did start to do um probably more magnesium in our diet um he did some sauna therapy and all the weird things as biohacker people do um so time will tell but hopefully that'll be the next story I tell you guys so okay we have three minutes and 20 seconds for questions if anybody has questions uh the question is is hormone therapy contraindicated with a family history of breast cancer and that is correct it is not contraindicated um personal history of breast cancer we wouldn't use it um but if you have a family history it does not mean that you're you're not a candidate for it there is no basic science research that shows that estrogen or progesterone causes a breast cell to turn into a cancer cell that mutation happens likely through some other mechanism but a breast cell when it first turns into a cancer cell it maintains its receptors so it maintains its estrogen and progesterone receptors until it mutates further so if you have a breast cancer cell in your breast right now that we can't see with mamogram or MRI I can't feel it you can't feel it because it's not big enough and I give you hormones therapy it could make it grow and that's what happens a lot of times is somebody will start therapy get diagnosed and they're like whoop see took estrogen got breast cancer so that's what we thought for a really long time but no you you would still be a candidate should every post-menopausal patient be on hormone therapy the vast majority of patients who are within 10 years of menopause the pros likely outweigh the cons it's an individual discussion I mean like I said the pendulum is really swinging and for my you know standpoint the patient really has to want to do it I mean I have patients that are convinced it's going to do something in that case then we just don't do it but for the vast majority of patients within 10 years of menopause it's a good idea to consider it after 10 years the benefits aren't as robust it does not mean that if you're 10 years past menopause you can't do it but it's much better in mitigating risk than reversing existing metabolic disease hormone is my mom taking hormone replacement so of course um she was very late to the game because of her osteopenia we actually did put her on a short stint of estrogen and testosterone replacement and we actually saw a significant Improvement in Her Bones so she did it for a short while um to help her muscles and her bones but there was a lot of question with her cardiovascular disease if it was a good idea or not and the unfortunate part is we don't have that literature So my poor mother was sitting there like in a Las Vegas casino deciding to put money on red or black legitimately because we don't have randomized control trials where we take people with significant heart disease and put half of them on estrogen and half of them not and find out what happens and I think most cardiologists would be scared to do that um but we know what estrogen does I mean I just told you it's a vasodilator it stabilizes the endothelium but with oral estrogen replacement there is an increased risk of thrombosis because it increases clotting factors but we don't see that with transdermal so like through the skin so my question you know in a study is would transdermal estrogen therapy be helpful to these patients but I cannot tell you that answer thank you Jamie about

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 4qZ3xTjR0jo (https://youtu.be/4qZ3xTjR0jo) ===

um I have to tell you there's going to be something a little different with this next one um Dr Vincent Ben Biko that's right you have to learn that just like the rest of us has been a leading figure in health and fitness for decades pioneering slow resistance training and emphasizing the link between diet and exercise but before I get on to the prompt of to please welcome him I actually want to share with you a personal story I've asked him to give me a few minutes of his speech so that I can share this with you Dr Ben as he's known no joke has changed my life see my entire life I've as I would say have gotten by I've done things like say Marathon running I make sure I walk a lot and in many respects among my engineer friends I look like a fitness God but I'm going to be honest you don't need any tickets for my gun show it's you're you're good you're fine but I understand and you should know this as well that maintaining strength is important especially as you get older and so while I've always managed to keep things going on the cardio sense somewhat I've never really gotten into strength training frankly because it's boring to me and timec consuming and as I've gotten older I've been more worried also about injury you know I've had other middle-aged friends going dang it I need to get back to the gym they go back to the gym they work out hard then they actually get some pretty serious injury that they keep so I had these two problems that kept me away from strength training time because I wanted to be short in fear of having injury and I saw Dr Ben's talk through one of uh Doug's conferences and I was very impressed and I was chatting with him about it and I said so what does it really take if I'm trying to get the minimum viable he said I've got the program just takes like 15 minutes twice a week and like God it sounds like everything you ever see on TV well I'm telling you for the last 10 months which is the longest I've ever maintained any strength training twice a week I've met Dr Ben on my iPad that's our appointed time and for 15 to 20 minutes I do this workout and I have to say it has truly changed my life now here's the kicker in no way am I being compensated or is there any affiliation or anything part of why I feel so compelled to tell you this today is because not one time in spite of every offer I've made has Dr Ben allowed me to compensate him he said that this was something he wanted to be able to do as another pay it forward in my direction and I'm just so appreciative of him being able to help me out on a personal level so with that please welcome for me Dr [Applause] Ben all right I've got I've got a little froggy voice so please forgive me or not um I I I'm thinking back it's it's been about 50 years since I did my first one of these conferences um I I was the young buck on the Block then now look at me anyway uh I'm going to go into excuse me again if I'm froggy I'm going to go into the lipid energy model let me get my clicker here um I I assumed this was going to be a very scientific meeting usually my talks are kind of Baseline for the average Schmo and but hopefully some science this one I've gone a little bit scientific so if I bore you I don't know there's some stuff you could do on your phone or something but uh and like I say it's it's been a such a long time since I started the world has changed so much you know I was thinking about all the terminology for people a he and a she and an IT and a they and whatever the hell it is so I come up with this one I said what do you call a guy who's attracted to both sexes but neither sex is attracted to [Applause] him by himself all right let's see if I can work this thing okay so we know about the lipid energy model maybe we don't know about the lipid energy model but to me metabolism is all about energy okay um and I think if we're testing or or getting metrics about metabolism it would behoove us to do it in a dynamic way instead of a snapshot of a lab maybe what's the trajectory what's going on so there's no better way to actually assess that I don't think than exercise uh the implication that exercise might provide so how can we drive towards health and away from dysfunction I think that's what our business is really and the lipid energy model to me is just a part of the entire energy model you can't separate the the the glycolytic energy model okay this muscle fiber chart if anybody knows me I put this in every talk I can because and I'm going to try to spend some time on this hopefully I won't lose anybody I actually teach this um slide at Medical School to orthopedists and uh all kinds of g u MDS to try to have them understand what's going on with exercise okay exercise is really just the manipulation of muscle fiber recruitment so how long do we do it for how intensely how often the recovery understanding the metabolites the energy that goes in in what ratios and what happens metabolically what what are the after effects chronically and acutely all right so let me see if I can get this oh look at me okay all right now there are this is an older designation I like this a lot I use it because we go from type one to 2A to 2 a b to 2B what happens is they are either glycolytic or oxidative and they're almost always meaning they burn sugar and they burn fat but they are almost always in some combination so let's just go with a kind of walking jogging kind of a scenario if I'm hanging around and I'm walking I'm going to use these type 1 fibers they are steady state they don't produce much in the way of lactate or any other thing you could do this for about 8 hours a normal person it it's the least um it produces the least effect on the system it's not taxing however if we want to walk a little bit faster or up an incline we need to produce a little more force a little more power we will recruit upwardly to these next fibers okay so the first ones are pretty much purely Anor robic these fibers start to get into a little Anor robios they get a little Anor robic but they're mostly still aerobic okay if these can't handle load if I want to start to run faster these muscle fibers have to come into play understanding that these fibers would not recruit upwardly okay if they could handle the load so the the the proof of them not being able to handle it is that these muscle fibers come in they're a little more anerobic aerobic as opposed to aerobic anerobic it's a subtle difference but it makes a difference now we start to work a little harder with fuel that's uh let's say more higher octane when we get to the point where we have to work as hard as we can these muscle fibers cannot can no longer handle the demand for energy at the rate that we're demanding it these type 2 B fibers come into play they're the highest glycolytic percentage the lowest fat percentage even though they're still burning fat understanding in this concept please okay whenever these fibers are working the fibers beneath them have to be working as hard as they can if they weren't they wouldn't recruit upwardly okay so they're on you're still what makes high-intensity exercise really metabolically so demanding is that we are trying to overcome inhibitions of glycolytic metabolism aerobically okay so that's why it becomes so tough there's a lot of inhibition going up and down these things all right so again endurance high endurance of course if if we're just walking we have higher endurance as we go faster a little less endurance and as if we're working as hard as we possibly can you have low endurance if I ask you to Sprint you're not going a mile okay strength these don't need much strength just kind of superficial uh Force promotion as we need more and more strength or speed or power we go down the line okay but remember these fibers are trying as hard as they can before they recruit this way it's called orderly recruitment that happens in all humans and these muscle fibers and the metabolism the aerobic metabolism that they fuel by is still trying to work as we get into this anerobic uh purely Anor robic phase excuse me okay so the lipid energy model is uh magnified clarified through exercise lens lipid energy I don't think can be separated from carbohydrate energy I mean there's a whole energy deal going on and you'll see that in this U transition through exercise um so the transitions I've set up this next this next slide I'm going to spend some time on um how is the lipid energy model affected in this next slide and I'll show you what happens with Progressive exercise okay now oh this is come out that came out better than I thought okay um if you see up here we have different I've uh categorize this into three phases of exercise phase one phase two phase three and you see this vertical line okay that's how we designate and then we can refer from this this all these uh responses to exercise we can refer right back to that muscle fiber recruitment page these are all connected so here's what happens when we exercise progressively okay we're starting at rest and we're gradually increasing increasing up to high intensity to what we call maybe V2 Max which is something else I could do a whole another talk on but all right so uh oxygen if I do this does that come up on that screen no okay all right so uh which constantly utilizing exchanging more oxygen as we increase intensity when we get to this level right about here you have about 2 MLS uh mmls uh of lactate we start to build a little lactate but we can still utilize more oxygen until we get to this very Point our V2 Max so you see there's pretty much a linear progression uh of utilizing oxygen as the intensity gets higher okay uh by the way if we're looking at here we're probably looking at type a uh type 2 type 2 a in here type 2 a maybe type 2 B but up here type 2 B muscle fibers high intensity okay that's where we're going this directly correlates to that graph uh that I showed you before um expired oxygen okay so when we're hanging around we're breathing in more oxygen than we need but as we start to demand a little more then we're expiring less oxygen because we're using more of it and at some point we're expiring more more as as we get into this beginning of anobi losis okay we're expiring a little more because we can't use it which just too much for us to handle we can't translate it into muscle action with regard to CO2 there's a constant increase in CO2 a little bit of what we call Breakaway here and it keeps going straight up so we're uh retaining more and more CO2 which carbon dioxide which means we're in an acetic State as far as expiring CO2 we expire a lot a lot a lot more more and more because we're breathing more grading more and when we get to this second anerobic threshold I think that's waserman and 7 the8 describe that um when we get to that threshold we can't even expire it anymore and now it builds up to this lactic acid gets to be uh insurmountable this is respiratory rate okay point uh7 to 1.0 means pure sugar pure fat Okay um um and as we get more and more intense and use more and more of the iranic anerobic fibers this respiratory quotient goes way up okay almost exclusively burning um glucose glycogen heart rate okay so the heart is trying to stay up with the demand that the muscles are making understand exercise has local and Global effects and and responses so globally your lungs and your cardiovascular system are trying to deliver more and more and more energy oxygen okay and they keep going up even though at some point we can't extract any more oxygen at the sight of the working muscles so this keeps going up up up until this is where we reach failure we just can't extract any more for the any more oxygen okay this is ventilation this is breathing rate of breathing okay you'll see at the start of this phase to when we get a little bit of the Anor robic aerobic fibers starting to contract to work there's a little bit of what we call a breakaway this is described by McDougall as anerobic threshold meaning it's the beginning of Anor robios which gets confusing because M uh waserman says that the anerobic threshold is this Breakaway but in any case this is where it starts you're about four M MLS here uh and about eight here and then it goes through depending on your conditioning how much um lactate you can use and this is this is lactate okay so in the beginning there's a little bit of lactate built up but it's buffered by by carbonate it's not you can do it mitochondria have no problem with that stuff then we get a little bit of a breakaway here on lactate when the again the anerobic fibers the type 2ab the type 2B fibers come into play then when we get into real anerobic then this lactate just goes through the roof and at some point we can't convert it to pyad we're screwed okay it's over now I know that's a lot but my my point basically for this whole thing is is look at all the things that are going on with energy gas exchange uh metabolites enzymatically it's a lot of stuff going on that we can measure progressively through the application of exercise okay okay so lipid energy models can be magnified clarified if we had adopt some uh exercise input um did I go backwards here yeah I think I did all right hang on I'm not that right apparently okay there's that muscle fiber chart again in case you forgot it okay so the three phases of I call the Holy Trinity of metabolism and exercise metabolism I I've showed you the chart of what happens so in the phase one again there's a lower fraction of oxygen expired more CO2 produce and expired V2 is up lactate uh increases a little bit it right now we are producing a little bit of lactate but very little and the respiratory quoti is low like around in the sevens for normal healthy person might mitochondria type one fibers maybe type 2 way can handle this kind of work all day all right this is not a problem that's that phase one uh Jesus yeah oh I see so up means up and down means down all right all right phase two this transition phase I think is pretty important um at lactate seems to uh increase above 2 MLS uh it can be buffered by by carbonate I told you a lot of this stuff the reason I'm stretching this out a little is because I thought I had 15 minutes to talk and Dave was going to take four to introduce me by the way Dave thank you for that the check the check is in the mail forget this compensation crap all right um so this Phase 2 is that described by waserman as the anerobic threshold when the anerobic stuff starts to happen um as the Crossovers mitochondria needs some help now to start to to to continue to produce ATP um from the cytool phase three anerobic increas in intensity uh the type 2 a type 2 B fibers are recruited 70 to 100% Max V2 and heart rate continue to rise until performance failure lactate begins at four Ms and increases throughout until V2 Max ventilation V vco2 so breathing rate carbon dioxide uh uh in the blood still rise up to try to compensate for the rise in lactate uh expired CO2 decreases and expired oxygen Rises which means we can no longer get rid of the CO2 okay which is now going to be blocking our further use of of fuel and we're expiring more oxygen because we can't use it we can't use it anymore we have to get rid of it okay this is purely purely high intensity I would call this 200% more of more than V2 Max okay what's interesting when we start to get these measurements at this demand this is the kind of work that Dave does and that I do 15 minutes twice a week okay when you get to this level of demand and muscle fiber recruitment um the respiratory qu quotient approaches 1.0 so it's almost purely glycolytic even though those lower fibers are trying to deliver energy oxidatively okay but uh what's interesting in most non-exercise physiologists and most of them don't know is that at this level about 30% of the oxygen extracted is used by the ventilatory muscle so we're breathing so hard that we can't deliver oxygen anymore to the working muscles because the ventilatory muscles are working so hard they need oxygen so that's why some of these um measurements get screwed up uh the mitochondria and cytool can no longer deliver energy at the required rate they can't make it okay therefore mechanical failure and that's mcdougall's anerobic threshold in 79 by the way these guys that I refer to McDougall and waserman I know these guys I did work with them that's when this stuff happened uh uh so the role of EX of EX lipid energy model um I think it it affects demand obviously but I also think it it affects um Supply based on the conditioning that exercise could provide uh importantly in lipid especially in lipid metabolism exercise communicates and drives at atpo sites okay so myocytes through vesicles deliver messages about utilization of fat uh breakdown into fatty acids things like that this I think is really important I've had this discussion with Dave a few times exercise drives LPL lipoprotein lipas and hormone sensitive lipases responses and levels so what does that mean these are just enzymatic uh influences that either tell muscle cells really to store fat or to utilize and burn fat and that's very important as we try to condition our people to be better fat burners these numbers should change we should become and high-intensity exercise does this in Spades okay it induces hormone sensitive light Pace up regulation which means a higher rate of fat burning so if someone says to you you know you can't outrun a bad diet okay that's that's beautiful the sky is blue what else you know you're telling me but um but if I can increase this which I can okay if I can communicate from muscle cells to atyes to release fatty acids which I can through exercise okay then I think we got something exercise bypasses reduces the insulin elevation for glucose translocation so what happens we have glucose in the blood we want to store it healthfully in the muscles and the liver why can't we maybe we're a little bit insulin resistant exercise can bypass some of those translocation I would call them toll booths before we can get and produce a store uh glucose in into glycogen uh through amk again I don't hope I'm not too much deep in the weeds but that's what happens and we know that exercise can bypass even in type ones can bypass the need for ex enous insulin um exercise reduces oh what was that welcome okay let's try this again I almost made [Laughter] it okay okay so here's some thoughts and questions that I have I'll leave you with how is this LPL hsl regulation affected Supply demand or both I think it's both okay an exercise again can magnify the significance of that differentiation in the enzyme mure how can mitochondria be trained to compensate and respond to increased demand and metabolic health I firmly believe that we can train mitochondria just like we train muscle fibers in fact if we look at the the uh responses to those different levels of exercise that I showed you on the muscle fiber chart we can see that the mitochondrial morphology the way mitochondria line up in the cell uh is different for type 2B muscle fibers and between the type one and 2 a there's a different um geography they actually stack up more deeply in one they separated in another so I think we can actually train mitochondria to do what we want I think we can train mitochondria to be more aerobically efficient the best way to do that is to have them recover from anab anabolic failure so we can train the best way to train aerobically is to produce Anor robic failure during that recovery we will get uh we will approach 70 purely fat burning during the recovery from anobi so if anybody says again exercise has nothing to do with losing fat they're silly that's the nicest word I can think of okay uh that's how fat fat oxidation can be influenced by exercise I already went over that vesicles from myocytes to atyes how does this translate into rest resting and active RQ r q is respiratory quotient I think that most since most of us are in the business of reducing fat losing weight fat um becoming more ketogenic fat um I think that RQ God why why do I do this what is going okay I'm sorry I think that RQ respiratory quoti is the ratio of oxygen I'm sorry ratio of fat to carbohydrate that we burn if we're low let's let's say you have a patient that's insulin resistant and their resling RQ might be 95 0.95 let's use the number if we can get that resling RQ down to 85 we have drastically increased the the probability of them utilizing fat oxidizing fat and not being resistant and that's important I think all of us are trying to do that I don't know why we don't use uh I don't know why we don't use RQ and when we promote this RQ change respiratory quo change through exercise chronically then what happens is the adaptation happens in a homeostatic way we've made an improvement in that person's fat metabolism so lastly uh one thought I have here is um how can we not appreciate the role of muscle system in affecting the related health status involving the lipid energy model I think we have to take it into account I hope I've provided some evidence hopefully not too much in the weeds but there's a lot of good stuff that happens when you do exercise the is the most good stuff happens when you do high-intensity exercise not to be feared everybody can do high-intensity exercise it's just something that you're not used to so my rehab patient my 400 lb first time moving off the couch person and my worldclass athlete all have the relative challenge of doing something a little more intense than they're used to and they would upwardly adapt and that's what we're all about thank you oh one other thing since since we're in Sin City I have to tell you a quick joke um this guy goes into a bar has this big suitcase on top of the bar B ther says what's that he said that's uh something I wanton he said what do you mean you won he takes out this piano and a little one foot tall guy in a tuxedo plays the piano beautifully the guy goes wow where the hell did you get that he says well look in the suitcase there's a a Genie in a Bottle yeah yeah okay he says yeah give anything you want one wish she'll Grant it so the B says all right give me says I I wish for 100 bucks next thing you know Ducks little tiny Ducks all over the freaking Place ceiling the parking lot the roof so the guy says see the genie is pretty good he says yeah he says but I didn't ask him for a million Ducks I asked him for a million bucks the guy says yeah that's the only problem that Genie doesn't hear that well he says you think I asked him for a 12in Pianist right [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: s-FxXzNDQVw (https://youtu.be/s-FxXzNDQVw) ===

Malcolm Amman uh brings a personal journey into heart disease prevention exploring the impact of diet on lipid profiles please welcome Malcolm [Applause] acman check sounds good May 5th 2008 I'm uh I'm at the airport with my wife and uh we've just got back from the trip of a lifetime to the Galapagos Islands and uh while we're waiting for our bags I see on my cell that my sister-in-law has called so I I call her up and I say so uh what's happening and she says uh guess where your brother is I say I don't know where she says uh he's the hospital and he's going to be undergoing quadruple bypass heart surgery well my brother has that surgery and it's a success thankfully but let's go back five months to January 2008 it's a new year and my brother thinks time to get back in shape so he gets on his treadmill and he starts experiencing some unusual discomfort in his shoulders and chest and uh he's thinking you know maybe this is angina so he composes a letter to our family doctor and meets with him in February 2008 now I want to explain one thing at this point we have known our family doctor for over 30 years so he has the perception that we are slim fit and active and at age 58 we don't have heart disease so he completely brushes off my brother's notion that it could be angina and says to him you know what it's all in your head so get back on your effing treadmill well a few more months go by my brother is still having that discomfort so he contacts a fellow he knows through his church who's happens to be a cardiologist and he's describing his symptoms and the cardiologist says myON I do this all the time you have angina I want you to take two aspirin go straight to the hospital and get yourself checked out so my brother does that he gets an angram which shows extensive heart disease and he undergos quadruple bypass surgery well I don't waste any time I make an appointment with our family doctor and uh fortunately he wasn't there he was on vacation which was fine with me so I I end up seeing a female doctor and she was good she was compassionate and she says to me uh malom as an identical twin you must be feeling very vulnerable I said yeah you got that right and right there in that moment I became a citizen scientist with the intention of learning everything I could to avoid my brother's fate I ran out and got some books including this one called reverse heart disease Now by a cardiologist Dr Steven Sinatra an excellent book I'll be referring to it periodically so June 2008 that female doctor sends me for my own cardio workup and at that point everything was fine they didn't find anything Troublesome but in May 2010 after undergoing a routine treadmill test with my cardiologist he comes out and says Malcolm you flunked it I was literally sh I literally shaking when he told me that so I'm thinking what am I going to do next so I'm thinking back to Dr Sinatra's book and uh I'm learning about something called a 64 slice coronary CT angiogram so in July 2010 I convinced my cardiologist to let me get that test and this is about a month after my 61st birthday and I come in with a calcium score of 479 which is high and it puts me in the 75th percentile of risk for a future cardiovascular event furthermore the radiologist is looking at the CT images and she says Malcolm I I see a pretty concerning blockage in your left main artery so she says I would be watching you like a hawk so at this point I know I have heart disease and I know exactly its extent August and September of 2015 I start feeling I start feeling some angina on my walk it's fairly transient it comes and goes so I make an appointment with my cardiologist he throws me on the treadmill I felt wine and I guess what I guess he liked what he saw and he comes out and he says uh Malcolm any insurance company would write you a policy for $1 million surprise eight months later May 6 2016 this is almost eight years to the day that my brother had his bypass surgery I'm walking and I'm feeling considerable angina discomfort r ating down into my chest and down my left arm so what I do is I don't waste much time I get to the hospital and like my brother I get a angiogram and it reveals heart disease and particularly concerning was a 90% blockage in the left main artery which is a very very critical artery and I undergo a triple bypass now let's look at things from the Viewpoint of metabolic health I'm going to go back now to 2008 this is just shortly after my brother had his bypass surgery I'm thinking you know what I should go on a low-fat diet in fact one doctor said to me Malcolm try the DASH diet that's a pretty fat phobic diet so I do that and I would have to conclude that it was a failed experiment and here's why a few months later November 2008 I get my lipids done my trigs are higher than they've ever been in my life which isn't good my HDL is lower than it had ever been in my life which also isn't good the trig HDL ratio is 3.7 which is nothing to write home about in fact it's probably reflective of insulin resistance metabolically speaking you'd want to see a nice trig HDL ratio of around one Christmas 2011 my wife buys me the book Wheat Belly by cardiologist Dr William Davis I take to that book like a fish to water I just I liked his low carb approach wheat and grain elimination closely watching blood sugar and I adopt his approach for a number of months and then I get my next round of blood work done in October 2012 and I am shocked because I see that my cholesterol and LDL have risen to higher than I've ever seen before in my life I have no idea why it's happening I'm kind of worried about it and of course at that time I have no concept that I might be a lean mass hyperr what about fasting insulin I go to my family doctor I say you know I've been reading in Sinatra's book about fasting insulin I'd like to get that and um he says to me uh Malcolm why would you want to get that done when your hemoglobin A1c and blood sugar are perfectly normal I say to him well yeah those numbers may look good but how much insulin is it taking to keep those numbers in check I have to tell him that insulin insulin could predict metabolic issues years and years before it ever shows up in the blood sugar and uh to demonstrate that I'm going to show you an experiment that I call me and my twin and a friend here it is it's more recent it's March 2018 we all get tested by the same doctor our fasting glucose values are quite similar hemoglobin A1 C's 5.4 right across the board but I'm on a low carb diet and My fasting insulin comes in at 4.7 which I consider to be quite good I like to see it under five my brother was trying to moderate his carb intake to some degree and his fasting insulin comes in at 8.7 that's my twin but my friend now he's Italian you know what that means lots of a pasta and bread and sugary tomato sauce he comes in with a not a very good fasting instant at 14 14.2 so it's pretty clear that even though we have similar looking sugar values insulin tells a completely different story and I will point out that my friend is 20 years younger than me and my twin what about genetics everyone always says to me well you know your father had heart disease your twin brother needed the surgery you know it's kind of runs in your family doesn't it I say well let's see so I'm going to take us back now to 2009 again I'm reading in Sinatra's book about LP little a so I go to my family doctor and I say I want to get P little a tested it's a familial genetic risk marker for heart disease it could even be an independent risk factor and he says uh Malcolm I'm not going to do that test why not well I don't know what it is so I'm not going to test it and yeah that's the same family doctor that told my brother to get back on his effing treadmill in 2012 I see a new cardiologist that I'm referred to and again I'm quite excited to show him my 64 size scan and things like that he's Malcolm I I don't really care what your arteries look like yeah I thought that was kind of strange coming from a cardiologist Ju Just tell me your calcium score so I do and he says and I quote you don't have diabetes you don't smoke you're not overweight you're physically active and your lipid profile is probably in the lower third of the population so the only reason for you to have vascular disease is family history and the only thing we can do about that we got to bring your cholesterol down by at least 50% with statins and I just turned to said no sir I will not take a Statin so he he puts his hand out to me in a parting gesture and says nice to meet you I can't do anything for you and you are flying in the face of absolutely overwhelming scientific evidence but am I well I've had 23 in me done it's a genetic test and it says that I'm at typical or perhaps decreased risk of heart disease so what is the problem I blame it on diet me and my twin ate horribly growing up and well into our adult years lots of Highly processed food junk food high carb food snacking all the time constantly provoking our blood sugar and Insulin creating processes of glycation and inflammation and damaging Our arteries I think if you do that for 50 or 60 years you're going to have a problem in January 2018 I went to even a lower carb diet more animal-based my brother didn't but I did and I saw my uh lipid levels cholesterol levels go up yet another Quantum Leap so it's quite clear to me that I'm a hyper responder and the question is should I be worried about that well that's one of the reasons I'm here might be one of the reasons why you're here but uh I'm cautiously optimistic that I'm on the right track so next time you go to your family doctor and uh he tells you that your symptoms are all in your head or your cardiologist wants to do nothing more than prescribe a Statin because after all LDL is the only thing that matters or you know people are telling you that that's genetic you can't do much about it you have to become your own citizen scientist and do everything you can to manage your heart disease risk whether you know you have it or not you got to do your research you got to kind of become like a CEO of your own health that's that's what I did and I can tell you I'm never going to go back to the high carb sugar spiking insulin provoking diet that led to heart disease for me and my twin [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Ic8m3BbJ1x4 (https://youtu.be/Ic8m3BbJ1x4) ===

Dr Steven hussy guides clients and health attainment strategies as a chiropractor in functional medical medicine practitioner please welcome Dr Steven [Applause] hussy hello so uh we've had a lot of talk about biochemistry today uh and yesterday uh and I want to talk about a little bit different perspective a more biophysics perspective uh mainly the biophysics of water um and how that um uh plays a role uh in our bodies um I put a lot in this presentation probably too much so I'll apologize in advance if I go very fast um but it all relevant and I and I think it will help so let's go so ever since College I've always been very health conscious um I ate a whole food diet exercised regularly avoided toxin exposure and managed my blood sugars very well as a type 1 diabetic uh since the age of nine I eventually found my way to a low carb diet which made type one very easy to control but I got these numbers you know these lean mass hyper responder numbers but always in the context of low inflammation um so I thought I was doing pretty good and then in June 2020 I had a c score done and it was zero so I'm feeling pretty good about things right and based on this information um these studies that are coming out with many people you know here today uh in the context of you know metabolic Health low inflammation these higher numbers not so much of an issue so this is kind of what I was um basing my decisions on to keep doing this diet and that I was doing well however January 5th 2021 I had a massive heart attack uh Widowmaker heart attack uh you can see the blockage oh there um and the the um Interventional cardiologist said that he saw no atheroslerosis and my arteries except for this clot everything else looked pretty clean um so I'm sitting there wondering what the heck happened right so there it was um the echocardiogram after my heart attack showed that the ejection fraction of my heart which is supposed to be 50 to 70 uh was 35% to 40% uh and the uh tissue of my heart was severely hypokinetic meaning not conducting the signal very well and further uh about few months after the heart attack I started noticing that my leg every time I would you know walk or try to run or something like that um became very painful and I had severe stenosis uh in the artery of my leg right here from the uh angio seal device they used to seal the artery um because the morning I had the heart attack my leg was fine uh and it changed the Flor Dynamics into my leg and I developed AOS crosis there so even walking through the airport fast my leg would hurt so using this model this biochemistry model um I was doing pretty good right but it failed me um and so to reject one Paradigm without simultaneously substituting another is to reject science itself so maybe that was my mistake I used one Paradigm to assess things and it didn't work and it led me into this journey of figuring out what I missed so a different par of I'm looking at things um what happens in AOS sceris heart attacks and strokes so heart attacks and strokes I think we can all agree at the end result of that is some clot forms blocks flow of blood and we get an issue and atherosclerosis I would argue is a similar process just to less extreme so this study here found that um the vast majority of atic plaque was 87% clotting tissue um same kind of tissue that forms if you cut your skin and and you get a clot this study here fibrinogen or fibrin appears to be a multi potential component of atherogenesis intervening at virtually all stages of lesion development um so fi and being and clotting tissue this study here says it right in the title platelets which are clotting factors or um clotting cells um modulate atherogenesis progression of AOS quatic plaques this study here is a fascinating or tic research article is fascinating uh Theory of some researchers um making the claim very well that you know uh plaque rupture is not actually the driver of heart attacks it's really um clotting tissue or clotting factors uh we should really be focusing on those and then Malcolm Kendrick has put um a whole book out there called the clot thickens arguing for clotting tissue he's written this paper here um arguing that atherosclerosis and in stages of that heart attacks and strokes are clotting tissue clotting is forming so why does the body initiate clots or if you cut your skin it wants to stop the bleeding so clotting tissue forms a scab right same kind of thing can happen in the artery if there's damage uh the body wants to stop you know the potential artery from rupturing um and it initiates clotting tissue so in 1856 a guy named Rudolph verow um claimed and and based on his research that the things that cause clotting which are endothelial damage damage to the lining of the artery when elements of blood uh Clump together or when we get stagnant interrupted blood flow uh and that's you know still held you know pretty generally accepted in medicine today this is these are the things that uh can induce a clotting response so here's a a bunch of boxes of things that have been shown to damage the lining of the artery or interfere uh with healing of the lining of the artery once that damage has happened um so if without insulin signaling we don't get the signal for growth and repair and that interferes with the um the ability of the lining of the artery to um repair itself but there's many things on this list um things we talk about a lot here you know the fluctuating blood sugars glucose based metabolism can all increase inflammation endotoxemia was mentioned um toxin exposure has been mentioned lots of different things a arroy sedimentation rate is a measurement of How likely or how readily your blood cells Clump together red blood cells and it's been shown to be a very good marker of heart attack stroke heart failure and atherosclerosis and blood flow or poor blood flow stagnant blood flow or in the case of arhythmia interrupted blood flow has also been shown to be an indicator of uh clotting risk or uh likelihood to clot they they call it uh uh residence time of blood in an area so it's a difference between you know a flowing river and a stagnant puddle I would argue that this world doesn't tell us much about about clotting it can tell us lots of things about metabolism uh it can tell us you know if there's some inflammation if we get more damaged particles um but yeah it doesn't tell us much about clotting so we cannot solve our problems with the same level of thinking that created them so we all know this story of anel keys and now he created this problem uh the cholesterol was the problem um and I think that analyzing lipids are not going to give us the solution uh to what actual causes um heart disease so we need a new level of thinking and I would say that that's water we're all told that we are a large percentage water and it turns out that water has some very unique properties um and so water um well what's called exclusion Zone water or structured water or bound water um there's lots of different names for it in the research because lots of different researchers have come across it and kind of called it something different um but there's many research that have looked into this um the one who's made it most famous is Geral pool University of Washington and he's a bioengineer which is interesting an engineer coming across this but Gilbert Lang Alberton Georgie Mayan hoe James C uh Jim Ashman there's many researchers that have come across this idea that water has these unique properties so what is exclusion Zone water so when water holds energy uh which it can absorb energy radiant energy and it gets next to a water loving surface it actually structures itself onto that surface so what it does is one of the the oxygen and hydrogen one of them they cleave off this hydrogen and these team up with other oxygen and hydrogens and form this lattice like structure um and when they form like that they kind of form these planer um uh panel things and they kind of line up like this and this area here this structured water it's structured because it's more like a gel um it's not quite ice like solid it's not liquid it's more like a gel like the consistency of a raw egg white it's what I would describe it as and so uh in Pollock's work um he found that this phenomena does happen on vascular endothelia structured water does form on the lining of the artery and so it's kind of depicted here it's formed on the outside and those hydrogens that are cleaved off are pushed into the middle and so here we have a depiction endothelial cell glyx which I'm glad Dr Diamond brought up uh and then on top of that we have this layer of structured water which this picture is a little bit inaccurate which we're going to see in a minute these authors didn't understand something about structured water um but this is kind of the best picture that I found of it and then in um uh um Malcolm Kendrick's paper he mentions this anti-coagulant gel layer on top of the glyx so the reason that it's called exclusion Zone water is because when these kind of planer things line up they don't line up like exactly stacked on top of one another they line up kind of offset like that and it makes it so there's a very small space for anything to penetrate that um and so um Dr Pollock in his work notes that the protein albumin was excluded it could not penetrate this this exclusion Zone water it almost becomes this impenetrable barrier and that's unique or that's important because protein is the smallest or albumin is the smallest protein in the blood so if we look at the size of albumin 3.8 naners what are some things in the blood that are bigger than that red blood cell is way too big it's not going to penetrate exclusion Zone water if it's intact and healthy an LDL also way too big htl too big sodium ion is is actually also too big um and so the cut off is sodium potassium so this is right here potassium can penetrate structur water can get into that little space sodium cannot which anybody familiar with cellular physiology hopefully is like oh my gosh sodium pottassium pump right so is it a pump or is it structured water that's creating that cellular diversion um or distribution and nitrate ion can also penetrate as well it's small enough which is important nitric oxide secreted by the endothelium and so the it's basic on this Hoffmeister series of size of hydrated ions and so here it is an order and the cut off is here sodium potassium so here is depicted and you can see that the inaccuracy here is that the ldls are depicted in um in the middle of the structured water which would not happen because it's exclusion Zone and so again structured water forms in the outside hydrogen ions in the middle now the other thing about structured water is that when it forms uh like this because the oxygen is a bigger molecule and it's more negative and it's only got one hydrogen now it's a very Electro negatively charged area and those hydrogen ions that line up next to it are very positively charged and you get a positive next to a positive next to a negative that's a battery okay we all have the little batteries we put them in there we organize the the um positive and negative charge a certain way and they've actually shown in poock lab that you can um put an electrode in the negative area and the positive area and you can power a light bulb and also this um discharge separation that creates energy has been shown to create flow so they put a water-loving tube or hydrophilic tube in water uh they put they put it in the water and they shine radiant light on it and the water just starts to flow with no pump acting on it whatsoever and Dr poock says that flow of this nature could P persist indefinitely sustained water flow occurs inevitably in almost any scenario involving ezs and radiant energy this is a video from Dr Pollock's lab showing that structur water does indeed form um on the lining of arteries and that the blood flows after they euthanize the chick they stop the heart from beating the blood continued to flow they put radiant energy on it it continued to move now the other thing is that the lining of the artery is not the only biological surface or water loving surface elements of blood are also water loving surfaces and so structured water forms on elements of blood like red blood cells lipoproteins anything in the blood really and because of that we get this net negative charge around it because structured water is very like negatively charged and they call that Zeta potential okay so what this does is it creates this kind of protective area around the elements of blood and they're attracted to the positive area around them because of the hydrogens but if they get too close to each other these uh like charges don't like each other so they stay evenly spaced uh and they don't Clump together and these are some studies that show that lipoproteins do uh indeed do have a Zeta potential uh which is in place play an important role in lipoprotein structure and their interaction with apol lipoproteins and enzymes so the structured water is particularly important so virt try out and exclusion Zone water easy water protects the artery from damage because it excludes things that are not it easy water prevents hemodynamic changes by keeping blood flowing and moving and easy water prevents hypercoaguability because it keeps things evenly spaced by maintaining Zeta potential however there are things that can break exclusions on water down remember I told you that it's very Electro negatively charged it has a lot of negative charge to donate if something wanted that charge uh and so that's what we know of as uh oxidative stress uh Dr paot calls it an electron hungry process um and so that could be oxidative stress inflammation I call it low body charge because ultimately it's all about in increasing electrons into your body and there's many ways we can do that uh and when we don't have that enough electrons then it can get stolen from structur water it can get broken down so there's uh you know a free radical and so when that happens it breaks down the structured water now leaving access to the glyx and the endothelium and it can also uh when it happens in red blood cells this can they can break down the structure water now they're clumping together because they don't have this barrier keeping them spaced and when we're measuring particle size for LDL uh when they get oxidized and small dense particles they've lost their Z potential and they're more prown to damage yeah um it's a two steps we want to do things that build exclusion Zone water um and we want to avoid things that um damage uh exclusion Zone water so these things all uh cause inflammation and damage the structured water um and radiant energy in the form of infrared light is the number one thing that builds structured water uh according to Dr P lab you can see how much it grew and this is evolutionary consistent because 42% of the sun's rays are infrared so things we can do to create easy water drink good water obviously um avoid toxin exposure glyphosate has been shown to break down structured water avoid non-native electromagnetic fields uh because they reduce EZ 15 to 20% optimize your Cadian Rhythm eat good fats uh grounding and earthing like putting your feet directly on the Earth has been shown to increase data potential and increase blood flow infrared light exposure has been shown to heal the lining of the artery uh exercise to the point of creating heat cold exposure and positive loving relationship expressing Gra attitude has been shown to increase structured water so how did I fa um my diet stayed the same my exercise stayed about the same my stress unfortunately stayed about the same maybe even got worse um and my lipids stayed the same because I stayed on a low carb diet the only thing I did recommended by the hospital or the doctors in the hospital was I was not a blood thinner for six months uh despite the five medications recommended that's all I did I did a lot of infrared sauna I did a lot of grounding and sunlight okay uh and my ejection fraction improved um to 50 to 55% in three months and I was my heart tissue went from um severely a kinetic to mildly hypokinetic and then a year after this uh I got my um uh uh the the ultrasound of my leg it improved to 0 to 49% blocked to 0% blocked in in two years so this I don't think is ever going to tell us exactly what causes heart disease um and we need to change but changes in normative science rarely come from within which is why I'm a huge fan of of uh places or conferences like this so thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: VaJ3OeOhqmY (https://youtu.be/VaJ3OeOhqmY) ===

hi everyone I'm excited to announce tickets are now officially on sale for next year's coai short for the collaborative science conference it'll be held February 8th and 9th at the University of Nevada Las Vegas and it's going to be amazing you can visit cosi.org right now to start your registration just like the last one Kai is a charity fundraising event to benefit the citizen Science Foundation and it's worth emphasizing the organizers the staff and yes even the speakers are coming on their own time and on their own dime all proceeds are helping us fund the next major study and we're almost there as with the previous coai we have six levels of tickets however Please be aware the registration process is in two steps first purchase your conference ticket at cosi.org and second in your confirmation email you will receive a link to complete your registration and have the opportunity to purchase any add-ons there are two add-ons I want to highlight the biggest add-on is something new we're doing this year it's a special alumni event within the conference that takes place over the 90minut lunch breaks for both days it'll feature three presentations each day each from coai 2024 speakers and it's kind of like a conference within a conference like the VIP dinner it does include catered food and thus it will cost extra and seating is limited so be sure to see the details in the add-on page one other notable add-on is access to presentation recordings which will be available the week following the event last and and certainly not least we'll open uh applications for Citizens sign speakers in the coming weeks so please keep an eye out on cosi.org for these and other announcements thanks again to everyone for your support I'm excited to see you all here in February

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 6zB0VQHl5ws (https://youtu.be/6zB0VQHl5ws) ===

Peter bastet advocates for ruminant agriculture's role in human nutrition and sustainability sharing knowledge globally please welcome Peter bastet howy everybody H that was all right yeah glad to see you thank you for coming thank you to the organizers everybody the sponsors but most of all thank you for showing up because you're sponsors too and it would be really weird if the room was empty um so yes my name's Peter ballad um I've been fumbling around in the therapeutic carbohydrate reduction space um of one form or another since 2007 um I've been speaking publicly advocating for this since 2010 most of my adult life's been spent in forage agriculture um I have posted a link that can to a folder of all my presentation materials um it will be on the last slide uh and also it's all over my social media and in the hoova app so um points I hope to leave you with today uh the status of Humanity's food supply the reality of malnutrition across the world that the metrics and the word words we use matter and they matter particularly when we get into things conversations about sustainable Food Systems and sustainable health care we uh get into that um the reality that we can encounter or create unintended barriers to adoption of therapeutic carbohydrate reduction or therapeutic nutritional ketosis and the Practical importance of improving our own health and helping others do the same right nobody's coming right it's us um don't Outsource your health care and when you improve your health you are improving the world so first the status of Humanity's food supply it's already plant-based next so I have three fundamental beliefs one is that animal Source foods are essential for human health and flourishing in other words for public health that if we restrict animal Source Foods further we will not improve Public Health number two that Livestock in general ruminants in particular are essential to sustainable Food Systems okay and number three is that a animal Source foods are part of our ancestral heritage and our cultural heritage regardless of where that Heritage Springs from okay so maybe I should just make it clear that meat is an animal Source food but not all animal Source foods are meat and yes beef is a red meat but all red meats are not beef okay so we we need to get better with our language because I think that gets in our way sometimes so let me just spend a bit of time looking at this slide because it's really a shame and a scandal um how many people here are satisfied with 76 g of protein note the air quotes per day that's the US protein in quotes food supply and if you don't understand why I'm putting the scare quotes around protein um in my presentation materials I have a list of resources and references and one of them is a talk that I gave that low carb down under and and it goes into great depth more than I have time for here um but it's not Protein that's just the short thing um and and note Global 34 grams and note that this is even that 76 gram per person per day food supply is only 60% coming from animal Source Foods we're clearly suffering from essential amino acid deficits for a significant portion of the American public let alone globally um and then we shouldn't talk about protein in terms of calories but we do so here's another FAO estimate of the protein Supply in terms of calories per day and in the US 29% of our daily calories come from Pro animal protein so 2000 cordan and colleagues released a study of ancestral diets where they said that 30% of calories from animal Source Foods was an ancestral minimum that the ranges were from 30% to 100% with the mean at 70 okay nordhagen four years ago and their colleagues came up with an estimate that said when we drop below 30% of calories from animal Source Foods in a population's diets we see rapidly increasing numerous micronutrient deficiencies we're at 29 a fifth of women of childbearing age in the US are anemic less animal Source food is not a good idea in the US let alone globally so flourishing requires nourishing if we don't feed the brains properly as they develop they never catch up these human beings potential is inhibited from the start and this is not a heavy lift we can do this you know what's so frustrating is this isn't a scientific issue it's a political issue it's a it's a belief system issue it's an economic issue it's all these other things it's not science we have the data okay but let's get aware of the data so we can argue more effectively it's important to remember that you can be overfed and undernourished and maybe what we eat influences what we eat yes come on thank you wow it's way too aong after lunch man that crash is gone so well come on brother I'm with I'm with so all right get up and dance man just up and down the aisle so the problem is that again words mean things and so malnutrition exists in a spectrum and it manifests differently depending on where we are in the world and it can range from stunting and wasting quashi oror anemia uh anemia to obesity type 2 diabetes metabolic syndrome it's all obesity and yet within the communities that deal with food system conversations and food policies they refer to obesity as overnutrition so the conventional wisdom needs to be slain so please keep at it find ways to get that into the literature because it's a desperate thing I'm dealing with people who are quite sincere they're dealing with the information that they were taught so again words mean things the metrics we use mean things and we need to make sure that we know what other people mean when they use a word that we use because it's not always the same definition let me give you an example nutrient density is a real Hot Topic I I twitch a little less now when I hear it I'm recovering per the USDA HHS official dietary guidelines definition of nutrient dense it's explicitly lowfat they don't consider fat a nutrient okay so long as I know what you mean by it then we can have a conversation I sure wouldn't want to agree with that well you apply that I just flashed somebody sorry about that um I mean with this um yeah okay um so you they apply that kind of logic and they come up with this nonsense where they're going to help us poor ignorant citizens figure out what to eat where this is the typical food and this is the nutrient-dense version that we should eat more of so the Frosted Mini Wheats is typical but the unfrosted is nutrient-dense oh but wait it gets better over here we've got butter as being typical vegetable oil sorry not vegetable industrial oil is nutrient dense and and the one that just so soda is the typical and sparkling water is nutrient dense I love me sparkling water it's one of my favorite drinks I rarely get into trouble when I have that at night but WTF nutrient dense I'm just an agronomist somebody helped me out with this stuff I have a phrase B Vine feal matter exactly uh so let's make you know you're driving through the mountains there's always the chance of a rock slide that's why they put the little signs up there right to tell the Rocks where to fall you don't see as many of those in Iowa but let's not go scale in the cliff and kicking rocks loose right some of this stuff is going to happen anyway I'm optimistic I'm not naive well let's see if we can't find a way to have better conversations more meaningful conversations build Bridges with one another so some thoughts you may be the only example they ever see so please make it a good example don't don't won't you be a barrier and maybe we need to spend some time thinking about how adult humans learn and and psychology and how to approach someone right if we're going to work well in this space we're going to walk up against some sincere Highly Educated people starting the conversation with everything you think you know is wrong probably isn't going to go very far and and if I'm remembering it properly depending on how we engage in this process we make may make them more resistant to change so maybe we should spend some time looking into that if we're going to get into this space of advocacy but again the true goal is improving metabolic health for as many people as possible I would say everyone why not dream big so please don't chase anyone run away I'm going to spend more time on this practical importance of improving your own health and helping other people do the same nothing keeps it vital in yourself like seeing other people have the experience and all we're doing for most of us we're not medical professionals I'm certainly not I'm not that kind of doctor I didn't stay at a holiday in express last night let's pass this on in the spirit of generosity let's think about how we can be attractive rather than promotive I mean I don't know about you but when somebody starts really doing the hard cell on me the left hand goes to the back left pocket and I kind of yeah all right later maybe I'll come back to you just maybe not okay so that's one how about this for an idea your local libraries do they have copies of professor bikman's book so buy it I mean I don't know how you do that so find out right find out what they have find out who's in charge at home now you see the difference between Nancy my wife and I is she's the kind of person if she sees a book she wants to read she goes online and sees it if it's in the card catalog at the library that was an acronis wasn't it card Catalog online um I'm an old fart so Sumi um and if they have it you know then she checks it out gets reserved whatever if they don't have it she puts in a request for them to buy it and she's got such a good record of the books that she requests they buy suddenly having six people check you know waiting list on it so they know they can trust her I'm the kind of person if I see a book I want to read I go online to Amazon um it's a difference so are there ways to make sure that the information's available for people who would be looking at various sources um you know grow where your planted Bloom we were planted we're all uniquely qualified and positioned these these are some wonderful pictures from my memory of things I've gotten to do internationally and nationally because of my background because of my experience because of the information you people share with me so I'm just trying to pass it along to them and then I try to bring back information to you like if you're worried about cow burps let me just assure you that if it were possible to have the average adult American with type 2 diabetes eliminate their medication use yeah let's just blue sky this thing let's imagine that such a thing is even possible that would result in a larger reduction in their carbon footprint than if they shifted from a high meat to a vegan diet this is not a scientific issue this is something else so this is this nice native grassland there's lots of plants that make up that healthy grassland lots of diversity and all of them are necessary in their own way and they serve their own function and some are going to grow taller than others that doesn't make one more important than another they're all necessary but from the ground up I think is what I want to push for uh we need people doing the science absolutely we need people affecting policy change absolutely and then for the rest of us you know some people would rather watch a sermon than listen to one so you have no idea who's watching you all the time so what kind of food do you take to the [Applause] potlucks so if we're going to be citizen scientists let's become better citizens [Applause] oh am I that over oh my goodness I'm sorry um talk to me about land grant universities talk to me about the extension service whatever County you live in there's an office you can go to to get information I want people to start working that system backwards I want you to get familiar with who's in that office I want you to then over time start asking them what kind of information do you have for diabetes you know diabetes is a big problem in our community so how can we push this upstream and imagine that you had the possibility to tap into 3140 some offices across the United States that was dedicated to reach all audiences across those communities and that's what we have the chance to do so I hope anybody's interested more information if you're a professional talk to me there's a pilot project that we're trying to form um and I apologize for going long um so here's my social media contact information also the uh URL for the um folder of my presentation materials thank you very much oh

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: e1Qo22AH2MA (https://youtu.be/e1Qo22AH2MA) ===

Joe and Rachel staer share their keto journey and health improvements through motivational storytelling aiming to support others with similar challenges please welcome the two crazy ketos Joe and Rachel thank you Dave before we start we do want to say thank you to Dave for having this conference well we put him in a corner forced him just force him into a corner we've got to have this conference right are you enoy yourself yeah it's awesome and and the other speakers who showed up but more importantly for you guys to to actually be supporting this conference we truly believe in a few years we're going to look back at this event and say this was a catalyst for change in modern medicine that we're going to look back in 10 years and say this was the Woodstock for modern medicine yes I truly believe that and you were here so Dave said we are the two crazy ketos we absolutely are Joe and Rachel and we should say that we are not doctors nurses or health professionals it's kind of weird that this is what a scientist looks like now right it's a little bit scary little bit scary all right well thank you thank you sir get this this what we are we are citizen scientists and we are actually citizen scientists by accident um we both lost a bunch of weight Rachel's lost over 170 lb on keto I lost over 100 lb we started our YouTube channel kind of is a joke because our children were getting older and we were like what are we going to do so let's start a YouTube channel to kind of tell people what we've done because we got tired of telling people in person this is what we did to L lose weight and then they would say that's to hard yeah that's that doesn't work but it's kind of funny there's a lot in this in this sentence here reporting our findings on YouTube since July of 2018 we've actually been on the interwebs in our underwear like that's that's where it will if you want to report your findings sometimes you almost have to get naked and you just tell your parents please don't watch this particular video while we share our findings so what we want to talk about today is what qualifies you to make a good citizen scientist rather than coming up here and talking about like what we have done to be citizen scientists we want to help you guys all become citizen scientists because the bottom line is like we said earlier this is going to be an event that people are going to look back on and say hey this C this was the spark for changing medicine and the way we do that is by reporting our findings by all of us being citizen scientists we want to talk about what do we need to do to be a good citizen scientist so the first one is is honesty and here's how I looked uh formerly as a mad scientist actually um and honesty is a challenge for somebody who has been a lifelong Dieter when when I was eating Reese's peanut butter cups in the bathroom with the door locked on the floor in my own home because I didn't even want my family to know what I was eating the thought that I need to be honest is challenging but if I truly want to be beneficial to the people watching me I got to be honest I'm going to have to report like this is what I am putting in my mouth and this is the result of it and we not just honest to ourselves or to others but honest to ourselves if you've ever been obese and on a diet the last thing we want to do is honestly look at something and go yeah I have a addiction to whip cream yes asking for a friend right so or cheese or nuts or cheese or nuts or anything we have to be honest with ourselves so our device Our advice is donate your health journey to science I have donated my body to science right now not even dead yet fully alive right um and I'm just decided that like whatever you see and if you see our our YouTube videos you see me like hair Jacked Up No Makeup this is us this is real this is how we live but I am no longer worried about how I look I want everybody to see the authenticity because I wake up and I think this isn't for me anymore this isn't just me battling you know pounds on a scale it's me helping to to be a Channel of information to other people and serve them and that helps me stay in a right mindset so we need to focus on our knowledge gain rather than our pounds loss when I got started on keto I started keto to lose weight six months into it I realized oh my gosh I'm no longer taking arthritis pills and painkillers that I had been taking for 25 straight years no longer needing a wheelchair or Mobility Scooter it happened by accident yeah and we need to focus on that clap I used to have to push him yes so next thing is we have to be objective and this is really challenging we have to let evidence and data Guide our conclusions rather than personal beliefs or preferences and I think back to one of the the things that that we were able to participate in is we were T chatting with Dr Barry once when we were I believe we were in were we in Omaha we were at an at the Omaha conference before it became the heart to kill conference with Dr Seaman here this morning and we were talking about how can we stop maybe demonizing fat we saw that there was like the pendulum was SW was swinging back towards high protein and like no fat Fat's bad and so Dr Barry so graciously reminded us that hey I had put a challenge out about beef butter bacon and eggs but like no one's really taking us up on that and so we decided that we were going to take the challenge and we were going to be the first people to just like video our whole Journey on that and and show the results but for somebody who is afraid like I have lost 170 lbs I am not interested in putting those back on and there's a little bit of fear that I was going to have to let the fat in right right and see what's going to happen but I had to be willing to be wrong may maybe maybe I'm right maybe I'm wrong about fat yeah Dr Barry had this hypothesis is if we ate nothing about beef butter bacon and eggs that we would not gain body fat scary that was a scary thought cuz he said you can eat as much as you want you can eat as many times a day as you want so long as you eat until you're full and we decided we were going to put ourselves out there on video and literally show every single thing we ate but it was a scary thing and we had to really do that and not cherry-pick what was going to happen to us so our advice is you have to be teachable I can I you guys give yourselves a hand because clearly you're here because you're teachable we can change our minds on things so the success of a citizen scientist is not measured by a correct hypothesis but by a willingness to be wrong and if you've been watching us very long on on YouTube uh raise your hand if you're a to crazy keto's family member up in this piece all right awesome thank you for being here so you see we get it wrong we get it wrong spectacularly right just super wrong but you have to be willing to be wrong so would we currently be in this situation if anel Keys would have hello been willing to have been wrong with his original hypothesis hello where would the standard American diet today be if he would have gone I was wrong instead of trying to skew the data to prove what he thought right so next thing is we have to have a commitment to societal impact we put ourselves on YouTube yeah and realizing that like that picture was before we're in the same boat how many people are trying to live longer and be healthier is it just us in the room or you got okay all right so we're in the same boat when it comes to putting ourselves out there so it's worth it for us to put ourselves out there we need to recognize the broader implications of our research on society and public policy again we did this to lose weight then we got Rachel's mother to begin a keto lifestyle we kind of forced it on her but a type 2 diabetic for more than 20 years no longer being classified as a type 2 diabetic yeah now it is our mission and our job to help other people yeah and we're really passionate about that and when you're striving to conduct research that contributes to the advancement of knowledge and the betterment of society your daily stamina can be strengthened if you're somebody that's like man I I I'm going to come home from this Vegas conference and I know that there's going to be wind in my sales and I'm it's you know I'm going yes I have learned all this information and it's easy to follow through with it but when you have to like face an an an obstacle once you get home it's knowing that you're contributing to society that gives you more stamina that's the motivation wake up every morning thinking I get to speak to other people like we're having an our life has a purpose and it means something so our advice is we need to control the variables and we have four minutes left so we talk a lot okay so we need to collect and we need to report on our personal data which again we chose to do that on YouTube all the good and the bad we have problems if we're overeating if we're eating the wrong Foods you're going to see you we put out of llog today we ate six grapes in a video we got so much hate cuz we ate six grapes with our get off that stage okay so and here's the most important thing do not worry what other people are doing you have to focus on what you're focusing on we talk all the time about stay in your lane but we got to stay in our lab can you imagine how Preposterous it would be if somebody was like a scientist was just like I'm coming in here I'm going to mess with your stuff I'm going to test I'm going to touch your all of your stuff in your in your lab you wouldn't do that right we can stay in our own lab which means we have to have the courage yes we have to have courage for people to strongly disagree with us you're going to ruffle a few feathers and you know what I have to say to that this is what I have to say I I'm I'm heavily feathered I'm ready to ruffle some feathers you also have to be prepared that there's going to be people that scrutinize your findings right they're going to scrutinize it maybe you're already sharing in at around the family dinner table or in your workplace and people are asking you this barrage of questions because they're scrutinizing the data that you are collecting and finally we have to be prepared to personally invest in our efforts as um Dave talked about earlier all of your speakers here they are personally investing to be here we flew out here on our own dime you all are personally investing in the future of this conference we have to be willing to personally invest uh now our advice is you need to join a scientific Community you're here right now that is joining the community because Community is going to help Foster an openness to feedback yeah it's more than just encouragement a lot of times we say hey get involved in in a in a group it could be locally it could be something that is virtual because it's important for us not just to join a community for motivation or inspiration but because a a community really can help a community can open the door to Cooperative brainstorming and problem solving just today I was chatting with Mark and I was chatting with Shaban about like specific issues that we've come up across like what do you think it's because we've surrounded ourselves and put ourselves in in the way of friendship in order for us to have somebody to ask questions for cuz maybe everything's going great but you have like one little detail you can address if you don't have anybody that you can personally ask those questions to like how are you going to get those answers yeah as Rachel mentioned earlier we it was being at another Community event at a low carb event where we had the conversation with Dr Barry about hey what else can we do to stop the demonization of fat if it wasn't for attending that Community event we would have never tried beef butter bacon egg we would have never looked at is there another option out there so it's really important to get yourself involved in different communities Community can help improve the quality and the rigor for your research if you are trying to like tighten up your own eating and health Journey getting in community can help make that possible because those people in the community will challenge you as Dave will say like we literally cornered him at the keto Orlando Summit and we're like Vegas needs a conference would you agree I agree so yeah absolutely absolutely and then finally Community can provide a safe place that we can begin sharing our findings because we do need to share it with somebody and sometimes when you share it with a loved one a friend a doctor they're not always receptive they don't always celebrate and cheer you and what you're discovering but when you are within a keto Community you have people to share it with and they will cheer you on and so that is the end of our presentation with 20 seconds to go we actually did it oh my gosh and the cool thing is is we actually get to stay up here right now and tell you it's time for a potty break oh I love that great news everybody

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: p1OibCBt6Zk (https://youtu.be/p1OibCBt6Zk) ===

hi guys it looks as if I'm doing another reaction video and in this case uh I just I have to express my appreciation Dr Rhonda Patrick got back to my response with a very lengthy one of her own it also was very thoughtful and I very much appreciate it and just to get meta with you all I hope you'll uh follow my spirit and try to keep this as kind and as respectful as I appreciate so here we go thanks for the high level and thought comments real day Feldman I also appreciate you sharing your recently published paper it's encouraging to see this important research being pursued thank you well I agree with you that leanness and metabolic Health likely play a crucial role in long-term outcomes I believe it's important to consider that even metabolically healthy individuals could benefit from lower LDL cholesterol levels though I'm inclined to focus on apob the data I'm citing here is specific to LDL cholesterol this aligns with Lane's point that lean mass hypos moders might be healthier in terms of reduced heart disease risk if their LDL particles if their ldo particles were lower by healthier I'm specifically referring to a lower risk for heart disease would you disagree with that is there any data that suggests otherwise well firstly I think it's absolutely fair to consider lean mass hyperresponders May reduce their risk of heart disease by taking steps to lower their LDL cholesterol I certainly would want everything to be considered and kept on the table but in answer to your question is there any data to suggest otherwise RS is the most specific two lean mass hyperresponders that I'm aware of to the best of our knowledge there has never been a prospective study on a population with extremely high LDL cholesterol that doesn't include or exclusively focus on a population with some form of dysfunctional lipid metabolism either one that they're born with like monogenetic FH or required such as insulin resistance syndrome so it's worth emphasizing this because these dysfunctions are independent risk factors for cardiov for cardiovascular disease in and of themselves which by definition makes them confounders I'll Again State this study is just one of many more steps to come but it's the giant First Step we've been waiting for nothing like this has been attempted before now which is why our data set is in a class of its own melan randomization studies are compelling because they examine L cholesterol effects across a diverse population including both metabolically healthy and unhealthy individuals these studies consistently show that even metabolically healthy individuals with higher genetically determined LDL cholesterol levels have shorter lifespans while those with lower LDL cholesterol live longer first of all higher LDL cholesterol associating with greater mortality isn't surprising but this is because it wraps in various forms of dysfunctional lipid metabolism that I just mentioned from above and you can often see this when you're wrapping in things like the triglycerides and HDL in the context of the genetic components but a more interesting and compelling question is one of lifelong low LDL cholesterol or apob and Longevity this is the latter part of your assertion and I'd agree it would be extremely compelling if a sizable population born with genetically lower LDL cholesterol like pcsk9 loss of function had a clear signal of longevity when compared to the general population but while I hear this repeated over and over I've yet to see this in the data some of my colleagues are looking into a large data set to confirm or disconfirm this themselves to answer the question would those with lifelong low LDL cholesterol in fact show a longer life span so I can better comment on this when their analysis comes back for example a 2021 study found that a one standard deviation increase in genetically proxied LDL cholesterol reduced slight this is the the catch with the proxies the scoring and so forth this is kind of where I start all concede this is where I get my strongest pushback with Mr but I'll pause and continue I'll just read on uh and decrease the odds of reaching the 90th percentile by uh 90th percentile age by 28% another study linked genetically lowered LDL cholesterol with reduced Frailty in older adults especially those over 60 additionally higher apob and alal cholesterol levels have been associated with shorter Health span and an increased risk of Alzheimer's disease while I have some strong opinions on Mr studies I deferred instead to my colleague Adrian sodam Moda as this should be unpacked in its own context and it can take a while to do so but your version for me I think Mr studies are very interesting definitely but I also just don't share the same level of confidence many have to make a conclusive case of independent causality I found the recent lean mass hypers SM study very interesting but I'm still left wondering if the study's 5-year time frame is sufficient to override the apparent risks of lifelong High elal exposure noted in the Mr studies as bio mentioned heart disease develops over a long period it's worth clearing the air on this as it's a common misconception yes it can take very long time to develop symptomatic aosc orotic cardiovascular disease the kind of advanced disease that doesn't require a scan but which you can feel not just worse but you might actually die of our study is using Ultra resolution CT and geography so it can detect plaque at less than a cubic millimeter or even less in many cases we're using Advanced AI guided reading for Quantified analysis many longitudinal CTA studies are typically one year because they detect changes in plaque that quickly the absence of coronary artery calcification in lean mass Hypes individuals on a ketogenic diet for under 5 years and presumably exposed to higher LDL for just as long is in my opinion not strong enough evidence to dismiss the link between high LDL and heart disease over a lifetime additionally CAC has its limitations and doesn't capture the full pictures you're undoubtedly aware yes our study isn't using CAC alone it's we're using CT geography we're capturing both calcified and non-calcified plaque a short-term study like this doesn't provide a definitive answer though it certainly contributes valuable data assessing apob and particle numbers factors also associated with reduced Health span remain crucial I agree it doesn't provide a definitive answer almost no study does that said it's already providing data I had long been speculating on for some time the following scatter plot is from a presentation on a preliminary on preliminary data from this same study it's not yet published so take that in consideration but within our cohort there is no correlation between between ldo particle count this isn't just ldo cholesterol LDL p in corresponding plaque volume and this brings me back to time span with respect I genuinely think many amazing smart people are unknowingly holding us to a different standard think about this most Interventional studies of LDL cholesterol change in corresponding outcomes of cardiovascular disease are shorter than 4.7 years and in fact the Jupiter triout was just 1.9 and it was one of the most influential studies ever so unless you believe these changes to LDL cholesterol for those trials could alter events without changing plaque in any way then to be consistent you'd have to agree that 4.7 years at these magnitudes of increased LDL cholesterol for our cohort for our study there there are more than sufficient to expect changes in plaque I'm not being defensive here I genuinely appreciate our constructive discussion on this topic as there's much to learn from both perspectives can I make a a polite Challenge on this note would you consider having myself and Nick norwitz on your podcast to discuss this research directly the low carbon carnivore Community are often spoken of in a in a not so favorable light and I think it's fair to call out the extremes but that said I've been spearheading this study for a long long time and if you believe as I do that we should encourage good science why not have us on to discuss this directly she goes on to say for reference here the Mr study here's the Mr study that lane and I discussed in the clip it shows the prolonged exposure to lower LDL cholesterol was associated with greater and again this is where there's kind of I think there's there's a lot of um impressions as Lane was showing that I think lot of people take that you can draw this straight line from exposure to what it is but sort of in the way that you're describing it here a lot of these studies are on exposure to lowering which is technically an important Nuance uh to pick up and why it is that it's important to wrap this into the larger picture of how it is that we're looking at these data and their outcomes I'll just I'll finish with one last thought which is that I appreciate that a mutual friend of ours Dr Peter AA challenged me six years ago to try to raise funds from the low carp Community to literally get this studied and that's literally where we're at right now like as of this moment as of this week these are the First Data that's published from a study that I was able to crowd source and have completed and I think now's the time to talk about it it's either the time to talk about it or it's the time to not talk about it um but obviously I would encourage that we actually take a a serious look at these data and what they can mean to us all thank you so much for taking the time to respond and um I appreciate hearing your thoughts

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: SOoo22nQ6nc (https://youtu.be/SOoo22nQ6nc) ===

I everyone I'm coming to you from Chicago I'm actually on a trip but my phone keeps blowing up with a clip that I guess is of Lane Norton on found my fitness and for what it's worth just full disclosure I have already texted found my Fitness on our recently released paper so this clip may involve that I kind of saw a little bit of the text of the clip and this is of Lane Norton as a guest uh Lane and I I to think are on fairly good conversational terms and uh we've actually debated in the past and it was an interesting debate especially to look at in context of the current study that we're in the process of completing its original scope for anyway let's go and get to the clip and so these mandelian randomization studies I mean when they came out you look at the lifetime exposure to you can draw a straight line through it I mean you can literally draw a straight line through amount of LDL exposure throughout the course of someone's life and the risk for heart disease so to me I had to change my opinion on that for what it's worth melan randomization studies usually aren't situated quite like that where it's looking at those people at the lowest levels of LDL all the way up to the people at the highest levels of LDL lifetime but even so they do rely on the number of underlying assumptions my colleague Adrian soda could speak to this a bit more and this isn't me trying to disregard Med and randomization studies altoe just that the way that lane is describing it here I can't say that I've seen that particular study again going from lowest to highest I think it would be very interesting I'd be very interested in what the methodology was as to how they could reach that conclusion that said like I said I highly working in adid sort of he's got lots of very interesting thoughts on this now I think I'm making a little bit of a leap from saturated fat to LDL because there are some forms of saturated fat that don't raise LDL like steric a doesn't appear to raise LDL but overall if you eat more saturated fat you raise your LDL we see this in the carnivore Community there's people like bragging about having LDL levels of three four 500 milligrams per deciliter and it's like this is going to get people killed so a couple things there one with regard to saturated fat increasing LDL I would again want to I I really would love if laye Norton and I could revisit the conversation that we started when we reached our meta when we published our meta analysis back in February I know he did a video at that time I wanted to call to his attention that the meta analysis does show that actually leanness and metabolic Health are at a minimum strongly more influential than saturated fact there are plenty of people who are very overweight for example and using the ketogenic diet to lose weight who do not see their LDL go up like many people in the carnivore Community who are those people he's describing that see their LDL go to 300 400 500 Etc so if it was just saturated fat then it'd be across the board that's not what we see we see that the amount of leanness tends to be more influential as to why their LDL would be higher which is connected with the lipid energy model but I won't go into all of that here the second thing I want to address is the the bragging part honestly I work with I we literally have a group thean Mass Hypes Facebook group that I believe we have 12,000 members in right now and make mistake there are some people who feel some heightened exuberance at their high LDL they are actually very rare most people I know who have an LDL of 300 400 500 they are either uh cautious but hopeful or they're just genuinely concerned and it's why it is that they're waiting on our research they're very interested in seeing how much when looked at perspectively these high levels of LDL even in the context to metabolic Health as you mentioned in the beginning are going to show this straight line towards cor corresponding cardiovascular disease so I really do want to level set that a little bit because I think some of the worst examples as happens all the time with social media some of the worst examples get overly highlighted and then people think that that's just the community perspective overall and I'm I'm telling you I can run a poll and lean mass a Facebook group right now as to who is bragging about their LDL in the you know 300 400 500 and like I said I'm not saying there's no one I'm just saying it's it's definitely a small fraction of the total community and the I think where there gets to be a conflict here I'll come back to CED sorry I know I'm kind of going down the rabbit hole is people might do a carnivore diet lose 30 40 pounds their blood glucose regulation gets better their HDL gets better but their their LDL goes through the roof and they go number yeah and and they go but I'm so much healthier now one you don't feel heart disease until it's knocking on your door and two you may on balance overall yes be healthier than you were before but you are not as healthy as if you'd gotten all those benefits and also not raise your LDL you would be healthier having all those things and also your LDL lower and okay so a few things one this is exactly why we're studying this prospectively BL Norton's right in that if you're not getting Imaging you may not know that you've got Advanced heart disease until as he puts it it's knocking on your door you develop angina or worse you die you actually have severe cardiovascular disease and it kills you this is why I'm I'm such a fan of at least getting a CAC a coronary artery calcification uh test that said all of that said that's why we're doing CT and geography with our uh study and for what it's worth this is good timing because it this is here let me we're now published like we actually just now completed the original scope of our study and the very first published data that we have out of the study is the match analysis it's between our cohort of the lass Hypes study and in Miami Hart uh the Miami Hart group has fairly average LDL at around 123 ours is extremely high at 272 milligrams per Des that's the mean average for our group the keto group and again I'm not going to go through all the details of the study but I I will say that they were matched it was matched control and you can actually see for example with figure one the uh in these box plots you can see how actually the Miami Heart Group has much lower LDL cholesterol than the keto group yet there's no statistically significant difference in their total plaque scores and the total stenosis scores and so forth um this is this is data that we put a lot of time and effort to acquire and I'm excited that that we're finally able to start publishing these data as they're coming out because it's been it's been a very important Endeavor and I'm so thankful for everybody who's been able to put this together so once again I would urge Dr uh Patrick Dr Norton to consider the now newly published data that's quite specific to this cohort specific to those folks who are seeing their LDL go quite high but who are metabolically healthy I'll reate what should be stated which is that this is specific to this group so those folks who see their LDL cholesterol go high but are not metabolically healthy who have for example genetic FH molecular FH like monogen Etc that's a different context it's something that we intentionally ruled out with our study and so as always I'll say please work with your doctor for your individual considerations but all that said this is the first prospective study that my awareness has ever been done on a population with extremely high LDL cholesterol but that did not have some form of dysfunction in their lipid metabolism either be it FH or be be it acquired disease and that's why I think we've need to do this because up until this point all of the data that makes that Association that lane was discussing as far as there being you know a line between the total LDL exposure and the corresponding outcome has been extrapolated from populations that partially or exclusively focus on folks who have some form of dysfunction in their lipid metabolism so that's that's why I'm excited that we finally had these data in front of us so anyway once again as always I hope everyone continues to work with your doctor and continue to take this in its full context more my push back is on the context independent ass Assumption of LDL cholesterol and corresponding risk of cardiovascular disease that's why we've taken all this time to put together this study so if you guys have any questions especially you two laye and Rhonda uh feel free to reach out I'd love to be able to answer them until then everyone have a great weekend

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: IglzzKl09vQ (https://youtu.be/IglzzKl09vQ) ===

hi everyone so I'm going to do a respectful reaction video I was excited to see that Tom RI I I hope I'm saying your name correctly had a a video which he tagged me in for he's shown an interest in lean mass hypers sponds and our research so I thought I'd just actually do a live reaction and record it and if it's a decent video then I guess I'll post it so we'll see in a moment Tom Rafi here and shout out to Dave Feldman thank you for the time man just that we are here as you know out at the uh conference for age research drug development and the first of the xprize health span Summit meetings in Copenhagen so I'm not ignoring it all I'm trying to fit in wherever I can information on lean mass hyperresponders uh scary levels to many of us of apob in the context of those lean on frankly very high levels of saturated fat and cholesterol and sky high levels of apob but so let me actually um jump in real quick on this part for those of you who don't know he had kindly left a uh fairly exhaustive comment on the prior data reveal that I did with doctors Adrien soda and Nick norwitz which you can check out and you can see his comment that's in the YouTube down below I for what it's worth Tom I was not uh suggesting that you ignoring in fact I I'm literally doing this reaction video to further Foster The Curiosity and interest in this research the other component though that I wanted to mention and part of the reason I I paused is I realized that the present expectation is that the reason you're seeing this phenomenon with many people like myself Nick and Adrien is that it is the consumption of dietary cholesterol and saturated fat that's driving the higher levels of LDL I'm fairly confident that we if you just do a little bit of a dive especially in our meta analysis things predicted by the lipid energy model you'll be convinced that this that the primary influence to the levels of high LDL and in particular apob like you discussed are not that strongly influenced by saturated fat and dietary cholesterol compared to the level of leanness as would be predicted by the lip energy model stated plainly leanness and metab health will have a much much stronger influence on what your resulting high levels of LDL cholesterol are when going keto think about it from this perspective if you're working with a lot of patients who themselves are more overweight more metabolically challenged and they are not over consuming but just consuming a moderate amount of a ketogenic diet we already have the data we've already published on it that it's more likely that they will not see much of a change in their real and and ironically but not so ironically because it's predicted by the model the more obese you know say above 35 the more likely their LDL cholesterol and their apob will likely go down because they're moving from a state of metabolic challenge to one of metabolic Health it's only when you get to like a BMI of 25 or less that you're actually going to see the higher and higher levels to the degrees that we see with those folks who are especially lean okay now back to the video potentially potentially some phenomena of resistance to a plaque deposition so that being said I'm interested I'm listening I'm happy to discuss and uh of course I'm discussing with all my good colleagues uh Bill Cromwell Tom dpring I think these people are going to have to stay and maybe in the sense of Dayspring I'm not sure if Tom has chimed in on this get involved in the discussion I absolutely I could not encourage more this discussion it's literally why I'm making this video right now is anytime I have the opportunity to draw more attention especially to literally the scientists inside of the field of lipidology I mean lipidology is the study of lipids but this also is something I want to draw to your attention the lack of conversation becomes more and more apparent the further we get into this research I wasn't taken it seriously early on and I think for Fairly understandable reasons because I am not a I'm I'm not a formally trained researcher I'm an engineer and as such when this was all just on a Blog clustal code.com many gave me the advice that I think was good advice to say listen you need to move this into the real research where things are going to get published where these ideas are more codified and peer-reviewed and that's what has since happened as well as the more audacious feat of actually getting these data collected in terms of lean mass hyperresponders in CT and geography and I'm so thankful we're there and granted while at this particular moment in time we're waiting on a final publication of the match analysis you've seen Dr buddah's presentation hopefully by this point on the data that will be published I can tell you the paper itself will basically coales with that you likely seen the data that we just talked about the one that you commented on that was the reveal with Dr norwitz and soda and the corresponding lack of Association for example of ldlp and uh plaque formation but I Echo your sentiment as I did in that video as I would do here that we're looking at particular population the thing is I absolutely do contend that what we're looking at in the the case of a lipid energy model is a greater and larger umbrella of lipid physiology overall and that without having that conversation by constantly keeping this in some um almost like false choice between either the lipid hypothesis should inform us or not such that we're not having these discussions on not just mechanism but in particular on how it is that we can understand it in this context I think is unfortunately a very large missed opportunity and it's something that everyone's watching at this point in time and understandably so I'll just I'll fit in one more time if you haven't seen this already and I think I may have mentioned it in the prior video but if not I I'll emphasize it here we're filming a documentary around not just my story but also this study and we're not interviewing folks who are walking around with sky high LDL who are metabolically healthy and who do not turn out to have plaque rather our personal stories that we're focusing on are people who find special efficacy to treat their medical condition Nick norwitz for example has severe aler of colitis and he uses the ketogenic diet in order to mitigate that uh folks with type 1 diabetes should be strongly interested in carbohydrate restriction as a way to manage their insulin levels a um bipolar disorder is another one that we're checking that that we had a great story on in this documentary that I think is really fantastic there's a there's a YouTuber Lauren Kennedy who got really massive in her discussing openly with YouTube how she's living with schizophrenia she's titrating off all of her medications after being able to adopt with the care of her Physicians a therapeutic ketogenic diet and it's quite astonishing her story is a anyway the reason I'm bringing all this up is because there are a number of people who are metabolically healthy who go on a ketogenic diet who see their LDL levels climb to substantial levels and I think that there are a lot of doctors who are understandably like yourself very concerned about not just the high LDL but of course if you have high LDL cholesterol you all but certainly have high levels of apob and need these data to better inform their decision like our principal investigator Dr Matt budoff like Dr Karam nir who's the pi of Miami heartt like Brett Sher who's a low carb cardiologist and of course my colleagues many are taking what I would say is a sensible and evidence-based position that if the patient still would prefer not to take cholesterol loing medication and follow-up scanning suggests that they are low to no risk for cardiovascular disease or like low to no plaque levels for example uh particularly for their age group they're more comfortable with not taking steps to lower their LDL again if it's the patient wish and if they have no other cardiovascular disease risk factors that's an evidence-based position and let me reemphasize if any of those conditions are not met they would recommend lowering LDL now this isn't me giving medical advice and it's not my place to do so but I do think that that is a change worth noting and putting it in contrast with what you're concerned about people who do have other cardiovascular disease risks were not making any claims in that regard or or for that matter any of the doctors who are themselves care providers are not leveraging this research specifically for that group that we're not studying so hopefully that gives you some conf um comfort and also some better understanding of this context and why it matters anyway I should continue on with the video sorry because we want to figure this out too all right so you keep up the great work my only ask is that we make clear that the lean mass hyperr phenomena is yet to be fully elucidated and as we know great claims require great evidence and we're not there yet uh on this it is definitely to be sure it's not like a single line that gets crossed this isn't the you know data come in a spectrum it's not as if we're claiming the study is definitive but by the same token the study is by no means uh meaningless it's an extremely strong step forward of many more steps to come attention grabbing it is worthy of attention but my real concern if you want the bottom line is that we're talking to a population that are not lean mass and there are many that will take information like this and rationalize it as to the Benin if you will in general of high saturated fat high cholesterol intake okay so that I I really do think we need to separate these two topics I know people who are who were severely diabetic who've gone on a diet that has very high consumption of saturated fat and dietary cholesterol and they are no longer diabetic they're they're a C is down you can we can argue back and forth as to whether or not it's actually cured or truly reversed per se um I have my own opinion on that some members of my family I would say are are effectively not diabetic but are still very insulin resistant and therefore need to remain on a very low carbohydrate diet but their low carbohydrate diet has a high intake of saturated fat and dietary cholesterol but they do not have high level of LDL frankly because they are not as metabolically healthy so I do want to stress the importance of separating those two because I think that there are a number of people who found enormous success with a qen diet who would not concern yourself and your colleagues as much because their LDL would not be at the levels of a lean mass great amount of uh reason to be concerned that we are in a wave of cardiometabolic disease driven by not lean but actually relatively high body fat to lean mass muscle mass ratio could more that's all and I I appreciate the caveats I've heard them please keep them up you know always discuss with your doctor I hear those I I do I do I think they could be a little bit more emphatic to be honest but uh I appreciate that very much I I do want to fit in this one thing which is if you if you followed me through my whole journey in the very beginning I would get excited about this research I would say I'm optimistic I'm optimistic about people who have high LDL in the context of fat adaptation but just in that context bear that in mind but it's true a number of people would run with oh Dave's optimistic as though Dave says this is fine full stop and he's made that conclusion I would then change that to cautiously optimistic I was cautiously to really emphasize the cautious part even so people still turned it into a false Choice which I don't love and now I just don't don't even say cautiously optimistic and I try to just emphasize look I'm my job is to get this research and move it forward but then on top of that I further try in every appearance I'm in every time I'm chatting about it to say please work with your doctor I I'm going to go on a limb and say that compared to any non-med professional on the internet I probably say I'm not a medical doctor and work with your doctor for your individual care I would I would put me up against everybody on the internet so with respect I am quite emphatic and uh I do think I I regard myself well on where my qualifications start and where they end with regard to this whole journey so um I will continue to try to reemphasize it but it is funny because I do sort of feel like that gold post is just always moving again I understand you're coming from a place of a doctor uh you you know you always feel like there can't be enough emphasis placed and to that extent I do my best that's that's all I can say about that many other out there do not even do that at all so that's highly appreciated true uh but keep in mind that this is a at this point a I don't want to say esoteric population uh but it is one in which uh that is minor definitely but that being said we can learn from that I remember the Gila monster discussion and that was very true certainly wasn't the purpose of studying The Gila monster uh and then getting gp1 drugs so these discussions are appreciated because there may be doors that open that are well beyond well beyond the original point I I want you to remember this because I realized I'm not going to be able to this is less esoteric than is thought I realized this is sort of the new I guess you could say push back that lean mass hypers responders are a tiny group of people or something along those lines if my original hypothesis is right then this applies to the larger physiology and the reason for the high LDL and the high apob is going to prove to be extremely relevant which gets to the heart of causality itself if we take if we take something like smoking the reason why your lungs are exposed to the high amounts of smoke have less to do with the causality of say something like lung cancer now while we've never had an RCT to elucidate truly a threshold level that would come with an RCT of confidence towards causality it hits such a high Bradford Hill criteria that we that many people would say yeah I I feel as though we may out worked out all the intermediaries between the exposure and the lung cancer itself fully and we haven't done RCT to know that it's happened in a blinded fashion but we do know that there's enough of a threshold of Bradford Hill for the strength involved that indeed there is lung cancer such that we would say there's no point in doing so and in the case of where people have it secondary where they say are working in a bar or something where it's the equivalent of if they were smoking you know two packs a day or three packs a day or what have you sure enough we still see those outcomes bottom line is this no matter how healthy you are if you are smoking three packs a day your odds have getting lung cancer increase or at least that is what we currently believe right by the same token virtually all of our data that we've collected and I make this point often and frequently uh virtually all of our data for the association of LDL and corresponding cardiovascular disease are on populations for which there's some form of dysfunction in lipid metabolism either through a disease you're born with such as monogenetic FH or something that's acquired such as insulin resistance syndrome but we have yet until now we have yet to prospectively follow a population with extremely high LDL but who have no known version of dysfunction in lipid metabolism alongside low cardiovascular risk factors this as far as I know ours is the first and therefore it provides a special benefit for being able to examine the independent causality of apob lipoproteins themselves in this context why that's important is there may be a number of people who are interested and motivated in achieving both good metabolic Health while also being on a ketogenic diet such that they remove all of these other cardiovascular risk factors you and I both know as you were just kind of alluding to here that metabolic syndrome insulin resistance it is extremely highly Associated not just with all cause mortality but with cardiovascular disease in particular so everybody in the VIN diagram is mostly overlapping the area of interest is of the thing things that you can do as a doctor to mitigate the risk for patients so it's understandable why there's still such a focus on LDL and aob and I don't want to remove it as being a risk factor uh for populations outside of those that we're studying but what I will push back on is whether or not our data can be easily ignored because it's presumed to only apply to this small group of people again I may have to plant the flag now for a larger conversation later but I'm firmly planning it that I believe this applies to lipid physiology overall and this is where I believe lean mass hypers spots will provide us way more information on this physiology well beyond the exact studies we're doing on them in particular I I don't think they're as distinct as is being assumed uh by your colleagues so and I think in this case very very important point so there you go man all right I'm about to walk into the general assembly for the healthy longevity medicine society which is another aspect and group that deserves a shout out while here xprize fantastic uh ardd fantastic and I'm going to give a shout out too to my brothers and sisters in the American College of Lifestyle medicine you may not be here officially but you are here in spirit as well take care love you all all right as a great video uh I I always like an opportunity to sort of chat and expand a little bit more especially for people who are just tuning in there are certainly since these data were just released the prelim data that I did before there's a lot more interest I saw that there were some other cardiologists who reached out and so to the extent to where this conversation can keep going we can keep expanding on it I want to Foster that like I said I'm I'm going to stop and take more time where possible where I feel there are new voices in new minds that are interested Tom for what it's worth I would absolutely be interested as you mentioned another comment in another video If there can be a conversation had with Dr dpring uh but that said I'll concede as far as I know he's not as interested in engaging in these data quite distinctively or at least this like broader conversation but for everybody who is please have them Reach Out we're interested in working with them I think it's it's crucial that we really understand this precipice because I think this research possibly don't know for sure but possibly May really provide some groundbreaking possibilities on What's oh there's my alarm you know what I have to run myself anyway uh let me know in the comments if you guys like this kind of ad hoc video I can make these a lot easier than I can like a planned and scripted video and so forth but um I'm always looking for the opportunity to do more respect respectful responses to those who are interested in this research especially if they themselves are in the field so shout out to you all and uh we'll catch you again next time

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: BWxMKiI0ZWc (https://youtu.be/BWxMKiI0ZWc) ===

Dr David Diamond is a neuroscience Professor challenging conventional views on cholesterol and cardiovascular health through his research and lectures please welcome Dr David [Applause] Diamond thank you Dave not only for inviting me to speak but for the outstanding work that you've done so today my goal is to address that LDL elephant in the room that's been haunting this meeting and a secondary goal is to alleviate your concerns over high LDL when you're on a low carb diet or for the L mhrs so I'll share my story it's also my disclosure seems like everyone has a story to share uh here I was 46 years ago when I began my Neuroscience career recording brain activity in rats and in the past four decad ades I've studied PTSD and Alzheimer's disease I've been a VA career scientist and I've received funding from all these uh Federal organizations but I'm not going to talk about my Neuroscience research today what I'm going to talk about is more personal and entirely unfunded so this is one of my blood tests uh 25 years ago I was diagnosed as being extremely high risk for developing heart disease here you could see see my triglycerides at 771 and my HDL down in the low3s my ratio was more than 10 times what is considered healthy and there were blood tests in which my triglycerides were as high as thousand so wow that's what my doctor said uh and you could see some of the notes that were on my charts um about how concerned my doctor was he urged me to go on a variety of medication you have recommended meds to Patient uh is he amenable and I was not um I decided to learn about the biochemistry of triglycerides and HDL and realized that the reason why I had such high triglycerides was because of my high carb diet so I cut back on the carbs which uh helped me to not only uh lose weight but I also reduced my triglycerides by about 75% or more and raised my or rais my HDL by about 25% so once my triglycerides got into a range in which I could then measure my LDL uh it turned out to be Skyhigh so now I had a second problem uh which is in common with the lmrs in which I felt really healthy but my doctor again is urging me to go on medication including statins so this is the problem and this is the challenge in which we're faced with which is high LDL appears to dramatically increase your risk of developing heart disease even if you're an lmhr or you're overall healthy so Dr bof compared the L mhrs to the FH people so it's in a sense it's a comparator group and what you have are he compared it to people with FH and these are people who have abnormality in their lipid processing their LDL receptor and so from birth they have extremely high LDL and as it says right there there's a known risk for cardiovascular disease so if you look then at the literature you find a consensus which is that for people who have FH you see that if that LDL is not reduced they're at very high risk of developing cardiovascular disease and die prematurely so you can expect them to be dying of cardiovascular disease and overall all cause mortality in their 30s 40s and 50s so as a scientist I just looked into the literature and asked the question so based on their high LDL these people should have premature cardiovascular disease all cause mortality not only in people with FH but in nonfh people who have extremely high LDL so this study is representative of numerous studies on people with FH and so this is a beautiful study in which you're looking at the rate of death for people at different ages ages relative to the general population so 1.0 is rate of death in the general population so in the first few Decades of life people with FH do show all cause mortality do have a higher rate of death but it's only a small percentage of the FH people and that is why even though it's somewhat above 1.0 it's not statistically significant which means that most FH people are not dying in the first four Decades of life curious thing happens after the age of 40 the rate of death of people with FH is actually declining so you see how it's going lower again this is the age specific mortality for the general population and in fact it's statistically significant for the people in their 70s who are dying at about a 40% lower rate than the general population and this is actually consistent with the literature so let's look at what's actually causing these people to die and so we look specifically at the 70y olds why is it they have a lower rate of death compared to the general population if we look at cause specific mortality what we find is that they have a normal rate this is not different from 1.0 so they have a normal rate of cardiovascular death they have a significantly lower 50% lower rate of death from cancer and about a 70% low rate of death from other diseases so it's important to realize you may not have heard this ever anywhere before but people with FH are healthier than the general population this really would surprise anyone in a medical school or a cardiologist would be very surprising but this has been consistently found that people with extremely high cholesterol actually have great longevity now it's not just the FH population so I've worked with some outstanding clinician scientists and we reviewed the literature on people with very high LDL looking at mortality and there was not a single study that showed a higher rate of mortality in people with high LDL compared to people with low LDL which is why we concluded this should certainly ask should address the cholesterol hypothesis that the LDL is seeping into Our arteries and therefore choking off the arteries and causing premature death so why is it that elderly people with high LDL are so healthy and this has been raised in a discussion already at the meeting that LDL is a part of our immune system and so you have up here you have these damn buttons um you have up here LDL is a part of immune system and this is the study that Dave was referring to earlier that animals that have extremely high LDL Will Survive a bacterial attack far better than animals with very low LDL and specifically it's the endogenous LDL that protects against the lethal effects of infection and that is what makes people with high LDL so healthy and one way to see how healthy people are with the high LDL and this is of all ages is in this study so you have 30,000 people follow for 10 years and a subset of those people develop sepsis and this is an extreme immune reaction to an infection in which the immune system targets the orgs and can cause severe organ damage and cause mortality and what you have is the people with the lowest LDL were much more likely not only to develop sepsis but also more extreme organ damage and this effect occurs in people of naturally low LDL as as well as the people who are taking statins to lower their LDL so it's independently associated with people taking statins as well as people with naturally low LDL and the authors interpreted this based on the literature that says how important LDL is to clear bacterial toxins so people with very low LDL have a less efficient immune system for targeting infection as well as cancer so while your immunologist would be very happy to hear that you have high LDL your cardiologist is still going to be very concerned so let's talk about high LDL especially with people with FH and heart disease so here you have a study in which you have people with FH and they're pretty much they're all on Statin and after years after 10 years a subset of those people have developed heart disease and a subset are free of heart disease so what you see here at the top in red they have no heart disease and in blue these a subset of them have heart disease and you look at their LDL levels and there's no difference between those with heart disease and those without heart disease what was different between the two which has been talked about is the best indicator of whether or not someone will develop a coronary vent and that's coronary artery calcium so the people that developed the heart disease had extremely high coronary calcium and those without had zero calcium what is also relevant is their blood sugar so those with heart disease had significantly higher fasting blood sugar in the pre-diabetes level and those that didn't have heart disease had nice low blood sugar so these are two incredibly important measures that just blow away LDL so it's not the LDL there there are metabolic factors that are far more important than the LDL a few years ago we reviewed the FH literature and we could relate then the subset of people that develop heart disease with FH had insulin resistance so here is a really nice paper looking at coronary artery disease in people with FH compared to the general population right here which will be 1.0 those with FH that had low fasting insulin and were not over weight right here and you see no significant difference in their rate of coronary artery disease it's not until you get to people that have high fasting insulin and a combination High fasting insulin and they were obese that you see a dramatic increase in coronary artery disease so these two factors are far more important because this takes into account that LDL was irrelevant LDL did not predict coronary artery disease in these people so let's look at another study on FH here you have people not on statins in which you're looking at the level of LDL that they would have had for their entire life and so it's quite similar to the lmhr their total cholesterol is over 350 their LDL is about 275 and you've got one group with coronary heart disease and one group without coronary heart disease and you you see that these levels are equivalent the ones with dis heart disease have slightly lower HDL and higher triglycerides but what really matters is there's an additional genetic anomaly that can occur in people with FH and so these people have what's called a polymorphism in a gene that produces prothrombin this is a clotting factor and this is not only in people with FH this is universal across the population people who have this particular particular polymorphism for this uh protein the prothombin they have a higher rate of heart disease because it triggers more clotting but the most important component of this is it's all independent of the LDL this is an independent factor that increases risk of heart disease in the people with FH so there's a vast literature looking at excess clotting as well as reduced ability to to break up clotting or fibrinolysis and I've been able to work with an outstanding group of individuals and we review the FH literature and what we found is that when clotting factors are measured you see that they're far superior to LTL in being able to be Associated to heart disease and so here's our conclusion in which in those individuals with FH who suffered from premature cardiovascular disease the clear factor which is far superior to LDL was coagulopathy that is they had increased clotting factors such as fibrinogen and reduce the ability to block clotting such as fibrinolysis so these are factors that are typically ignored and people focus on the high LDL in familial hyperemia but there are these other factors that are far more important in indicating who is it that develops cardiovascular disease now is LDL completely innocent of causing heart disease well it gets complicated so what we need to do then is look at the LDL particles which are sensitive to our metabolism so when we are healthy with low triglycerides high htl low blood sugar what we produce is called this large buoyant LDL particle for a person that has high triglycerides high blood sugar low HDL then you produce what's called small dense LDL I call it all small uh small damaged LDL and that's down here at the end and that's really important because the small dense LDL is found in people who are metabolically unhealthy so let's look at a study that addressed this so you look at the people that have very high small small dense LDL and that's in red and you look at their um events as well as their metabolism so the people that have high small dense LDL have very high triglycerides those who very low small dense LDL have low triglycerides and the people who are diagnosed with metabolic syndrome they have you have about 75% of them have very high small dense LDL and those with low small dense are very unlikely then to be diagnosed with metabolic syndrome so small dense lbl is a component of a damaged metabolism so in these people now let's look at events so the people that developed heart disease this is a followup over a decade the people that have the highest small dense LDL also have the most coronary events the people that had very low small dense LDL had a much lower coronary events when we look at the large buoyant LDL which you again is found in people with low triglycerides High HDL you see no association of this form of LDL with coronary events so it's really important to understand LDL exists in the combination all the factors of the metabolism and it is affected therefore by the metabolism but in the healthy person with ideal metabolism you see dominance of large buoyant LDL also it's important to see that ldlc is just a hybrid measure ldlc is a combination of the small dense and the large buoyant LDL so when we go on a low carb diet what happens is that small dense LDL shrinks there is less of it and you have an increase in large buoyant LDL which may increase overall ldlc so you see how poor the ldlc measures is because it's taking into account both the small dense and the large LDL and that large LDL can get really high when someone goes low carb which increases inflates the ldlc let's look even further what also contaminates ldlc is a structure that's very similar to LDL but functionally is quite different called LP little a which is involved in the breakdown of clots High l l LP little a can reduce the ability to be able to break down clots so LP little a is included in that standard lab ldlc measure so what's important about this study is that these investigators were able to separate the lp little a component from the total ldlc and what they concluded was when you separate the lp little a which is associated with heart disease ldlc is no longer associated with heart disease so you see how contaminated the ldlc measure can be so are there observational studies can we actually say something about the lean mass hyperresponders from observational studies so here is a study in which you're looking at es schic heart disease and people this is not in FH this is a general population and you look at people that have an ideal kind of ratio triglycerides htl and that's in blue so that ratio is less than 1.7 or you have people that have a poor ratio in which the triglyceride to HDL ratio is over 3.1 and now you're actually looking at the incidence of heart disease and you find it's extremely rare for those people with a very good ratio and much higher incidence of heart disease in people with this poor ratio triglycerides to HDL and this is for people who have an LDL that is less than 170 now let's look at the people who have higher ldlc and it's exactly the same the people with the ideal ratio have a low incidence of heart disease the people with a poor ratio of a high incidence of heart disease and it's completely independent of their LDL levels the authors then concluded that people that that have hypercholesterolemia with low triglycerides and high HDL that there really isn't a reason for these people to be medicated now this paper is from 2001 but it really kind of precedes the lmhr observation because these people are quite a bit like L mhrs and it shows that that higher LDL tells you nothing about the incidence of heart disease in these people what about Interventional studies are there studies that can tell us about L mhrs right now if they would benefit with use of a Statin so here's a paper that was actually discussed um this morning the 4S study which is one of the largest effects ever as far as Statin benefits but the nice thing about this study is it's a reanalysis of that 4S based on people's triglyceride to HDL level so in this reanalysis everyone in the study had high ldlc in the range as you can see from 176 to 195 again you're in the lmhr range so what you've got are two groups one group has very high triglycerides at 195 and low HDL so their ratio is 5.9 these people are unhealthy they have what's called atherogenic dyslipidemia and you're comparing them now again to the people with extremely high LDL but they've got low triglycerides at 89 High HDL at 63 so their ratio is 1.4 and they're called isolated high LDL their LMR lmh are likee and so now what you've got are four groups you'll have Placebo groups and you'll have the healthy and the unhealthy all of which start off with high LDL so what we have here is the placebo group is showing a high incidence of uh coronary event and their LDL is 185 they are given a Statin which reduced their LDL and dramatically reduced the incidence of events this is the biggest effect I've ever seen with a benefit with Statin reducing from 35 to 20% that's an absolute risk reduction of 15% but now let's look at the people with the same high LDL but these are healthy people so these people now had that same high LDL at 182 but these people have low triglycerides and high HDL and so you see that dramatic reduction in the incidence of heart disease which is independent of their LDL levels and now these people are giving a Statin and that is a nonsignificant effect there is a dramatic reduction of LDL down to about 112 but no significant benefit when these people are given a Statin so in a s you have a choice so if you have u high LDL and also high triglycerides low HDL which means you're metabolically unhealthy you can stake a Statin and this would indicate there would be benefits but along with those benefits come the side effects which I completely agree with Dr Ali that there would be cognitive side effects increased incidence of diabetes as well as muscle issues or you could lower those triglycerides ra Raaz your HDL with lifestyle dietary changes there is another study that relates to this as well and this was done in elderly people that had high LDL and so you had people who either had high LDL and low HDL or high LDL and high HDL so what you've got here once again is the people with low HDL okay given the Statin Prav Statin had a lower incidence of coronary events so there is a benefit in taking the Statin to the people who are unwell that is metabolically damaged now let's look at the people who have high HDL so again the placebo group shows a significant reduction in events because these are metabolically more healthy and the placebo group now we compare them to those given the Statin and there is no benefit so this is very clear indication that a Statin can have a benefit for a person that is metabolically challenged the Statin does not have a benefit for someone who is metabolically healthy and in fact the authors point this out that LDL Baseline had no relation to the coronary event and the reduction in LDL was also not related to any benefit it all had to do with the initial HDL level those with low HDL had a benefit from the statins those with high HDL had no benefit from the statins and so why is it that statins actually can benefit the people who are unwell well it's been known for decades that statins have what's called pleotropic effects statins have anti-clotting effects um anti-inflammatory effects and so for the person that is unwell that has excess clotting and excess inflammation there can be a benefit of the Statin and it may very very well be I think it's we don't really know but the small dense LDL we can call is damaged it's been oxidized it doesn't bind well to the LDL receptor it's got to be removed by macrofagos it is glycated which means ex extra glucose is binding to that LDL and damaging its function so potentially then the Statin is reducing all LDL which means it's also reducing the small dense LDL which may have a role ultimately in in developing heart disease so ultimately the Statin benefit has really nothing to do with its LDL lowering what's most important really are these plyopic effects but again what comes along with the statins are the well described but largely ignored adverse effects so summarize this for now people with extremely high LDL whether it's FH or not FH can live a long healthy cardiovascular disease free life life people with insulin resistance Metabolic Syndrome have the highest rate of cardiovascular disease and there that cardiovascular disease is independent of their ldlc the people with high triglycerides low HDL have a high rate of coronary events and that is then associated with the small dense LDL and is not associated with large buoyant LDL so statins can reduce coronary events for those that are unwell those have metabolic syndrome and that is independent of their ldlc reduction and so then what we also found with these intervention studies is that statins do not provide a benefit for people with isolated High ldlc which is like the lmhr isolated high LDL C in people who are otherwise healthy this would predict therefore that the Statin should provide no benefit for the um lmhr people so is there a model then that can incorporate all of this to be able to understand cardiovascular disease and L mhrs well the basic model is right here you'll see this in textbooks and in reviews that LDL somehow just finds its way through the endothelium it's then oxidized taken up by macras and reeks havoc and then produces a plaque well there's clearly something wrong with this because it's well described that again as I've shown you people with high LDL don't develop heart disease so it can't just be a concentration dependent um effect of LDL simply pushing its way into the artery if they did then everybody with high LDL would have heart disease so there's got to be more to this story the critical factor that is not addressed sufficiently the one that really is the the physical risk factor that ultimately either protects us or leaves us open to develop heart disease is called the glyco calic the endothelial glyco Kix so in the typical model all you see is an endothelium but really what's happening in our artery is we've got this protective layer kind of looks like a furry layer and its lines are arteries and this is what you see in a healthy person red blood cells can pass through platelets can pass through without showing aggregation without producing clotting so you have a large buyant LDL low blood GL glucose triglycerides and blood pressure and so there is no damage to the artery we are protected by the glycocalix what happens when we have more small dense LDL triglycerides glucose calcium then can accumulate because there is literally damage now because the endothelium has been denuded of the glycoala you have that damage in goes calcium in goes um a small dense LDL in goes platelet aggregation this is now damage which is repeated over and over over the course of decades and that helps us really to understand what is happening at the structural level that ultimately leads to why there can be an association of LDL with heart disease as well as why there's calcium accumulating and so there's a really nice study done on healthy people without heart disease looking at the very first indication of what develops the heart disease and that is damage to the glyco calic which is down here and so these people can actually measure the glyco calic damage in people and it shows the best prediction of who is it that develops heart disease and this is primary indication for heart disease so damage to the glyco Alix precedes any other measure far superior of course compared to LDL so summarize I've covered quite a a bit of information in a short period of time much of what I've covered is in this review that I had the pleasure to write with Ben bman and Paul Mason we reviewed all the benefits of low carb diet and the only real concern is this increase in ldlc which I've already told you is a very poor measure of heart disease risk so ldlc is largely useless people really shouldn't pay attention ldlc because it's a faulty marker the low carb diet improves all primary risk factors for cardiovascular disease I would conclude then there is simply no evidence-based reason for why L mhrs should even be concerned about their high ldlc and certainly why they should not be lowering their ldlc so I want to just acknowledge that there are just so many people that I've learned from I've got chapters in these books and I highly recommend the chapter on cardiovascular disease that was largely written by Dr Ali I was lucky enough to be included as a co-author so I highly recommend this book on ketogenic diet and I thank you [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: nozwoB2Uzfo (https://youtu.be/nozwoB2Uzfo) ===

hello wo what a conference huh [Applause] yeah the main resistance to accepting fructo oric acid metabolism as a main Central driver of metabolic disease is the assumption that only fructose opens that pathway how many of you have ever heard of a molecular trigger before this is kind of what I thought so today I'm going to tell you about a molecular trigger that is the survival switch which is a glucose sensor with which polyol fructose uric acid metabolism is opened with all of the effects of adding exogenous fructose let's make sure I get the button right here ah okay so here you're looking at the survival switch characterized or constituted by four enzymes glucokinase Aldos reductase fructokinase on the right and phosphofructokinase one on the left notice that glucokinase and OS reductase are sitting a top a cliff well a top of a fork in a road the left side is the cellular choice to do glycolysis the Right Fork is the cellular choice to do polyol pathway into fructose KY into the fructokinase reaction and then fullon fructose uric acid metabolism I consider gluc kinas and Aldos reductase to be a Gateway and both glucokinase and Aldos reductase are sensitive to the concentration of glucose and I I will get to that in a minute both phosphofructokinase 1 and fructokinase are special both of them catalyze trapdoor reactions these are doorways once opened where these reac actions are irreversible once the reaction is open then the 100% commitment is made to the pathway of whatever the choice is if it's pfk1 you're asking for fullon glycolysis if it's fructal cyas we have fullon fructo fructose euric acid metabolism here you're looking at the fork under under low glucose concentrations I am defining low intracellular glucose concentrations at 5 Millar which is about 90 migs per deiler under those conditions hexokinase catalyzes the efficient conversion to low levels of glucose 6 phosphate then another transition and we hit the trapo pfk1 with 100% commitment to glycolysis the production of the glycolytic substrates lactate and pyruvate which can enter the mitochondria and be burned to produce ATP along with those other substrates this I characterize as the burning State and then before I realize I forgot something so on the Right Fork both glucokinase under these conditions and alos reductase are inactivated glucokinase under low glucose is sequestered in the nucleus uh bound up to its regulatory protein glucokinase regulatory protein and Al do reductase is in its inactivated State now in the normal uh let's see I think if I go back yeah under normal polyol pathway which is underneath Aldos reductase in this this initial slide that consists of two biochemical steps so when Aldos reductase gets activated we have the efficient transformation of glucose to sorbitol by Aldos reductase and then sorbitol to endogenous fruct fructose this is going on right in the liver with sorbitol dehydrogenase now when we Elevate the glucose above 5 Millar intracellular intra liver glucose above 90 migs per deiler we activate both glucokinase and Alo and also Aldos reductase glucokinase is going to be released by glucokinase regulatory protein it will translocate into the cytoplasm where it will begin to operate very quickly on the pulled glucose that is there it's important to understand that glucokinase is not only activated by glucose it is also activated by micromolar micromolar concentrations of sorbitol fructose and fructose one phosphate the substrates of fructose initial fructose uric acid metabolism the difference in activatable concentration is a thousandfold in other words glucokinase is more sensitive to activation by uh substrates of fructose than it is to glucose now once we activate the polyol pathway the glucose is going to be pushed into endogenous fructose fructokinase is going to operate it's a trapdoor mechanism so that step is going to happen very very quickly and the thermody ther Dynamics are extremely favorable that means everybody who's showing up there is going to get converted to fructose one phosphate with the formation of fructose one phosphate we have a sudden decline in cellular ATP we have a sudden decline in phosphate with the burst of amp we have two two or three steps later the sudden acute rise in uric acid and uric acid is a signaling molecule that is going to change the function of the mitochondria and I will get to that in a second backing up to the polyol pathway when fructose uric acid metabolism is open through polyol over 30% of the intracellular glucose is being pumped into endogenous fructose the pathway itself is operating with connect itics that are over 10 times faster than the glucokinase reaction that's converting glucose to glucose 6 phosphate now the result of that is that we are going to pull glycer alahh and dihydroxy acetone phosphate which feeds back into glycolysis underneath the pfk1 step causing a warberg effect the result being Downstream that we are going to pull lactate and citate I will come back to what happens with the citate in a minute but the pulled uh lactate and citate functionally circle back and inhibit pfk1 downregulating the committed 100% committed step to glycolysis we also have an elevation in in acidosis within the liver at this point now we go back and we ask the question about what's going to happen to the mitochondria and we have a number of things that are flowing flowing full headest steem we have a sudden acute rise in uric acid which is a signaling molecule we also have open fructose uric acid metabolism with the substrates that are being produced one of the first things that we see in the literature is that there is a change in morphology of the mitochondria they become smaller they become fragmented and the inner membranes become irregular next we inhibit the TCA cycle because the crucial enzyme aconitase is inhibited by in a uric acid dependent mechanism causing citate coming back to that causing citate to pull in the mitochondria it shipped back out into the cytoplasm where two things happen first it circles back and downregulates pfk1 secondly it initiates denovo lipogenesis in the liver we have moving too fast sorry okay so we have a second kreb effect activation yeah okay so activation of fructose uric acid metabolism with the elevation in uric acid all right it activates carbohydrate response element binding protein this is an important aspect because what happens is that transcription factor is translocated into the nucleus where it activates the genes of denovo lipogenesis so think right now we have citate initiating that process we now have the initiation of of the genes of denovo lipogen genis including ATP citate lias acetel COA carboxylase fatty acid synthes and also stero wheel COA to saturas one now in The Matrix of the of the mitochondria we have the uric acid dependent inhibition of Eno hydrase which is a crucial enzyme that's required for beta oxidation of fatty acids so beta oxidation is being downregulated back in the cytoplasm we have denova lipogenesis rolling right along and as a result of that we start pooling malinal COA which with the excess lactate feeds back and inhibits the entry of the mitochondria by fatty acids by the inhibition of both cpt1 and also cpt2 we have the induction of the hypoxia inducible Factor hif1 Alpha and in concert with uric acid we have the downregulation of UIA cycle enzymes and lastly and not least because we have the activation and upregulation of amp deaminase we have the down regulation of am kinas and one of the functions of the activated amp kinas is to promote beta oxidation of fatty acids so we have significant changes to the mitochondria now the question becomes what happens with the insulin when we activate fructose uric acid metabolism I'll remind you through the polyol pathway activated by glucose first and foremost we see a decrease in the insulin receptor itself on the plasma membrane of the liver we see a decrease in the protein insulin receptor substrate 2 we see alteration in insulin receptor substrate one signaling we have an elevation in hepatic insulin resistance uh which based on the literature they call this a paradox because we have active denovo lipogenesis happening with the formation of oil droplets directly in the liver the packaging of triglycerides into vldl and then being pushed into the into the circulatory system at the very same time that we have gluconeogenesis and glycogenolysis not shut down which leads to the leakage of glucose back into the circulatory system at the same time when glucose is coming in and being processed by the liver we have the elevation and synthesis of Di glycerols camid and ail carnitines known instigators of insulin resistance and in the extracellular environment we have the downregulation of lipolysis both because of an insulin effect and a specific lactate inhibition stepping back from this and asking the question what are the main functions that are going to happen in the liver when we activate fructose metabolism glycogen synthesis denovo lipogenesis systemic inflammation and alteration of nitric oxide signaling which poses problems Downstream for the um cardiovascular system now it is often said that what happens in Las Vegas stays in Las Vegas however when we activate fructose euric acid metabolism in the liver what happens in the liver does not stay in the liver we have a wave of four factors that are propagated Downstream into the circulatory system that will operate on the peripheral tissues and organs with intracellular effects that mirror the kinds of things I'm talking about with the liver hyperinsulinemia hypoglycemia elevated lactate and elevated uric acid I believe that the chronic activation of polyol fructose uric acid metabolism explains most if not all as An Origin metabolic diseases and lastly this effect that we see in the liver is as much about the glucose as it is about the fructose thank you thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: WkJPJeLAK_A (https://youtu.be/WkJPJeLAK_A) ===

Susan bruny provides insight into weight management and health contributing personal experience to discussions on the lean mass hyper responder phenotype please welcome Susan [Applause] bruny hello I'm Susan bruny and I'd like to ask a question basically is your low car high fat diet killing your naturally lean spouse this is a question that uh I've unfortunately been asking myself a bit lately um this is a picture back in the day of the two of us and I'm wondering if there are people out here who have such great balance between themselves and their spouse are you Jack Sprat or are they and are you licking the platter clean but it takes both of you to do it and what are the problems with that so who the heck am I I'm a citizen I'm basically a novice and a mistak maker um I'm a person who has stumbled into this by various things that I've done wrong and um as I started to do things right I believe I became uh a lean mass hyper responder and I was a study participant uh I met my husband working at the hospital as an X-ray tech he is a lifelong Clinical Laboratory scientist but I spent most of my career as an electrical engineer and he is not here at the conference but he's sharing his data wrong button okay so this is me back when I had my healthiest blood work as you can see here uh all the doctors were really happy with me um but you can see here by the way that anybody who thinks that the study participants had a healthy user bias well think again anyway my um focus was weight lost and in 2011 I quit my job I I had a very stressful job long hours big commute lot of stress and that was what led um amongst other things which was constant dieting where I would lose weight and then gain it back in a little bit more so dieting had actually gotten me there but Gary TOS changed things for me for the first time when I stumbled into to the book good calories bad calories as Borders Books was closing I was so done with the diet section but I thought what this is the opposite of things that I thought and then I went on to read why we get fat my husband on the other hand is a lifelong cardio guy he's a a an ultramarathon uh guy Elite 223 Marathon carbal loader here he is is proudly standing with his box of Aunt Jima pancake mix in the kitchen but it was whole wheat so hey he's a healthy guy so for him he's eating my cooking as I'm going down this road and we're not worried at all about him because he's not fat I'm fat so I have the problem and he can do whatever he wants to do so he's eating the the meals that I cook primarily at dinner but sometimes at breakfast and then adding stuff like this so like I said he's pretty healthy he's got the whole wheat bread the nuts the dried fruit and he you know washes it down with some nice beer organic of course or occasionally worse you know and for him a lot of times it'd be in the break room everybody brings in the donuts or the the sces those are really healthy so I called it a low carb diet and I consider myself pretty novice and so I never really thought of it as a high fat diet it was just low carb that I was personally looking at and it's only recently that I'm starting to question uh whether seed oils are actually one of the fundamental drivers that eventually makes us carb sensitive but I would say generally that I focused on subtraction which most people are instead of addition which means I hope you're right when you've narrowed what you're eating down but it was really hard to figure out a fat I generally used olive oil for cooking a lot of roasted vegetables salad um so you know I wasn't extremely low carb so some of the possible problems for a lean person is first off assuming that being thin is healthy we would go to restaurants and it's like okay I'm not going to eat the bread or the potatoes are you going to eat that you know so he's actually you know more likely to eat what I'm not eating uh this tweet on the side I won't bother going into but it it pointed out the Randall cycle which I had never heard of but some of the dangers or possible dangers of combining the carbs and the fats because those don't really occur in nature except for things intended to fatten us like nuts for hibernation or milk for fattening babies but I didn't know anything about that and then are lean people going to hit their personal fat threshold sooner um that's a question and we're starting to to look at so this is me uh so I had made some vast improvements from 2011 to 2018 and you can see there my cholesterol number going up and um my BMI was around 24 so I was doing pretty good and uh I still had a few pounds to lose but I wasn't as strict as I later became and this is my husband at that time he went ahead and went in the doctor which he hardly ever did and he saw his A1C was at 5.6 being a professional in area he was really aware of the fact that now that a1cs have become so common that they've gone to a a method of testing that is not quite as accurate as the one he was originally doing on patients so he called Kaiser to find out and they said roughly it could vary as much as 0.5 so he wrote it off so step forward what happened to me was that I up my game I was going on a major backpacking trip and I wanted to really take it to the next level I started going to two meals a day low much lower carb and really starting to exercise seriously I felt like I was in the best shape I'd ever been in hadn't been to the doctor in forever and I cut my finger and it was kind of bad so I had to go in for wound care and my doctor is saying you know you haven't had blood work in a while so I thought okay here we go and uh so I had my blood work done and this is what it was and uh I thought well I I don't know uh I'm in the best shape I've ever been in in my life so what's I think it must be okay so I started looking and I found the term lean Mouse hyperr and didn't know anything about that so the second time my life changed dramatically was Finding Dave Felman going on the Facebook group and volunteering for the study because I had all the lab work going back to the 80s because of my husband meanwhile here he is and you can see right there there's a little bit of a little bit of a pouch coming out but he's generally very lean and he had gone to two meals a day with me even at that time so at the same year he went in and got his blood work done and the two values I've got in red here show what happened to him when he changed his BMI from 19 to a fat 21 so he has an L LDL of 183 and as A1C is now pre-diabetic so what's a lean person to do which one of these two things do you go down this road because I had just learned enough to know that he's likely to become a lean mass hyper responder if he focuses on the A1C so you know we're both science science type people so we did a lot of testing his blood pressure has always been extremely good and his pulse he he did a CA score he didn't really want to go into the details there but I'll just say it showing risk but at the same time we both did dexa scan and did the V2 Max and both of us were on the table oh you're going to live to 103 so I love the way these tests one of them says you're dying tomorrow and the other one you're going to live forever and uh just continue here with some of his numbers he has a very low LP little a but his inflammation marker of the CRP was a little bit high so we turn to the studies so here's what you learn from studies breaking news all peer-reviewed studies are false says new peer-reviewed study and unfortunately this is the sad state of what's going on because of Pharma and food influencing these studies well we looked at some headlines and we found that China and India are the largest growth of diabetics worldwide and they are lean people and we started looking around at people we knew here's another thing Marathon running it can increase C scores so who knows you know when this developed could have been way back in the day or it could be that cardio is really not very good for you and then of course we had to at least uh humor our doctor with the statins but the top two reasons not to do it are it aggravates insulin resistance and increases cck scores his two big problems and who wants muscle loss cognitive decline and you know it doesn't help all cause mortality I love this quote and for any of you who have gone down this Rabbit Hole you'll recognize the name Peter from hyperlipid which particular cancer would you prefer to trade for your heart attack so we decided to follow the advice of Seinfeld and do what George castanza did and to do everything the opposite of our Natural Instinct because everything will go well after that so here's what happened he decided to focus uh on his metabolic health and go with me with a a low carb high fat diet and so his numbers from Fall of 2022 until just recently he is has lowered his A1c to 5.4 but he's a lean mass hyper responder now which we don't know is that good or bad so for choosing a plan we chose metabolic Health instead of being focused on the LDL and to look at diet and exercise we've both added strength training we're still doing cardio but we're wondering about that we're trying to judge by how we actually feel we say take it to the lab this is the lab and we continue to look for answers we're really grateful for the ability to use own your Labs dexas scan and the face group group we just keep eating up the YouTubes and reading books but you got to stay open-minded so I know everybody wants to talk about n equals 1 we're n equals 2 so our my recommendations still killing my naturally lean spouse I don't know and that's why we need this this study more studies like it and why we all need to keep donating to the citizens Science Foundation thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: wNvwjcIhzlM (https://youtu.be/wNvwjcIhzlM) ===

Raphael CI combines expertise in molecular biology and paleoanthropology to contribute significantly to cancer metabolism and ketogenic diet research please welcome Raphael [Applause] ctoi hello hello okay much better much better uh it's an honor to be here today and to present the work I'm doing with ancestral IED one of the companies I'm working for so thank you for your attention and thank you to the organizers so ancestral is a Hungarian company and the theme really is ancestral Health principles in the world of n equals 1 uh does anybody here not know the expression n equals 1 raise your hand if you don't know what it means so n equals one is the shortterm scientific notation to say a sample of one which simply refers to a self- experiment that you would do on yourself so it's really the intersection of ancestral health and self- experimentation that I'm here to talk about today so what is ancestral it's an app at the most basic level that's what we're developing and it should be out in 2025 what is its main goal well like most nutrition Health tracking apps it's to make users healthy how does it work now this is where it gets a little Technical and interesting it's a ban Network so a statistical ban Network that estimates your probability of particular conditions and then also uh recommends ways to reduce your risk at the basic level so what is it all BAS B on it comes back to ancestral Health principles as we think this is crucial uh to make good decisions in uh medicine because medicine is very complicated and I think it's useful to know where we came from how we evolved and that's the underlying ethos in the app as well so a quick road map of my talk so I'm going to talk about what we do at ancestral eyes uh I'm a senior medical researcher in the medical research team uh the second part is going to be how ancestral and the citizen Science Foundation overlap so why am I here today what's the relevance and third how ancestral departs from the mainstream meaning mainstream medicine mainstream Healthcare and other nutrition tracking apps as well so what we do is ancestral eyesee is find out what causes disease and as you can see this tangled web of causal connections is a beijan network so this is what the raw version of what we're building looks like uh it's loads of different disease nodes and symptoms and pathological mechanisms and it looks very complicated but the advice we give hopefully will be very straightforward so we try to find out what causes disease by as you can imagine reading papers but not only we talk to doctors we talk to researchers we read case reports we talk to real people uh and we use every line of evidence that we can to try to figure out what causes disease and of course we also need to find the interventions that are likely to work and of course a lot of that as you can imagine is going to be low carb keto carnivore friendly um but of course there's much more to it than that there are supplements there's other lifestyle aspects so we've got a pretty big roster of interventions to suggest to people but we've got to research them and make sure that there's a good evidence base behind them and they're they're plausible and finally once we've identified as best we can the causes of disease and the potential Solutions we have to build a disease model so we have to make sense of it how these things work together uh how effective they are What are the side effects and we need a disease model and this is back to the tangled web of uh causal connection that you see here so we need to put our foot down on what causes heart disease what causes insulin resistance and we can't Simply Be agnostic uh about it so how do we estimate disease risk so this is supposed to represent statistics and I no expert statistician so hopefully uh I'm not going to say too much nonsense on this slide but essentially our disease model forms our initial belief then we have have uh the users of the app uh give their Labs their symptoms their diet their family history lifestyle habit all sorts of things and this is represented uh by the the red uh curve here the called the likelihood function and then this forms a revised belief which is the actual disease risk and I like the terminology revised belief because I think that's a crucial part of any good doctor is yes they may have an idea of you know the patient it's likely to come across their desk and what's wrong with them but once they listen to that patient and take in the data they will revise their belief about what's going on exactly and this is why I I wanted to emphasize this uh beijan approach statistical approach to how we calculate disease risk so then we have a menu of interventions that we propose so here's a very simple word cloud to give you an idea of what we're all about so we're big on Resistance tra training we're big on keto uh you know we look into uh electrolytes like magnesium sun exposure cold exposure Psychotherapy you know even socializing uh meditation breath work and I could go on Carnivore there's way way more things um so there's there's a lot of options that we're able to propose to people and of course in order to be effective you have to be able to track so at the simplest level that could be tracking your carbs you can you know have reminders set for that and it's important to track your progress to essentially make sure that what you're doing works and you know not simply believe it's going to work and hope for the best you actually have to track track it so that could be headaches it could be waste circumference could be you know many different things and a really uh thing we're we're big on is the education part so you're not only going to receive a recommendation but also an explanation about how to do it and why behind the intervention we're trying to make sure that um the users actually understand why they're doing something uh not simply be told to do it and you know not question essentially so that's what they would get after an estimation of their disease risk um they can get a set of interventions that they can choose from and see how much it can decrease their disease risk which hopefully will be a motivating factor for them so part two is the philosophical overlap between ancestral eyes and the citizen science foundation so this is something that's near and dear to my heart because I think it's uh really important nowadays um so how many people have heard of the hashtag do your own research okay so this hashtag emerged during covid as you all remember it was a very very confusing time everyone became a virology expert and an epidemiologist um and so this hashtag uh appeared and it was do your own research and it was very controversial like anything at that time so I'm going to read this sentence because I actually really really like it it embodies the tension between empowering individuals to seek knowledge independently and the continuous challenge of uh filtering out Dogma ideology and propaganda from science thank you I'm glad you're clapping because that's how I felt when when I when I read that um and I think this is this the overlap um we're about self-experimentation not taking things on Authority um but also recognizing that there are pitfalls there is no perfect approach but I think empowering individuals so they can act independently is a good and one we should really seek to protect so I also want to talk to you about the difference between what's common and what's normal and this is maybe a little bit abstract so please interrupt me if I'm not making sense here um so let's just use a question to illustrate is obesity common or normal so common means something occurs often but doesn't necessarily represent what should be considered typical or standard so that might be catching a cold it's perfectly common but it is not the normal state of health normal state of health is to be healthy essentially and normal means what is expected to occur for our species in its natural environment that would be for example not having chronic diseases of civilization like diabetes right that is not normal to have these conditions for our species because they've emerged so recently and I think this is a crucial distinction that's often lost and is often the source of a a loss of Hope for a lot of people they are told that their condition is normal when it is in fact simply and I think this is a Nuance that's really missed in a lot of healthare and the way that I suggest people can extract themselves from this confusion is to use this powerful combination which is evolutionary biology which means understanding where your species came from how you evolved what was the environment what was what would you encounter and then also conducting your own n equals 1 self experiments I think this helped helps reset and raise your expectations around health so with that combination I think it's very very powerful and I know for a fact that a lot of people in this room have changed their life by using those things so lastly how is ancestral different so I'm going to illustrate this with a simplified and I'm emphasizing this a simplified model of insulin resistance something where probably all very familiar with uh at least in in theory if not in if not in practice so these um blue boxes represent um um causes of the disease potentially the red box uh down there is insulin resistance and the orange boxes are the pathological mechanisms so this is a very basic layout of of our insulin resistance Network and the classical model is about oh well insulin resistance is just about you know energy overload too many calories you know not enough calories out uh saturated fat is bad poofers are good um this is the classical model of of insulin resistance essentially and we think that's wrong that's not how we how we build it so we think there's intestinal barrier dysfunction and chronic possibly lowgrade inflammation so as some famous doctor that I can't recall now said it all starts in the gut we think that's probably true for insulin resistance as well but there's also what's happening at the level of the mitochondria in the cell and it's mitochondrial Ross derived alterations in insulin signaling and what that word salad means is that the Ross you can imagine that as the fumes from your the tailpipe of your car and these fumes really tell the cell its energetic State and how it is going to handle the insulin receptors that it has on its surface to take it more or less energy in so we're drawing a line from the gut to the mitochondria To Explain insulin resistance and we're not reducing it to just calories and too much saturated fat like the classical model is so this is the sort of framework that you can expect if you were to use the ancestral app so I wanted to try to make as clear as possible how ancestral was different from the main stream medical system and in truth it's also different from the alternative Med medical system so it's different than allopathic medicine but also alternative medicine so first of all we're grounded in evolutionary biology and the mainstream just ignores evolutionary biology not only do they ignore it they even negate it in some cases which is astonishing because that would never happen in physics we all accept the the physics Newtonian physics quantum physics that's not happening in medicine we've ignored evolutionary biology we perform a root cause analysis of problems and the mainstream just does a surface level symptom analysis we try to get fewer pills whenever possible and the mainstream try to tries to push newer pills whenever possible we're heavy into preventative medicine and as you know Healthcare is not about preventative medicine we're very lifestyle forward I mean their lifestyle advice is given and when it is it's usually harmful so that's another big difference we really encourage self-experimentation and skepticism and the mainstream just makes arguments by Authority and discourages skepticism and I think we've all had this experience in a doctor's office for different reasons sadly so I think this really does illustrate some some major differences so in conclusion I want to leave you with my favorite quote but also just a summary that the ancestral lied recipe combines beian statistics evolutionary biology medical trials molecular biology epidemiology case reports and anything else that we can use to build consilience of evidence for multiple domains we do not use the evidence pyramid we do not invoke that as a standard of evidence I think we have something a bit more realistic uh and effective and lastly the app is here to make it easier for for you to carry out your own self- experiments and extract maximal value from them so the quote my favorite quote is from theodus dubanski an evolutionary biologist who said Nothing in biology makes sense except in the light of evolution so thank you for your attention and thank you to my colleagues

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: kT6c7QwTH7o (https://youtu.be/kT6c7QwTH7o) ===

Dr Ben bman specializes in bioenergetics and researching insulin's role in metabolic disorders and teaching at Brigham Young University please welcome Dr Ben bman thank you Rachel thank you so much Chris bear thanks for the drink at the back thanks for representing Utah so well um Chris in fact is doing all the video stuff for Dave there it really is a remarkable event um Dave thanks for inviting me uh I am happy to literally be lending my voice in support of this effort I have long been an advocate of the democratization of Science and truly appreciating what the word scientist means which is my as my PhD Mentor taught um a scientist is a seeker of Truth and Once Upon a Time those answers those truths were sort of tucked back behind pay walls and written in a jargon that few people could understand indeed you needed a terminal degree it seemed but nowadays it's so much easier to find these answers and now even easier to contribute to them as well so I applaud all of the citizen scientists and I'm delighted to be counted among you um as you know of course my focus is insulin resistance uh which is a problem that is getting increasingly um some some airtime and rightly so of course because this is a problem that is the most common health problem worldwide uh and it is so relevant to so many chronic diseases um now however it uh in recent years I've heard the term insulin resistance invoked improperly and I like Precision I like um words to be used properly and very precisely just like the razor that crosses my head I want everything to be exact in fact the tragedy of my hairstyle is I actually spend more time doing my hair now than I did when I when I really was a redhead true story okay so let's talk about some of the myths and misconceptions associated with insulin resistance now this is this the statistic that I was alluding to just a moment ago where I mentioned that it's the most common health problem I was amazed um with this statistic now just as a point of reference you'll notice some of the pub Med ID numbers if you ever have a question about the source that's your way to find it um I was impressed by this manuscript published a few few years ago that indicated that up to 88% of adults within the US were considered metabolically unhealthy so as the scientists or the the clinical team noted they suggested that it was an an alarmingly low number of American adults had a healthy metabolic profile now how did they determine this well they looked at uh aspects of the metabolic syndrome this cluster of of complications um that seems to to always come together and indeed uh they they do uh to some degree or another and that it was that these people they found that the 88% of adults had at least one of these and so they were somewhere along this spectrum towards poor metabolic Health now earlier we've heard mention already of Gerald Ren and George Cahill in particular and these fellows who contributed so much to our understanding of metabolism also contributed to our understanding of the metabolic syndrome um which again is the absence of these things and all of these things have something in common and that's why all of this used to be called the insulin resistance syndrome I remember when I first found that paper and my journey into studying insulin resistance is just a remarkable one and truly you'll pardon me perhaps if this is offensive I thank God that I was directed to study what I do uh because it's something that I love talking about and it's something that matters and I indeed have felt somewhat directed in my life um so let's talk a little thank you um let's talk a little bit about insulin resistance then in the past as you have heard me talk about this before if you have ever heard me maybe some of you haven't I'm Ben nice to meet you um but I've always talked about the path the pathological side of insulin resistance the version of insulin resistance that is contributing to all of these chronic diseases and none of these is put here by happen stance again very precise there's evidence to support insulin resistance being causal or an exacerbating factor in every one of these disorders and this is which is one of the reasons why I beat that drum so loudly if you became aware that amongst all the medications you're taking for your variety of chronic diseases that there was one single thing you could do one strategy you could Embrace to improve one particular outcome and in so doing reduce the risk or improve the outcomes associated with all those diseases wouldn't you want to know um I think you would so this is the pathological version of insulin resistance however there is a twin like Dr Johnson's um Tale of Two Sugars There's A Tale of Two insulin resistances there's a pathological version and there is in fact a physiological version some of you have heard this term before which is the point of this talk because if you have heard the term physiological insulin resistance mentioned in any context other than growth you've not heard it mentioned properly because this is when it is relevant now the pathological version of insulin resistance is an insulin resistance that hurts your body and contributes to diseases as indicated whereas physiological insulin resistance is one that develops at a particular time of life for a particular purpose it serves its purpose and then it goes away now over the time we have together and I'm particularly delighted that I was given a little more than some others because it's hard to get a professor to stop once he gets going so don't try to stop me I got my eye on the clock and I'll make sure I do it in time but I would love to have time for questions at the end so I'm going to keep a pretty good pace so over the time we have together I want to go through three questions making sure that we have a common definition of insulin resistance uh understanding the origins in both patholog iCal and physiological and then touching and answering explicitly the question that gave rise to physiological insulin resistance being invoked improperly which is what is the relevance of insulin resistance in the context of a low carbohydrate diet because that's where there is a lot of misunderstanding okay what is insulin resistance let's start by just noting insulin is unique among its class of hormones because it is capable of affecting every single cell of the body and that is rare among a lot of hormones and there are so many different types and so many different families but insulin stands apart because every single cell of the body from brain cells to bone cells from lung cells to liver cells has insulin receptors little doorways that are specifically designed for insulin as it is flowing through the blood to come and knock on the door of the cell in so doing telling the cell to do something now now that something can depend on the cell which is why I'm giving it this very generic title of action because what insulin will tell an arthrite or a red blood cell to do is very different from what it would tell the Thea cells of the ovary to do and so we'll just call it action now unfortunately due to or in its most famous action is its effect on glucose where and again I emphasize my word here my my wording which is its most famous what I'm not saying is insulin's most important action but and indeed so many people view glucose regulation as insulin's most important action that they get into trouble they don't understand insulin resistance properly and are left focusing on a marker that doesn't matter as much as they think namely glucose now nevertheless insulin's most famous effect is to knock on the door of some cells and open the door for glucose to come in to be stored or to be used for fuel or to be turned into fructose or something else it's somehow going to be metabolized um So that's its most famous effect now unfortunately due to certain stimuli which we'll get to in just a moment um and I'll highlight what I consider to be the primary ones uh the action of insulin is going to be reduced and so this right here is the insulin resistance part part of what we call insulin resistance and so the most famous and long awaited consequence of this will be that glucose levels start to climb now as glucose levels start to climb it actually ends up contributing further to this vicious cycle where if this much insulin is insufficient to keep the glucose where the body wants it kept well then the body can respond to that and increase the amount of insulin so now what was once a polite knocking on the door of the cell becomes an angry mob all in an effort to try to get the cell to listen as well as it did before and restore its action which to varying degrees is capable of working but right now there's a very important thing to note which is that insulin resistance or a cell not responding is not a universal phenomenon that only happens at some cells of the body whereas other cells of the body are as insulin sensitive as they ever were but now they are subjected to the angry mobs and they answer to all of it and so where as one cell has a reduced sensitivity to the signal another cell because of all of the insulin now is over responding in indeed that brings me to the next point that I've been alluding to so there's really two aspects so insulin resistance is a coin with two sides one side being that insulin isn't working properly at all of the cells of the the body certain cells of the body and two is that when we zoom out from the cell and look at the whole body insulin levels are much higher than they used to be and this is so important there is no insulin resistance without hyperinsulinemia unless a person is truly starving like true starvation I just that's a little asterisk true starvation actually can cause insulin resistance without high insulin anything other than true starvation like you've run out of fat and now you're burning muscle for energy is going to be this insulin isn't working particularly well and blood insulin levels are higher all right so that's the definition now let's actually get into the question that I teed up on a teed up a moment ago um which is where does it come from you've seen likely if you've heard me or seen me present before I use this Paradigm a lot and I'll find a new way to present it lest I start to bore you because nothing worse for a professor than losing his group of students because they get bored um so here we have the typical timeline in fact let me back up for just a moment the the primary clinical marker of insulin resistance is glucose and that is because uh a conventionally trained clinician has a hard time separating the two or I have had amusingly frustratingly circular discussions with clinical groups um where I will say in order to understand insulin resistance you must measure the insulin and they will say well I don't need to measure the insulin because I'm measuring the glucose and I will say no to measure insulin resistance you need to measure insulin no I don't need to measure the insulin because I'm measuring the GL it literally just becomes circular um but it we just have to remember that they are not the same thing and as much as glucose is the primary driver for insulin I will use the definitive the definite article there high glucose is the main driver of insulin it does not mean that they're always going to be coupled and indeed in insulin resistance most especially at the front end of it you'll notice that it's not and indeed let me just really bring your attention to that by superimposing two distinct time points the first being a state where glucose is persistently staying in a normal range even if it is slightly elevated perhaps it's not reached a point of Problem by conventional clinical uh metrics um but while the glucose is staying normal the insulin is not it's taking ever more insulin to keep the glucose in check in other words the insulin isn't working particularly well at these tissues and I'll emphasize those tissues more in just a moment and then eventually due to a handful of stimuli the person would start to have this inflection point and now the glucose starts to be elevated but if it is true and then they've ventured from pre-diabetes which is synonymous with insulin resistance into full type 2 diabetes and at that point it's important to note no surprise there's no accident um if it's true type 2 diabetes insulin will never go to zero at that if that's happened it is no longer type two it is as Jessica discussed earlier it is l l which to me is a cheap Soviet era vehicle having lived in Russia but it also means something else okay some that's a pretty obscure reference does anybody get that reference yeah um okay so here we have the insulin curve if you compare the type two diabetic even if insulin has come down it is still multiples higher than where it was when they were insulin sensitive this is exactly what it's going to be like if anything it just as often can stay up here and it would have been a hashed flat line insulin does not go to zero even if its production has started to come down which would certainly accelerate the climbing of glucose okay but if we're looking at insulin resistance we need to appreciate the insulin curve now let's superimpose even another layer here and talk about the tissue Origins even though I'm not going to revisit this this would be a topic for another time and indeed it has been a topic at other times for me I firmly have a fat first focus when it comes to the the order of tissues that become insulin resistant I very much believe that it is the fat cells that become insulin resistant first and then they begin to heavily contribute it's the first Domino if you will that tumbles into the other dominoes these tissues that when they become insulin resistant um actually I can go ahead when they become insulin resistant that's when the body has a very hard time controlling the glucose which is why I put it where I did so I'm putting that the fat cells are really the first thing that's starting to move the body into this realm and then as these tissues become insulin resistant now we start to have that uncontrolled glycemia okay now there can be some variety to this but I very much espouse this um progression from tissue to tissue all right now here are what I consider to be the primary causes of insulin resistance but I am acutely aware and even deeply appreciative of the fact that just in today's lectures we've heard mention of two other causes including uric acid and including um micro uh the permeability of the intestinal wall um being leaky I very much uh am I very much actually appreciate both of those and agree with them um it just seems uh more and more that those work primarily through inflammation so I have what I consider to be um primary causes that each one on its own is capable of causing insulin resistance and these are just a handful of the citations I've put more on the hyperinsulinemia just because there are so many Knuckleheads who rail against that fact and I've I've literally done those experiments with my own hands and so I feel a particular indeed some of these citations are mine so I feel like I it's something it's Turf that I'm prepared to defend quite vigorously because most of the Knuckleheads have contributed to none of this work they just speak with a false Authority um so yes all right um now let's just go through them very very briefly um and it's it's my particular Delight right now to mention some of these things because right now as a professor I'm teaching a graduate level in endoc ology and we've just got done actually going through adrenal gland um Endocrinology so looking at the adrenal glands and its contribution which is heavy and substantial the adrenal glands among the Myriad hormones they produce have these two famous stress hormones indeed these are the poster children of stress hormones there are more um but what's interesting is that while we call them both stress hormones they are totally unrelated they come from different cell types they don't even they come from parts of the adrenal gland that might not even may as well not even be part of the same gland they they're so different they come from different cell types they are very they're produced from different kind of Origins they're different types of hormones they move through the blood differently they act on different tissues differently the one thing they really appear to have in common is that they both will increase blood glucose whether it is very Rapid or a little slower they both want to push glucose up well that puts them at odds with one particular hormone can you think of what it might be yeah of course there's the humble hormone insulin that now has to work a lot harder so let's feel a little sympathetic for it but suffice it to say if these two signals are persistent that means the upward pressure on glucose is persistent and that simply means insulin has to work harder and harder and we would call that insulin resistance all right now inflammation is one that I also enjoy talking about I don't teach a class on it that's actually more the realm of my colleague who's here Paul Reynolds um in fact if you haven't please go find him on social media because his contribution to the field more and more is looking at glycation and inflammation and suffice it to say when cyto kindes are elevated cyto kindes being these sort of if you will hormones of the immune system they will promote a reduction in insulin sensitivity or they they will promote insulin resistance and you see this anytime there is this upward pressure on inflammation something like the hypertrophy of the adapost tissue or as Paul Reynolds and I have already published a couple of these are our papers diesel exhaust particles and cigarettes smoke we've published reports finding that they cause insulin resistance and autoimmune disorders do as well in fact Paul and I are just about to publish a paper finding that diesel exhaust is capable of forcing osy hypertrophy even in totally independent of any calorie signal eat the same amount of food the animals get a little scrawnier but their fat cells get fatter and that is not a good tradeoff they're eating the exact same diet as their genetic they're they're identical twins and just the exposure to diesel exhaust being inhaled um was actually causing this atpy hypertrophy okay now the last one I leave um deliberately at the end so that I can emphasize it a little more elaborately um and that is that too much insulin will cause insulin resistance again this is a principle that people rail against and you can just laugh heartily and make them all the more frustrated as you do so a tactic that I always encourage my kids to do in order to try to mitigate the fighting just laugh at them I say laugh at your sibling and it'll make them even angrier just to try to diffuse the tension and it never it has not worked yet but I'm going to keep I'm going to keep saying it all right now but even this is reflective of a fundamental biological principle which is too much of something will cause a resistance to that something we see this manifested just throughout all of nature throughout all of biology the reason individual chemotherapeutics aren't used it's always a gangbuster ver version of a chemotherapeutic why one antibiotic has to be rotated out or you can't keep taking it whether it is caffeine whether it is other hormones if there's too much of a signal a cell will attempt to become resistant to that signal in order to maintain its homeostasis and in particular although I'm not going to revisit this because it is a whole other topic as insulin is elevated it will directly promote atpy hypertrophy um this is an effect that is so relevant that there are studies in humans to look at an an insulin depend insulin treated diabetics that would include one type 1 and two although type two should never be treated with insulin by my um understanding but you can take an area where they've been giving themselves their insulin injections take a fat biopsy right here and then take a fat biopsy right a few centimet to the side of it and these fat cells that are getting the insulin injections are multiple times larger in volume and it's just because of all the insulin so anyone who tries to tell you that insulin is not promoting atpy hypertrophy join me once again and laughing in their face and enjoying their frustration growing even more you can tell that I am I'm one of 13 kids and I'm the youngest brother so I have very mature tactics on irritating siblings and it appears as I think about this in real time that it's an a metaphor that I go to often even though I don't intend to okay so here we have the pathological or to say to the pathogenic version of insulin resistance these are the pathogenic contributors listed here I consider them to be the primary causes because they're each independent of anything else but then I would have a different list of secondary causes which are very much relevant including the ones I mentioned men earlier and even a few more so if you're looking at this and you are indignant that I've left something off I'm probably familiar with it I just um have my own sort of internal classification and because you're here listening to me I get to be the one who says what I want to say all right now what about the physiological side it is a different Beast it is a different version of this disorder and what contributes to it what is its unique ideology well it is not as unique as you'd think because one of these is also relevant to the other side so hyperinsulinemia just as much as it is a cause in consequence of pathological insulin resistance it is also cause and consequence with physiological insulin resistance so we need to appreciate that it has this sort of dual role here but also we have a new character that you've never heard me talk about which is growth hormone growth hormone is another endocrine contributor to physiological insulin resistance and in fact it is the main one growth hormone is I would say fundamentally misunderstood when you think of growth hormone just humor me as the professor for a moment what do you think its primary action is in the body grow growth and as your professor you would have gotten that question wrong growth hormone its actual primary responsibility is to fuel the growth growth hor most growth actually happens from Downstream products of growth hormone a family of hormones called the somatomedin which are the insulin like growth factors have you guys heard of igf-1 or two or three those promote growth growth hormone primarily fuels that growth and one of the ways in which it fuels it mobilizes the energy to fuel the signal of growth and one primary fuel that gets mobilized is blood glucose so growth hormone will increase blood glucose substantially in any disorder of excessive growth hormone like acromegaly um for example if some of you have heard of that there it's almost a guarantee that person's going to become type two diabetic they become so insulin resistant because of this constant incessant pressure pushing up the glucose and as you saw earlier in a very similar Paradigm if glucose is constantly being pushed up who has to work a little harder to push it down yeah of course insulin so it's no surprise that as growth hormone is a persistent signal um that the body becomes more and more insulin resistant I kind of did a lot of pull-ups today so this mic is getting kind of heavy Dr Johnson always wants to know how many pull-ups I do I think he Rick every time we talk about workouts you're like how many can you do Ben he's like sizing me up so Rick someday you and I are going to have that competition okay and we'll do it with our shirts on I'm afraid everyone so Rick and I have very strict no nudity clauses in our social media okay all right so hyperinsulinemia and growth hormone when are they relevant well it is the two PS of physiological insulin resistance namely puberty and pregnancy what on Earth do these two states within the life of a human within the life of all humans that get to adulted and some humans um who are fortunate enough to contribute to the human race in a meaningful way and I do really truly mean that exclamation mark puberty and pregnancy they are both what they have in common is that they're both times of explosive growth truly the most remarkable condensed growth is going to happen during these two times any other time of growth is going to be a little more subtle even though childhood and infancy is pretty quick it pales in comparison to the growth that happens during puberty and even during pregnancy where mom's body is changing substantially and also she is very very busily growing the Next Generation so let's start with puberty because puberty would come first you'll notice this is a little tricky because I have two y axes so paron the a little potential for confusion but as usual um don't underestimate my color cating where insulin resistance is this dark blue and Insulin itself is this lighter royal blue it's not quite Royal but a lighter blue so this is what insulin levels would look like through the life of an average individual as they go from infancy it's climbing a little bit then boy when they get towards the end of childhood through adolescence insulin levels go up substantially I'm being a little dramatic here this is not actually tracking a real figure so pardon me being a little dramatic and but then at the end it starts to go up as most people start to become more insulin resistant with age for reasons we won't get into but if we have time for Q&A I'm happy to explore it um now if we superimpose insulin resistance boy it looks remarkably similar because they always go together so if insulin resistance is up no surprise that we see that the insulin levels are tracking now I mentioned another hormone a moment ago and and just before we mention that let me just show you type 1 diabetes is just such an easy way to show the Dynamics of insulin resistance and you can see over the life of a person with type 1 diabetes this peak during um adolescence that they need more and more and more and more insulin per kilogram so it's being controlled for body weight and then even as they continue to get older and bigger and older and bigger you can see that the actual amount of insulin that needs dropping this is a perfect example or a perfect display of what insulin resistance how insulin resistance is changing during the age of the person now let's bring in the other variable that I mentioned a moment ago and growth hormone is going to follow a similar Trend growth hormone is generally fairly low and then it really climbs during adolescence and starts to come back down and continues indeed to come down um somewhat through life all right now let's go to the next one with pregnancy the other the second P of the two PS of physiological insulin resistance the insulin resistance during pregnancy is largely the result of this new very active endocrine tissue the placenta and it is a very active endocrine gland it produces many many hormones that are spilling into the body of the mother um and then contributing very much to the development of the baby and among the many many hormones there are a couple worth mentioning human chonic somatotropin and then um human chonic gonadotropin HCG which um it this does contribute to a sense of nausea which is generally why it was used for weight loss because it makes you a little sick not unlike glp1 agonists and then human placental growth hormone that's the relevant one in this story because human Al growth hormone actually becomes the main source and it's not even close of growth hormone in Mom's body so when when that placenta starts producing growth hormone it almost completely replaces the growth hormone coming from her own pituitary gland the pituitary gland basically says all right I can take a back seat because all of the growth hormone starts coming from the placenta and it is more than before it goes up a lot and so this now is the same version of what we saw with puberty but here we see it with pregnancy where instead of adolescence we now have pre pregnancy itself and this is a very natural remember this is physiological I would hate for any of the ladies here to think oh man it sure sucks to be a woman because I'm going to get insulin resistant if I want to reproduce for the good of the species no don't don't curse it you need to have it happen it is natural even the healthiest pregnancies will manifest with an ins resistance but just to show you how relevant this is look at the insulin demands required this is in fact superimposed I literally just did my own version of the graph because I hated the way it looked I have a particular aesthetic which I know is funny for a bald shrinkle shriveled freckled guy that really care about how things look you think I'd be a little indifferent about it but I actually am not I have a very particular style so I just superimposed the figure on one that came from this paper but look at how much the insulin changes over the life over the the course of the pregnancy the amount of insulin the woman has to treat herself with doubles and this is again even looking at changes in body mass um the needs go up substantially so when we look at the human placental growth hormone curve no surprise that it's following a particularly similar Trend and this is why during the course of the pregnancy she's going to be getting ever more insulin resistant until the time that the baby is delivered now one other comment with regards to the placenta not only do we have the placental growth hormone which is compromising insulin sensitivity in the mother um but then we have a a variety of cytokines that are produced and you'll recall that I just mentioned the cyto kindes when I talked about inflammation now why is her placenta producing cyto kindes it's actually the same reason why the hypertrophic fat cells produce cyto kindes which is to stimulate vascular growth this is a way to basically in addition to activating immune Pathways one of the upsides of these cyto kindes is that it's stimulating the growth of new blood vessels which of course you need enormously if nowhere else than for the sake of the placenta which is growing substantially okay now let's get to the last Point um that I'll make in the minutes that we have left which is the degree to which a carbohydrate restricted diet is capable of causing insulin resistance is it even capable the answer is a resounding no so anytime you hear someone State and very prominent voices on social media will state that a ketogenic diet causes physiological insulin resistance and they prein because they think they sound so clever it is not true um it does not cause insulin resistance you don't meet any of those I mean even if someone says well I am cutting carbs or I'm fasting so I have a little elevation of growth hormone you have a modest elevation and growth hormone but at the same time your insulin has bottomed out you can't find a person who adopts a ketogenic diet and their insulin levels go up it is it is antithetical to the very process of ketogenesis insulin will always come down and so you're immediately stripping away one of the absolute essential variables that is a feature and a cause of physiological insulin resistance so while the answer is a resounding no to the question does carbohydrate restricting cause physiological insulin resistance however there's a but no but in insulin production changes from the beta cells and now we're really getting to the meat of the matter here so if insulin production changes it's not surprising that you can expect to see differences in glucose Dynamics in certain instances and this is the instance I mean so if someone does an oral glucose tolerance test a normal person who's eating a standard Western diet which is to say it's abundant in carbohydrates but they have managed to stay insulin sensitive which some people do I e due to age or Athletics or whatever but they eat carbs their body is accustomed to using carbs for fuel and they're insulin sensitive now you'll notice the insulin is going to be the hashed line and the glucose curve is going to be a solid line the glucose line will look something like this so it's come up to a nice degree and that you'll notice I'm not putting any metrics here that's no for for no particular reason um what the actual glucose would be but it's important to note that it reaches a particular height and then it gets back close to fasting by around close to its original stage by around 2 hours with this given load of glucose then the insulin curve and this is what is really important to the topic at hand you'll notice that it has a unique shape to it where the insulin curve has two phases insulin has a first phase and a second phase in response to a carbohydrate load and this is all about what is in the beta cell at the moment the glucose hits the system versus what the beta cell makes next so the first one the first phase is a result as blood glucose goes up of the initial or the the insulin that is already on hand so the beta cells have some shelves filled with insulin that are ready to be shipped the moment the glucose comes in it activates a series of events the beta cell is ready to go they say ah I know what to do here I already got this insulin ready to go and it dumps out that little bit of insulin that it had prepackaged but then it continues to sample the blood the beta cell acting as a bit of a thermostat it's effect it's sensing the change the environment and it realizes okay this little bit wasn't enough so let's start ramping up production and now we start turning on all the Machinery to start producing new insulin from scratch and that is the second phase which is a little longer and it's a little more fine tuning all in an effort to make sure that we get that glucose level back under control now if we take this normal diet insulin sensitive so eating carbs but insulin sensitive and then view it with a new set of Curves we then can introduce the normal diet but insulin resistant group and in this case they're both going to be elevated in fact if anything my glucose curves a little too low I should have put that one up a little higher but at the very least it won't drop down to even near normal by the 2hour point and this is a separate phenomenon than what we see happening with the insulin which is still two phases but much much higher again if anything it would be even higher than how I'm indicating it how I'm showing it here so in this case the person is insulin resistant which is reflected in the higher insulin levels and they are glucose intolerant the glucose it's taking the body longer to clear the glucose got to speed up um all right now what if a person is insulin sensitive and they're on a ketogenic diet now in this case the glucose level will actually be more similar to the glucose curve that you saw in the insulin resistant person so that if you only looked at glucose what would you think You' think well this person's insulin resistant because that's a pattern that we see in someone with insulin resistance and yet if you look at the insulin it is a completely different curve unlike anyone you'd seen before which is what's different about this there's no first phase and let's just get to that for the sake of time so here the beta cell is so efficient that it looks at all of the insulin that it has pre-made that is ready to go and it starts to think mind you much more quickly than you would imagine and I'll touch on this in just a moment it starts to think I don't need all this insulin cluttering up the place it's basically me in my home where I throw anything out it has been a s of constant marital strife and I just live in constant fear thinking like I can't help myself to throw something away and I think oh is Cheryl going to ask for this oh my please don't ever ask for it and boy have I got some stories but I keep a very tidy home ladies it's all me all right so the beta cells are looking at all the insulin and thinking I don't need all this insulin around here it's just cluttering up the place we're not using it let's just get rid of it and so it literally breaks it down back into its component parts and so there's no first phase as you noted the first phase is gone there's just not enough there on hand and so everything is crank up the Machinery Red Alert we actually do have glucose coming in sorry guys I let you all go home from the insulin producing plant I need everyone to come back in immediately we got to start making insulin and thankfully the beta cells are still there the beta cells are more than capable of producing insulin they just didn't know they needed to but they get the job done ultimately it just took a little longer than expected so the loss of the first phase phase and a somewhat delayed second phase ends up contributing to a much higher than normal glucose curve causing glucose intolerance even though they're insulin sensitive and I have done these experiments in my lab with animals um George Cahill has done similar experiments in humans but if you take a ketogenic diet adhering animal or human and put them on a give them a spike of insulin it's no surprise to see that they are so insulin sensitive that in some instances you actually have to intervene because one bolus of insulin will work so well um that you have to almost rescue and give them some glucose but that is itself a reflection of a body that is very insulin sensitive so this is and mind you it doesn't even take a ketogenic diet to see this effect even if you fast we have known within the clinical realm for years that if a person fasts too long they'll get a false positive they'll fail their glucose tolerance test because the beta cells are so efficient that even again even after 12ish hours the you've started to lose some of your onhand insulin your first phase is going to be compromised so if you have to go in and do a glucose tolerance test you need to kind of play the system which I'll get to in just a sec now I've actually was asked earlier about the Randle cycle we've heard it mentioned here this is if you will the most succinct version of the Randle cycle which is that the cell only really wants wants to burn primarily one fuel at a time it can't be burning all the fuels at all the time well I mean it can but to varying degrees if insulin but it's insulin that determines generally which ver which fuel is being used so if insulin is up the the cell is burning glucose it is sugar burning in contrast if insulin is down the cell is fat burning if it has the potential which is pretty much everything but the red blood cells this is metabolic flexibility the ability to move between the two primary fuels there are other fuels but these are the main ones now metabolic inflexibility was a term first invoked by scientists at the University of Pittsburgh and they noted that even when people were fasted and they should have a low insulin level that they in that they were still burning glucose now I sort of swapped the animations I should have had the car burning go first and then the high insulin but these are people who are insulin resistant if insulin is persistently High the body will have a hard time moving back to fat burning because it's insulin that's dictating which fuel of the of of the two primary fuels is the one that's actually being burned now then with that in mind let me just introduce to you a different idea which is this concept of reverse metabolic flexibility my own term and I'm sure we could have thought of a better one collectively but this is the state of a low carb diet this is someone who has been eating um so few carbohydrates that they're insulin production is almost now chronically low and thus it's almost as if they are stuck in fat burning mode just like true metabolic inflexibility is the person being stuck in Sugar burning mode this is the exact opposite and so if the body is somewhat stuck in in fat burning mode if you load the system with some glucose it's no surprise that it's going to have a little hard a bit of a hard time switching right over to glucose because it has it's not accustomed to it it still can but if you load the system with glucose don't be surprised that it takes a little longer to clear it when the body's been primarily relying and indeed has adapted to burning fat this is what you get with a low carb diet so if you are on a low carb diet and you don't want to fail the oral glucose tolerance test you simply understand the demands of the pancreas and the beta cells and you say I know my beta cells aren't going to have a first phase of insulin secretion so I'm going to remind them how to do it which is going to be simply eating some carbs a few hours before the test truly if a person does this they will take what would have been a fail and they'll pass it with flying colors it will work every time and then you leave with a pat on the back and your clinician never needs to know that you're actually adhering to a diet that's going to kill you okay so thank you this is what we've covered you are now experts on these on answering these three questions what is insulin resistance where does it come from and how relevant is it in the context of a ketogenic diet I hope you feel like you have learned and we do have a little time for questions a minute and a half so I would love to get some if you got them really quick yeah yeah beard go clots in your blood well I I don't know that's a that's a good question I've never heard that before insulin does have an effect on on thrombogenesis and the clotting factors but which isn't to say that it's a an inherent evil but the degree to which exogenous insulin is going to influence I don't know yeah I'm sorry uh I I think one of the clinicians may know a little better I'd say somewhere in the order of a few dozen carbs if you're getting up to around 50 to 60 carbs within that handful of hours there was a paper that was just published about two years ago talking about how with the rise of focusing on hba1c clinicians have forgotten how to do a proper oral glucose tolerance test namely encouraging the person not to fast too long yes let's go to someone at the back yeah right there in the middle what happens if the child is insulin sensitive when they enter is not if they're insulin resistant when they become adolescent yeah yeah well one of two things can happen and it's primarily going to be a function of what they're eating they're either going to become insulin a little um no they will become more insulin resistant um but then it's how they come out of it I would say is the bigger question you cannot avoid being insulin resistant during adolescence whether it gets a little worse that would be unknown for me but the question is how do you come out because if you were insulin resistant before you started it's possible you'll stay insulin resistant when you come out which is important because the number of fat cells that child lays down during puberty is going to be the number they basically have for the next 40 years so puberty when my kids have gone through puberty one already done one going through it now one about to in a couple years I am extraordinarily mindful of what we're feeding them at home um never judgmental never mean never overly authoritative but we're the parents we decide what comes into the house we can't decide what they eat outside the house but when my kids start to go through puberty I'm incredibly mindful of we helping them create the body that they're going to have for better or worse or the body that that they're going to want to have and they're going to have to fight it or enjoy it throughout all of adulthood Professor one more very important question hey Canen yeah I know of no evidence that suggests that the case um where we have animals for example that have been on a ketogenic diet essentially their entire lives what would be the equivalent to 50 years of a human lifespan and this is rats and rats are substantially more metabolically accurate as a human model um and there's no evidence whatsoever they are immediately able to just go back to burning carbs and you give them a load of insulin and boy it will it will shoot them down so low they are so exquisitely sensitive to it yes let's say last question yeah right that's a good question so it's interesting to note you probably already know this that if you measure Ketone use in a pregnant mammal guess which one thing in her body is using more ketones than anything else the baby is the baby's using more ketones than the any other tissue in her body at that moment and so of course I'm not a clinician so I can say whatever the hell I want um cuz I'm not like it's the the freedom of just being an mic um I've not seen any evidence that suggests a ketogenic diet is going to be pathogenic for pregnancy of course I want to be a little careful because pregnancy is such a complicated metabolic um milu but I know of no evidence to suggest it's going to be overtly harmful um indeed I've known women who've done it and done it very well they just gain a little less weight but even still if you are measuring their insulin sensitivity during the course of the pregnancy it is worse and and that's it's supposed to Happ or it's better it's supposed to happen Okay hey thanks guys thanks so much this was great thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: KvGJykdJZUI (https://youtu.be/KvGJykdJZUI) ===

Jeremy mik merges Healthcare and uh software expertise to create an integrative Medicine approach through his company bianic please welcome Jeremy mik all right all right uh thanks everybody I really appreciate being invited to speak uh this is always fun for me you know most of my presentations are around the business but we get to dig into uh my personal health Journey um thanks for everybody that answered the poll by way just how many people know the term Functional Health or functional medicine okay good most people here awesome so this is my journey through the functional health approach um just quickly a little bit about me I am a biomedical nerd by training uh so I was signals and systems I did uh signal processing and machine learning and it's not this cheating machine learning of today this is the old school machine learning where I had to code the algorithms of mat lab can't just throw it into an AWS bucket um spent 20 years in the traditional Healthcare World mainly in electronic medical records tele monitoring I know I talked to someone who has a CPAP device but the ResMed connected devices initiative was something that I did as a uh a kind of transformational project there I'm now the CEO and co-founder bioc canic uh and I'm going to present a little bit about health intelligence and my vision for the future I have two TED talks on this so also if you want any of this information I'm in the back I can't hide from you so just come by and grab me um but really you know my goal is to become a catalyst for a new world of healthcare really driven in the power of Health intelligence uh and creating a Marketplace so consumers can take back control of their health it's always interesting when I put a shirtless picture up here not quite Darius from earlier um but this was me when I was an executive at ResMed um you know like most people I was active thought I was doing all the right things you know I was eating organic gluten-free working out all the time sotober all of those you know different types of T tips and tricks but the reality was my health was going in the wrong direction no matter what I did every objective marker was going in the wrong way um my trigger point for me was when I hit a peak weight of 240 lbs and I call it the worst day of my life but that was really the transformation and this is really my story about kind of going through that process um I did I always like to throw this in here CU I'm going to come back to it uh this is an MRI of my back uh from 2009 I know most people aren't Radiologists and probably can't read it the big important thing is that right there that is a extruding disc uh which is uh means that the the the actual lamina itself is sticking out in both directions uh and I was probably doing about eight years of cortisone injections including oblation therapy I was walking down the pathway for either um a spinal fusion or disc replacement and I'm going to come back to that so just remember that image so my journey started in 2013 when I started working with a Functional Health practitioner I won't disparage her because it was my wife uh she had just graduated from functional diagnostic nutrition school um you know it was really interesting at the time because back then you know we were running a lot of different Labs um and that's part of the functional health approach is really trying to understand the root cause more holistically around what's going on so there's extensive qualitative questionnaires you may run across this in your own experience things like a medical symptom questionnaire GI Maps a stool microbiome Dutch test is an advanced hormone test I have my genetic testing an organic acids a micronutrient and environmental toxicity but as an individual consumer okay it was great it was interesting but it wasn't really actionable for me and how do we actually synthesize and figure out what to do so just to give you another kind of rational drowning this is meant to be an eyar but this is the amount of stuff right so think about your patient portal your epic my chart where you have a file folder with a bunch of stuff that you never actually look at right so I had six Assessments in Excel I had multiple lab results in PDF my supplement recommendations were in a Word document I had a keto Mojo I also have a glucose meter I have my garment Fitness wearable and a sleep tracker so as a consumer how do you actually make sense and create an action plan out of this um and so really how do we actually think about synthesizing it so I'm going to walk you through the actual perspective of what we had to come to to figure out what was wrong for me so this is stool microbiome test uh I had H pylori has anybody ever heard of H pylori okay it's actually fairly common but it was an indication of some underlying gut disbiosis I had candida which is a yeast infection or yeast overgrowth I had micronutrient deficiencies you can see some of the key ones up there um I had a full thyroid pan done very uninteresting and I'm going to probably make some outlandish statements that people won't agree with but we'll come back to that uh this was my cortisol pattern um the red line is what it was so I was elevated cortisol throughout the day which kind of correlates with some of my sleep issues but this was the most important Insight so this was an advanced hormone test called a Dutch test I'm not sure if anybody's ever heard of it it's fairly uh well known in the industry now this was the most important to me for my own individual ual Health Journey again it's an ey chart happy to walk you through it but the red box here is the estrogen metabolites so if you remember that you know sexy shirtless picture of me I was not low testosterone I was estrogen dominant had I gone down the pathway for all of those those commercials that you he on the TV I think they were even on the Super Bowl this year you start slamming testosterone at me I create even more estrogen why is that well there was a couple different things so and if we look at this individual pathway the I guess it's hard to see if I can there we go this pathway right here that's called the for hydroxy pathway that is the cancer-causing pathway when you hear about uh estrogen-driven breast cancers or estrogen cancers that is the metabolite you're concerned about both my mom and my grandmother have had breast cancer my grandmother died from it my mom's doing fine thank you um but here's the issue I was still eating high carb great so needed to go low carb the problem is the carbs were driving the estrogen which was filling the tank but I don't empty the tank as well either so even going low carb I also needed to support the detoxification system and so what that ends up looking like is all of my estrogens are basically clogged up now why is that that's because I am actually I have the Snips for MTHFR how many people have heard of MTHFR right exactly so when we talk about methylation methylation is the process by which we're able to assist in the detoxification process so my individual health Journey was a combination of identifying both what was going on from you know a microbiome perspective but also from a hormonal pathway perspective and so really it took five years to get to the root of my issue so my get disbiosis is always there at at family history uh not breastfed as a kid chronic antibiotics my family pediatrician just said leave him on the pink stuff cuz he's always got ear infections and that was that that was the 80s right so my my gut floora is always messed up and so I'm sure many of you get hit up with all this oh feed your gut feed your microbiome there's probably nothing I can do about that I just have to be aware of it and understand that affects my immune system so I do get sicker than more often than my wife but the real issues that I had to focus in on for me was the cortisol disregulation and the elevated estrogen levels so the transformation was one how do we get that cortisol in Balance sleep right everybody knows the importance of sleep I had to rep prioritize my sleep so that I was getting that good sleep cycle regulation and then focus on estrogen detoxification so one going low carb but then also supporting it through methyl donor so things like creatine choline methylated B vitamins is now what really has led to that transer and so what does that look like from an overall perspective this is my withing weight data I told you we were going to geek out on data so this was that 240 day and then this was the transformation but there was still even more insights that we had to figure out so I started keto then I went to modifi carnivore it wasn't until here that we identified a number of key food sensitivities okay if you're going to start a ketogenic diet what are the first products that you're going to increase beef cow milk heavy cream I am reactive to it so you can imagine that I struggled to really get into ketosis and a ketogenic diet so it wasn't until later on did we actually understand really what those inflammatory foods were for me and then you can see it led to even a bigger transformation there so you know from a tracking and optimization standpoint this is what we do we kind of Bring It Together so here this is that four hydroxy pathway you can see this is where I started now I'm actually tracking and maintaining that over time but more importantly this was hscrp right everybody heard about C reactive protein just a general inflammation marker you can see now that's basically Z or 0.1 and then the question people challenge me nobody's reactive to beef unless you have Alpha gal well I've had repeated food sensitivity tests and I ran the alpha gal test and I am not Alpha gal I am just reactive to beef and it sucks but really what you know this comes down to is there's one Dependable rule about your health and that is it depends depends on your diet depends on your lifestyle depends on your genetics depends on what you do how you do it how you sleep and everything and that is the real challenge to kind of thinking about how do you do this as an individual and so for us we really focus on um bringing together this information so that both consumers and their practitioners can see this again an ey chart uh if you want to see it I'll show you in the back um but again this is how we start to bring all of those pieces of information together right no longer is it going to be acceptable for you to just have a 16-page PDF document with your hormonal Pathways how do your hormones relate to your gut health that relate to your genetics that relate to your blood markers that relate to your food sensitivities you can see my columns for gut health and food sensitivity are very long that's not normal but that's because of me and my own individual gut microbiome so what do we do so we built a technology platform really fun uh focusing on functional and integrated practitioners helping individuals get to the root like like I was with my wife um we bring together all the different wearables a lot of the partners in the room so chronometer keto Mojo been a longtime partner so our goal is to help bring this information to really unlock what we call Health intelligence and that's the idea I think um ancestral IED was talking about the same idea which is really the future of health is going to be AI driven it's impossible to expect a single individual to understand everything about everyone all the time the only way that we get there is by building the data sets right so creating longitudinal data I think Darius even said take accountability for your your own information track and Trend that information so for me using an at home blood spot test like a sciox test and being able to see those markers improving understanding how I'm changing those levers in my life and is it leading me to the outcomes that I want to desire as an individual so you know this is my information my contact I know most of you are not practitioners but you know feel free to stop by follow us um we do a lot of information we highlight a lot of uh individuals creating uh information around different approaches different thinking detoxification protocols for mold and mot toxins if you guys have ever had that issue um so we create a lot of value uh happy to give you more information about our system I've already talked to a number of you out there um we can get access to the labs to other devices as well for you um and then if you are interested in learning more about functional testing one of our partners is running a 5-day Summit um that's very inexpensive they're going to go through specialty lab hormone testing happy to provide that information to you it's functional diagnostic Nutri which is my wife C certification program so even if you're just interested it's a great way to get smarter about um all of that different stuff so with that I have 127 left if there's a question any other thoughts all right cool thank you but

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: FcT_e8OBmxo (https://youtu.be/FcT_e8OBmxo) ===

so this is pretty exciting I just now got in my inbox from Nick a preview video of what he's about to put out online in about an hour and it uh will be going over LDL and apob and it's an it's a topic he and I have had some uh spirited discussion on because it may be one of the few places where we have a slight Nuance difference so I told him that I would go ahead and record this uh both for uh his pleasure and for yours that's a true re action in real time as it happens to watching this video so let's take a look two things can be true at the same time depending on how you look at them in this video I'm going to delve into some of the nuances of Appo and all cause mortality focusing on two studies an attempt to make the Steelman case that Appo is relevant to all cause mortality and even where it's not it still might be more important than you think warning this video is going to be provocative but really it's just an appetizer for what's to come a 5H hourong podcast between me and Simon Hill the proof that after watching this video I think you're going to be provoked to listen to yes all 5 hours welcome to my channel stay curious first for a tiny bit of background I want to distinguish Appo from a related measure LDL cholesterol Appo is a lipoprotein and an apple b containing lipoprotein particles are the family of lipoprotein particles that include LDL particles and LDL cholesterol is the cholesterol content of LDL particles and LDL particles constitute the most common Appo containing lipoprotein particles in the bloodstream when it comes to cardiovascular risk assessment there's now a trend towards focusing on Appo b as opposed to ldlc since Appo B is a marker of LDL particle number which is better than LDL cholesterol which is crudder by way of analogy it's kind of like thinking about B Mi which is like LDL cholesterol versus body composition on dexas scan the body composition is more relevant to health the BMI is cruder but overall at a population scale they tend to run the same so ldlc and apple b tend to run together at a population scale where they diverge a little bit the apple b is better but for the sake of this video you can consider them more or less the same if it's easier for you again for the sake of this video there is controversy now getting back to our main point over the relationship between Appo and by extension LDL and all cause mortality or death by any cause with some people noting a j-shaped relationship between Appo and all cause mortality whereby very low levels of Appo might not necessarily be better because you see very low levels associate with higher all cause mortality but to appreciate whether this may or may not be a fair conclusion we have to ask another question what is the primary driver or primary predictor of all cause mortality and the answer is metabolic vulnerability so the next question what is metabolic vulnerability met abolic vulnerability is a marker of dysfunctional metabolism broadly inclusive of malnutrition inflammation and malnutrition inflammation complex syndrome malnutrition and inflammation tend to synergize negatively in the body and it's only very recently that we're starting to quantify metabolic vulnerability and a really Stellar paper that's Central to our discussion was published by osdol last year 2023 in the Lancet healthy longevity and it showed that metabolic morbility a multimarker mvx score dominated as a predictor of all cause mortality now as an aside the mvx score the metabolic vulnerability score was composed of gly a which is a systemic marker of inflammation small HDL particle count and citrate and three branch chain amino acids veine isol leucine and Lucine the specific say why these six markers combined were such an effective multimarker for metabolic vulnerability is beyond the scope of this discussion but just take it as these markers combined constitute a pattern a signature of dysfunctional lip metabolism and strikingly the mvx metabolic vulnerability score dominated Beyond not just cholesterol for predicting all cost mortality 5year all CA mortality but factors like age it was much stronger than even age at predicting all cause mortality and was generalizable across different groups The Young and the old male and female different races etc etc long story short metabolic vulnerability Quantified by this mvx score is a powerful predictor of all cause mortality I.E death now why is this so important well consider this if I drop a pebble into a still Lake you'll see a ripple right of course but what if I dropped the same Pebble into white water or a raging stormy sea do you see the Ripple well of course not it's lost in the Raging stormy sea this gets to the idea of a signal to noise ratio if metabolic vulnerability is a really great predictor of all cause mortality it's like the white water or the Raging Sea with respect to all cost mortality and if you think of Apple b as the pebble with respect to all mortality dropping the pebble in the white water you're not going to see a signal however that does not mean that one apple b isn't important in mortality or can't be important in mortality and two that Apple can't be important in other ways two points we'll hit on now focusing first on mortality in Appo I now want to turn to another paper published by Le at all in 2022 a year before the a boss paper characterizing the mvx score will get to why that's relevant in a minute and I want to jump straight to figures 5A and 5D and ju toose them because you'll see there's a very interesting contrast so focusing first on 5A what they're looking at here and this is the unadjusted model whereby they're looking at the association between Appo on the x axis whereby more to the right is a higher Appo and all cost mortality on the y- AIS where higher is more death higher all CA mortality and you see a j-shaped curve right whereby at very low levels of Appo you see more mortality and that might lead some to think oh lower apple b is worse for all cause mortality but wait what if you then account for what is a proxy for metabolic vulnerability they actually didn't use the mvx score because again it wasn't characterized for a year after this paper was published but they adjusted for nutritional factors and what you see when you do that is a transformation of the J curve into a line you see a new relationship whereby lower applebe continues to associate with lower all cause mortality lower death and this is really important if you think about it because if you think about an intervention that might change let's imagine intervention that just you know magically changes apple b as a singular change in individual that individual's metabolic vulnerability is going to be held constant so the line that secondary graph where you make the adjustment may be more important when considering therapy on an individual level that really shines a new light on this doesn't it another really important point I want to make is that the predictors of fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events are distinct for example the metabolic vulnerability score is really great at predicting fatal events but not good at predicting non-fatal events and of course non-fatal events are still very relevant to quality of life and health span if you have a non-fatal stroke and end up impaired is that relevant you didn't die but of course it's still relevant so just because a marker say apple isn't that strong at predicting all cause mortality and there might be something stronger like metabolic vulnerability doesn't mean that the Apple isn't important for other things including predicting non-fatal events which are still important to health health span and quality of life so those are really the main points I wanted to make in this video but for those who want to stick around the Nuance ninjas I want to make a couple adjunctive points extra Nuance okay so I really do want to stop here for a second and reflect on a few points that Nick is making the metabolic vulnerability index is I think something that's very interesting very exciting to look into uh obviously we're well acquainted to it because it's uh um something that um Dr William Cromwell is very interested in I appeared with Dr Cromwell in this recent episode with Simon in his podcast as well if you've got the extra three and a half hours to spare and the fact that it has a strong predictive um value towards all cause mortality doesn't surprise me at all particularly given its um recognition of metabolic Health as I definitely think does not get the level of attention that it deserves now where this gets interesting is in it's part of why I had to interject when Nick was saying that apob B may be better than LDL cholesterol within the context of uh predicting all cause mortality I think that that's that's a bit loaded and here's the reason why APLE B is the larger uh category of APLE containing lipoproteins which as he said in his true is the vast majority of which are LDL right so a containing lipoproteins in your bloodstream right now vast vast majority are LDL but importantly the remainder of that are non- LDL apob containing lipoproteins are remnants so hear me when I say this next part because it's extremely important and relates back to metabolic Health if you look just at LDL it's not that strong of a predictor apob is a stronger predictor than LDL towards both uh cardiovascular disease mortality and all cause mortality but if you sub ract LDL from apob and look just at remnants that has a much stronger Association by far particularly particle for particle towards both all cause mortality and cardiovascular disease mortality and the catch is that metab poor metabolic Health tends to increase both but particularly remnants remnants as a margin may not be as large as the pool of apob uh LDL but as apob vldl uh as uh KY microns Etc they tend to be a slight bit higher and that slight bit higher accounts for a much greater association with cardiovascular disease mortality now the key thing that I've been chatting about that's been kind of a primary debate is why do they have that Association I believe is extremely important is it because they independently Drive cardiovascular disease or is it the the metabolic Health the the poor metabolic Health environment that results in a higher snapshot of What You observe with greater remnants as being more relevant in that Association of cardiovascular disease and all cause mortality well obviously all roads to me lead back to studying lean mass hyperresponders this phenotype that's emerged that's Central to our research uh for which you not only have a high level of LDL you have a high level of apob but you have a low number of remnants and we've never really been able to get that combination together and that's why it's important to make that distinction now because something else that Nick gets into a little bit later before we get into this next section is that those studies like the one he was citing when when saying they've accounted for what they're saying is through statistical instruments they've sought to subtract the difference of the metabolic vulnerability or any number of other metabolic markers that may associate with cardiovascular disease such that they can feel confident that the association or or causal I should say impact of apob is what's left over and I think maybe the difference the key difference between myself and Dr Cromwell and perhaps myself and Nick norwitz is that I don't have a lot of confidence that that's been well accounted for I I think that the statistical instruments that attempt to do this things like sensitivity analyses they're very interesting and I think that they're great for hypothesis generating I don't I don't give them the level of confidence that you would have to um feel sure of causality even for the pebble that is the Ripple now when I say that I emphasize as I did on Simon's podcast as I've done in my recent presentations that's not me arguing for the opposite that's just me saying it hasn't met the standard that I would tend to have that's very high for being able to make a claim of causality and that's why we need to be able to study lean mass hyperresponders to better understand that so that's my note I want to get to the rest of Nick's video uh here point one is that the physiological patterns we observe in things like the mvx score inform metabolism it's not per se that you know the differences in Branch chain amino acids which are included in the mvx score are themselves protective or harmful but the composite the fingerprint the signature tells us something about the underlying metabolism and that's really important since metabolic health is so important to overall health what I think we really should be looking at is pattern things like the mvx score but also the lmhr lean mass hyperr Triad which constitutes the high LDL the high HDL and the low triglyceride pattern seen on some people who go low carb and my interest in that similar to the mvx score is not that I think the high HDL is protective or the low triglycerides are protective but the pattern together tells you something unique about the underlying physiy and that can be very interesting and informative to risk and outcomes and we need to study that more so point one physiological patterns signatures inform us about metabolism when we need to look at things in context now point two is that interventions come with side effects it was nice in this video and it's a useful exercise to think about the abstraction of what if I just snap my fingers and low aob be what would that do to my risk but in the real world you have real patients with comorbidities complex conditions and interventions are required to have an effect on a biomarker you can't really just snap your fingers and effect one biomarker you can't snap your fingers in lower apple b you need to do something a dietary intervention or take a medication and in individual patient cases these interventions can come with side effects or harms or unknown long-term consequences because we don't have enough long-term data to understand them so I think it's useful to make the Steelman argument for Apple lowering with respect to all cause mortality but also recognize humbly that there's a lot we don't know about the interventions required to exert Apple lowering and just consider that on an individual patient basis there may be more complexities in determining what might be prudent for an individual with respect to care and of course that should be the realm of patient physician discussions and don't get health information or health advice off social media YouTube Twitter Etc let me just second that as I've said a million times before please continue to work with your doctor and I think that um Nick's point is well taken and that any intervention uh comes with potential trade-offs make sure that you get as as educated as you can as to what those are and what they involve Etc that should go without saying now finally to wrap up I want to give a hat tip to two people one is Simon Hill the proof we actually just sat down for a 5H hour long podcast that was a tremendous discussion if you know a little bit more about me and Simon you might think that we will be quote adversarial but sitting down with him for 5 hours man I think this guy is going to be a lifelong friend we got on great and I think that there was so much Nuance we unpack in those 5 hours I really really hope that you listen to that episode if you liked this video you're going to like the Nuance that we get into in that particular episode so I'll link it below when it drops and two I want to give a hat tip to Professor William Cromwell Bill Cromwell who really turned me on to all the literature I just discuss with you and has really mentored me and taught me and what I'm trying to do now is translate the lessons I've got from him to you so hopefully I was able to do that to some extent but I'd really like to credit bill Cromwell for all I've learned on this topic Simon and bill hats off to you you're both great gentlemen and everyone have a lovely day so I'll second those hat tips um both of them were fantastic I loved uh coming on with each of them for that recent podcast appearance if you haven't seen it yet I'll link it down below and this video just is a heads up even though I'm recording it right before Nick is about to release it I'm going to give it just a little bit of a delay before I put it out because I'd like for his video to uh get a bit more Headway first uh before I actually put on my own uh YouTube channel but I thought this was a great video I thought Nick you did a a good job of putting it together it's interesting if there really is that a difference of opinion that we may have between each other even on a small magnitude of effect uh for apob as to whether we meet that level of confidence of independent causality for all cause mortality or even for nonmortality based events um but it's not a bad thing as always it's it's great I mean I I joke about this all the time but if you were to take my and Nick's Vin diagram for our opinions especially when it comes to lipids they're like so overlapped you have to like work hard to find the low margins where we might disagree so uh this has been a great video to review and uh I look forward to more by the way uh one more pitch just to Nick himself if you haven't yet you should check out his channel he's putting out videos like crazy almost two a week and he really puts a lot of great work into it so if you haven't um give him a like and a subscribe talk to you again soon

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: laNObReHk4w (https://youtu.be/laNObReHk4w) ===

all right here we go for the first Speaker Dr Richard Johnson I love when they're already applauding before I got a chance is a professor of medicine known for his extensive research on Sugar's impact on health and his work on natural on the natural sugar alternative aulos please welcome Dr Richard j Johnson hello thank you very much uh citizen scientists and uh it's so wonderful to be here I want to thank David for inviting me and uh I'm going to tell a story today about A Tale of Two Sugars uh oh it's not moving okay sorry all right so everyone knows that obesity and diabetes are epidemic they've been really has increased dramatically in the last 100 years and we have our classic associations of obesity with things like uh diabetes and high blood pressure cardiovascular disease but also there are newer associations of of the metabolic syndrome with with diseases like Alzheimer's like cancer like behavioral disorders and so the question you know is is could these all be related and how can we uh you know combat these this pool of diseases that are affecting us and a lot of people have argued that obesity is simply from eating too much and we are eating more than you than we were before and because we're uh inactive and we are more inactive than we were before so is a lot of people have suggested that it's bad habits but we all know that it's not so easy to lose weight by exercising and reducing our food intake and it doesn't work very effectively a lot of us fail so what can nature teach us so we one way to view this is to look at obesity as a condition that you know is used in nature as a survival tool and many animals will most animals will maintain their weight very tightly during most of the year and if they eat too much one day they eat less the next they keep their weight regulated but there is a set of animal types of animals that will purposely become obese for example in preparation for high iation or longdistance migration and so if we can understand how they be what triggers them to become obese we might actually learn a little bit about obesity for us as well so it turns out that when when studies are done of these animals that are hibernating that will hibernate it turns out that they are biologically activated to gain weight and they you know beginning like eight weeks before uh they hibernate uh a bear will suddenly become voraciously hungry will eat huge amounts of food and I will you know and will store fat it can gain as much as 10 pounds a day and it also becomes insulin resistant it gets fatty liver it gets uh elevated fats in its blood it gets all the features that we call metabolic syndrome and it turns out that it's biologically driven so uh and now we're learning more and more that obesity is really a biologically driven disease not so much a cultural disease and we eat more because we stay hungry and we uh we sit more because we have less energy so the question is what triggers it and our group uh has done a lot of work on this and we've identified fructose which is the sugar present in Fruit uh when it's eaten in excess can trigger this biologic switch and our work uh has shown that when you uh feed an animal fructose you stimulate hunger you stimulate thirst you stimulate food intake you stimulate the process of foraging you the animals become resistant to leptin they eat more they become resistant to insulin they become pre-diabetic this actually helps maintain glucose delivery to the brain they develop some inflammation uh which probably is there to help protect them from infection they raise their blood pressure which is to maintain their circulation and they actually shift away from using oxygen they reduce their oxygen uh consumption because they suppress their mitochondria which uses oxygen to produce energy so that may make you think that sugar or fructose and fruits are bad but actually fruits you know an individual fruit has very little uh fructose relative to like a soft drink and the major source of fructose today is from sugars added sugars like high fructose corn syrup and table sugar and natural fruits contain small amounts of fructose but they also contain a lot of wonderful things and I'm not telling you not to eat fruit in fact fruit is healthy but if you eat a lot of fruit you can overcome that like fruit juice for example and so what we've suggested is that when what was meant to be a survival mechanism to forge and store fat for when you when there's no food around is now driving a lot of our diseases and that all these this markedly RI marked rise and in conditions like Alzheimer's and so forth might all be related to one particular pathway so of course if it's fructose I know we all thought including me that that means you know it's mainly sugar that's the problem sugar and high fructose corn syrup but we've known now that actually the body can make fructose and it makes fructose only one way there's only one way it makes it it makes it from carbohydrates and when you eat sugary Foods they contain fructose but when you eat starchy foods like rice potato cereal chips french fries a lot of things that we like that produces glucose the glucose goes up in your blood after you eat that rise what we call postprandial glucose actually triggers not just insulin but also a conversion of glucose to fructose and that pathway is accelerated by things like salt alcohol uh and stress so how does the fructose work this is actually the important slide everybody thought that the way you become fat is you eat too many calories like shown on the left that increases your energy the ATP which is the active energy in our body and then when the active energy fills up like you fill up a gas tank the extra energy gets stored is fat so that's what everyone thought but the actual way it works is that when you eat fructose it drops the ATP in the cell so it drops your Active Energy creating an alarm signal to eat and while at the same time it blocks the the release of ATP from U metabolizing the fat so it creates a false impression that you're a low energy which triggers all these things to stimulate fat and so forth and if you biopsy someone uh you know the liver or the muscle of a person who's overweight the ATP levels are low in the tissues uh even though they're they have excess energy on board so this is a famous study from 2008 where if you inject glucose like into an animal this case it's injected into the brain glucose is a good guy and raises ATP and uh it makes you uh satisfies hunger Hunger goes down food intake goes down this is in in a mouse by the way and if you give fructose ATP levels fall you get hungry and it triggers a food intake so it's all about the energy in the cell and I'm not going to go through this slide but basically this pathway we've actually figured out how it works and it works on the mitochondria which are these little uh things in the cells that make ATP it suppresses the production of ATP and that keeps the ATP levels low and that triggers food intake and the principal driver is a substance called uric acid which is only produced from fructose of all the carbohydrates and fructose generates this uric acid to do this so you might look at this guy and you say hey is he a high energy individual you know is he like up and fired up with a lot of energy no he's fatigued and tired and he has all these conditions but if you actually measure the energy in him his total energy is high because although his ATP is low the active energy his stored energy is very high so his total energy is high and this is what fructose tries to do it tries to increase your energy uh by increasing your fat and decreasing your Active Energy so what can we do well I'm going to you know i' I've talked plenty of times on how this drives metabolic syndrome and diabetes and obesity I'm going to just hit a couple neurologic diseases and show you how this happens so let's look at Alzheimer's Alzheimer's disease is uh increasing significantly uh it was extraordinarily rare uh in before 1950 it's now like the seventh most common cause of death and some places it's increasing even more it's due to this uh atrophy of the brain with these amalo plaes uh and it's been a huge uh mission for Pharma to try to develop ways to block Alzheimer's they made like 20 different drugs to block the plaques and guess what it works like crap it doesn't work at all trying to inhibit the amalo plaqu was not really an effective way to prevent Alzheimer's so people said hey we should look at what happens early in Alzheimer's before the brain really shrivels up can we actually uh intervene earlier and so when they look early they find three phenomenon present in the brains of of early Alzheimer's there's insulin resistance which we know as a fructose effect systemically there's mitochondrial dysfunction and low ATP that's also a fructose effect there's inflammation that's a fructose effect could it be fructose that's involved in Alzheimer's well the risk factors for Alzheimer's are also the risk factors that are associated with metabolic syndrome eating high glycemic carbs eating uh sugar a high salt diet other Ultra processed foods are all associated with this and in fact studies like the N hannes have shown that the more sugar you eat the worse your memory is both short-term memory and long-term memory there's a direct link between sugar intake and memory not only that there's a direct link between sugar and how big your brain is when you eat a lot of sugar your brain starts to shrink that's been shown not only and the the main area that involves memory recent memory which is the most sensitive place that's hit is called the hippocampus and the more you drink sugar soft drinks It's associated with shrinkage of the hippocampus that's not good so there's a link between sugar intake and and dementia if you give fructose to uh to laboratory rats they have trouble getting through a maze and it happens within sever weeks and it takes like a month or two to recover when you stop the sugar sometimes they don't recover at all completely and and not only that when you look at that hippocampus or other areas of the brain involved in memory and cognition you can show that fructose induces insulin resistance in the brain which we know is the earliest finding in Alzheimer's it induces oxidative stress in the brain an early feature of Alzheimer's it reduces mitochondrial production of ATP that's a fructose specific effect we see it with fructose intake but that's what we see in early Alzheimer's and in fact if you keep giving fructose guess what happens after about 18 weeks they develop amalo plaques they developed this towel protein basically I can tell you that fructose is likely the cause of Alzheimer's and we published this recently and it's uh anyway uh so here's a very interesting thing a paper just came out showing that you can block dementia in an in diabetic Animals by blocking fructose metabolism and so on the top row here the DB I should label that DB DB means diabetes so a diabetic Mouse has high fructose levels in the brain has a high uh levels of the transporter for fructose has a high level of the fructose enzyme that drives the low ATP and has a low ATP that's that you know is low ATP they they have cognition problems now if you block that if you inject a treat an anti-sense to block that fructokinase in the brain suddenly the animals improve dramatically and they can they learn how to uh go through a water maze which they couldn't do before so the diabetic animal takes a long time to get through the maze but the treated diabetic animal goes back to normal so you can reverse early dementia by blocking fructose metabolism and and also you can do this trick where you on the water maze you put these little platforms where they have to get to and if you move a platform uh if you uh the animals are in trouble if they're diabetic and they developing Demetra they can't find it but if you reverse that fructose you can reverse it they can find the plat form so what about humans well this is a study in humans Alzheimer's patients have sixfold higher fructose levels in their brain they have low ATP I can tell you that this is the cause of Alzheimer's not only that how do they get it well when you eat sugar you do get fructose levels going up in the brain but you know what's the major way to raise fructose in the brain carbs high glycemic carbs french fries potatoes because that makes the brain produce fructose this is a study in humans from Yale within 45 minutes of starting of putting a person raising their blood glucose they're making fructose in the brain and that's a lot of fructose it's actually the Blue Line uh go and and that's the increase from zero that's actually turns out to be a lot uric acid is how fructose works this is a big huge study 3 75 metabolites they call it a metabolomic study only one of them out of 375 metabolites there was one that was a dramatic increased risk for uh for uh dementia and you know what it was uric acid urate is another word for uric acid it's it's not on the the normal line it's so high uh and there's other studies that have shown this and we know that you know uric acid in the brain blocks mitochondrial ATP and uh can trigger uh low energy levels in the brain oh here's another study again this one looked at uh 400 I'm sorry 52 studies 45 risk factors only one linked with increased risk for dementia elevated uric acid and they did it through a mandalian thing so they looked at the genetics of it so if you genetically have a high uric acid it's not good so what we think is that processed foods junk Foods uh Tri that they don't just drive obesity they drive fructose production in the brain generate uric acid suppressed causes neuroinflammation insulin resistance in the brain knocks down ATP causes Alzheimer's it's reverse and it if you hit it early you can probably reverse it keto diets low glycemic diets are the way to go you guys are all here for a good reason you all all believe in keto diets I think and it they are really a great way to prevent Alzheimer's so why would why would high glycemic carbs cause Alzheimer's the reason is because high glycemic carbs trigger fructose production fructose triggers foraging foraging is where you go looking for food it's actually it's a wonderful quality to be because you have to be you have to be brave adventurous excitement seeking you have to go into areas where no one's been you have to be like an adventurer you have to be brave you have to be uh able to assess the world quickly you have to can't deliberate it's actually a successful Behavior it allows you to find food more easily but how do you do that the way you do it is you have to turn on the visual cues so you can see the food see that little red dot that's when you give fructose to a human the visual cues to pick out the cake and the food is immediate it's immediate you go oh my God where's the food the blood flow when you give glucose the first few minutes glucose takes 45 minutes to convert to fructose so if you give a five 15minute test you're actually looking at what glucose does and what frose do us when you give glucose blood supply goes up to the brain ATP goes up for the first few minutes till it converts to fructose but if you give fructose blood flow goes down to the brain it goes down in the areas of self-control they don't want you to have self-control they want you to be able to go into the lion's den they want don't want you to have vivid memory of how dangerous it is so they fructose lowers the blood flow to the hippocampus you know this is how it works it's supposed to be a good thing it is good in some respects if you raise uric acid in the animal the same thing you take a mouse you raise this uric acid it becomes exploratory it's it gets hyperactive it starts looking around for things it could goes it actually initially goes farther distances it forages but when it's not foraging it will rest Like a Rock to conserve its energy and studies in humans also have linked huric acid with excitement seing seeking and impulsivity so that's why that happened but you know what this also tells us what's causing behavioral disorders you probably know that ADHD attention deficit disorder and bipolar disease are increasing dramatically they've increased in parallel with sugar intake they uh linked with sugar intake both bipolar disease and also with high glycemic carbs recently it's been shown that ADHD is a type of foraging Behavior they did this one group just published a study showing that if you have ADHD and they test you for being able to find like berries in an online game system you will find more berries than the normal person you're going to be more successful at finding the food you're going to be more successful at forging and going to different places so you won't stay at one place long very long when it's when it starts being depleted you the first one to leave this is what this study shows think about it having ADHD actually is a is a CH you're a champion because you you can you actually can forge this was a successful Behavior the trouble is when you're doing it all the time it starts to decrease the blood supply and drops the energy in the brain and and people like with bipolar disease they tend to be insulin resistant they heat eat high carbs they have high uric acid levels and look at this they have very high fructose levels in their brain this is human studies it correlates directly with an hospitalization rate bipolar disease is due to intracerebral fructose production that lowers ATP and it was meant to be a good thing but when it's overactive it's bad so what are our Solutions well these keto diets are fantastic this is a paper from Georgia edes uh Chris Palmer has done similar work you put people on a low carb diet you can improve people you can improve their behavior you can reduce their risk for dementia it isn't just obesity some people like to get OIC to lose weight you get aifi it's good look at the dramatic weight loss it's expensive a lot of side effects and it recurs there must be better Solutions so as a I have to confess that my you know I got so in i' I've been studying fructose for 25 years and I was approached by uh people uh RX sugar is a company that markets uh allulose which is a sugar that looks like fructose but it's just one slight change and I got interested in it because it's does not activate the switch it does not drop the energy and so I joined the company and I'm halftime a professor and halftime with the company so that's my disclosure but I did it because I believe that this is actually a great potential solution so what the heck is allulose it's a natural sugar it's uh you know found in wheat and other things it's low calorie it's low glycemic it's sweet uh everyone's eating some we just not eating enough and what happens is uh when you eat allulose uh it gets absorbed and then not metabolized and then excreted through the urine uh and a little bit gets excreted through the gut and um it does not activate this bicarb switch I mean this fructose switch it does not activate this survival fit and it has some added benefits and those added benefits includes that it reduces the glucose response this is the only low calorie sugar that actually reduces the rise in glucose after a meal it actually stimulates this thing called glip one which is what OIC does but it only do it's a natural stimulant and it stimulates only during uh for a couple hours after you eat so you get this little boost that keeps the glucose levels down uh so it will reduce the amount of fructose produced uh it blocks fructose absorption as well because it competes with the fructose transporter uh and it has a lot of other benefits and so uh if you give it to animals you can see that it stimulates glip one this is the same thing that uh OIC does or OIC is a glip one Agonist that is present elevated all the time but uh and if you give it to humans you get a really whopping glip one response it suppresses food intake because of that so if you take allulose like a chocolate bar you can actually reduce your your stimulate some satiety and it can block weight gain this is in animals this mice they get less fat you can improve their diabetes it looks it's really good uh you know and it uh can reduce body weight this is a human study it doesn't have the big effect that that um you know that OIC does but it you know we've had some people uh lose you know 5050 pounds but it you know not everyone does that uh it blocks if you give it with sugar it blocks the rise like in table sugar this is sucrose or table sugar this is human studies it really blocks that rise in glucose and remember that's what triggers the fructose production in the brain and it affects uh it's been shown to help diabetics so if you have type 2 diabetes and you're taking it it will help keep that Sugar following a meal tight more tight within the range that you want it this was a study that was done in in Egypt actually uh it blocks leaky gut my work shows that leaky gut is the cause of uh anaphylactic uh you know food allergies to peanuts and so forth because you have to get those peanut antigens across the gut into the blood um it's important for the origin of celiac disease where you get the gluten across the gut if you if you can block a leaky gut you're going to block the development of celiac disease and Crohn's disease is also linked with sugar intake and may involve similar Pathways it you know it improves exercise endurance if your mouse I don't know about a human okay but it does if you're if your mous it increases glycogen in the muscle which leads to a little bit better performance we need to do studies in humans okay but bottom line is um you know oh here's a study where it improved cognition so the way again remember uh you the problem with with cognition is if you make fructose in the brain and it's made by a particular cell called the microa uh and that cell has the fructose transporter so if allulose can block that lower U it also probably lowers uric acid and these are benefits that can lead to improved outcomes in ability to uh to to to to think logically and so forth and if you give you know fructose or glucose you get all these changes in in blood flow to the brain with allulose you don't so so I've talked to you about The Tale of Two Sugars The Bad and The Good fructose is the bad it blocks the mitochondria and it lowers ATP and that is the mechanism M that seems to drive behavioral disorders it's the mechanism driving dementia and it's also uh driving all these other things but it was meant to be good transiently dropping it makes you eat more it helps you store fat so you can you know survive winter but we're not hibernating we're just continuing to eat so this is why it's bad uh Chris Palmer is I want to say that he is a fantastic guy we're going to be collaborating with him uh to look at some of these effects on behavior and as well as uh you know on dementia and alilo seems to be a good sugar we need to know more about it I'm just learning more about it but it does look like a great fructose substitute it's low calorie it's sweet it's metabolically healthy it stimulates glyp one it lowers uric acid at least we believe it does we're going to do more studies on that it promote weight loss Etc so thank you very much I'll can take questions for a [Applause] minute we have a little bit of time for questions if somebody wants to ask a question real quick go ahead add add yeah so so sugar is addicting to many many uh you can make an animal addicted to Sugar we've done it uh and is similar to alcohol we can make an animal addicted to alcohol not all animals get addicted to alcohol not all animals get addicted to Sugar but most do we've actually identified that this fructose enzyme is is what drives addiction it's not taste we've been able to you can make an addicted mouse that can't taste sugar and it will be addicted to Sugar but if you block the fructose metabolism keep the ATP levels normal they don't get addiction we think addiction is from the ATP you know makes you feel like your energy is low and you got to eat more and so we think that that's the mechanism we've actually you know published it I have a grant from the NIH $6 million Grant because when we block fructose metabolism we block alcoholism and so the alcohol Institute at the NIH funded us to develop a fructose inhibitor to block alcoholism yes well maybe yeah one more one more question I have and sacin which is the one that was published in nature that does induce insulin resistance through a gut microbiome pathway interestingly we find very subtle evidence for the others uh and they do not cause obesity but a lot of the artificial sugars they don't have benefits they they're more neutral or they could be negative because you know it is true if you keep eating sweets that seems to the the taste buds does make you want to continue to eat sweets but the addiction is actually not driven driven by taste it's driven by uh by the metabolism no I would love to I I really I think it should be done we're gonna have to wrap it here thank you so much Dr Johnson

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: U2VPHMbjTqA (https://youtu.be/U2VPHMbjTqA) ===

Dr Carlos baros integrates metabolic and functional principles in Psychiatry leads A tes psychiatric practice and promotes medic uh medication independence with diet interventions please welcome Dr Carlos baras good morning everybody good morning everybody uh so uh thanks Dave it's um for child psychiatry specifically uh good morning everybody so I've been doing this for about 20 plus years specializing in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry utilizing telepsychiatry covering California many other states uh and integrating those principles of um metabolic and functional methodologies to bring people into medication Independence wherever I can um I'm committed to this uh by knowledge sharing and to make it an aim to add Clarity and insight so that all of my colleagues and families taking care of uh uh children and Adolescence can have the common goal and so that we can all learn together how to move this thing forward and this is why we're here today um so for me everything started uh in 2000 in the middle of my anesthesiology residency I was struck with a throat cancer diagnosis and um my ENT said we can't do surgery because otherwise you'll never be able to swallow again we have to do radiation therapy um I was determined not to let that shorten my life so um five months later I was battling with muscle fatigue and um flu like symptoms just you know thyroid related stuff cu the radiation was hitting my neck and I had to go on a medical leave um but then um some health issues started increasing blood pressure BMI uh macular edema in my eye I was risking retinal detachment blindness um so somehow I found Dr Christopher Nai renowned opthalmologist articles on the connection between seed oils and macular degeneration 2017 oh by the way I was doing a vegan diet at that point uh which is very uh kind of a dirty process like if I think about it um but anyway uh 2017 did a lot better keto diet started oops yes so keto keto diet started uh did a couple of other things whm Hof breathing and kettle bell training and all that brought my BMI macular Dima was gone um and then last Thanksgiving I was watching some YouTube videos on Carnivore diet with Dr Anthony chaffy uh and so I went all carnivore since then lost 20 pounds and I'm at a 133% body fat percentage thank you yeah uh and so those are my numbers right there um you know I really look at the triglyceride HDL ratio more than anything else I think LDL is kind of like bunk um and um I'm optimistic about really extrapolating what I learned about myself towards my patients but we have some challenges ahead you know pediatric obesity is clearly on the rise 1.5% increase per year for the past 30 years or so it's tripled in children sorry in adolescence doubled in children over that time uh and pediatric hypertension follows closely so in a room of 30 kids it would be rare to find hypertension 20 years ago but now it's one has hypertension three will closely follow and uh as a turns out if you're overweight 75% chance you will be hypertensive if you're obese that jumps all the way to 205% so um the American Academy of Pediatrics has stly uh decided that how they're going to address hypertension is to lower the BMI with uh the DASH diet exercise so like lifestyle recommendations but if the above fail let's go ahead and jump into anti hypertensive medication management really okay I don't think so and just what is the DASH diet well after 20 years it's had a 1% adherence rate 55 to 60% grams of carbs daily are recommended so you're telling me that for a kid with BMI of that's high 400 gram of carbs a day sounds ridiculous it is so uh there's more on the front of medication so in order to lower LDL and I just told you that LDL is kind of a bunk connection with plaque formation if they meet a certain criteria there just start satins and um exactly I'll just skip over that and go to the next thing but get this so OIC with 55 lawsuits for gut blockage comes into the picture it's approved for kids 12 and older for in in the case where it's necessary to use it so this really poses a kind of ethical dilemma kids have no rights of their own and we know that there's limited safety data on Olympic there's no long-term risk assessed let's switch gears over to the psychiatric side ADH Trends are going going up you notice how this kind of goes in parallel with obesity and hypertension right anxiety and depression depression always follows anxiety same thing but the Whopper of them all is autism you could say that autism is a hyper response kind of condition Paradigm hyper response right that's kind of a ongoing um concept that we're kind of thinking about lately 400% increase in the last 20 years what the heck does that one in 36 kids will be born with Autism so the ketogenic diet emerges is a really nice treatment that's been effective in small studies anecdotal reports are very numerous but we have to do much more regarding robust research studies to bring it into the mainstream and to really knock off medication management which does not really work that well you're trying trying to change different you know Chase different targets with Meandering bullets and it doesn't work very well um so we have some dignitaries here who have had really great success with going into keto Carnival and things like that I just try throw this in there because there's a um one case that really sticks out that is a uh woman from Canada who was 2 years old when she acquired juvenile itis went on emell a immunosuppressive agent was the first kid to do so in Canada at 20 years old after having two Hip surgeries at 17 at 20 went on to do the carnivore diet and everything reversed which is a really pressure test of her courage and also of what the carnivore diet can do so these are all types of patients that I see in my practice these are the kinds of different interventions that we do holistically but the common denominator in all this is nutrition without nutrition we really don't have a good holistic treatment plan and what we do in our practice is we really look at everything we look at Social developmental history psychiatric genetic history and all those things and we um embed the questions in such a way that we're we're extracting information about holistic components like nutrition exercise sleep and how does that translate into physical health to allow mental Wellness to happen you can't have one without the other so these are some of the low Tech techniques that we use uh Diaries supplement um spreadsheets uh sleep Diaries and things like that and we uh put them into um uh we we use them to measure holistic psychiatric progress uh but we have to be willing to really conceptualize as is always like a pathway that leads into uh the most effective way that you can get to mental health because you again like I said you can't have one without the other so just wanted to give you uh two different cases that are on opposite ends to illustrate the kind of challenges that we have and the kind of um winds that we have one case Cassie 10 years old battling with mood swings anxiety and some health challenges as you can see by those labs over there this is kind of reminiscent of what I used to have uh the parents have a daunting family history with mental health issues the mom is having knee surgery coming up and the father just had his second hip surgery anyway I get a text from Los Angeles from uh Universal Studios showing Cassie eating ice cream which felt like a hollow Victory to me and um uh you know uh few days later they tell me that they're seeking out a second opinion you know I just bring that up because uh I think we should remember that families are dealing with a lot of um noise and misin information which adds to their reluctance and we really have to fight back the other case Aubrey a nonbinary identifying sophomore in high school changes her life by going into the crew uh team at their high school so the twist is that even though I've diagnosed her with bipolar disorder she doesn't have a genetic psychiatric history in her family for it she knows of her IVF conception and so that diagnosis is kind of you know not very solid but we have to go with something because there symptoms were fitting in remember what Dr uh the professor Dr Johnson had said before uh that there's a lot of um effects from the foods that we eat on how we present so mood swings and things like that but um The Twist in all this is that um she um was doing really well with rowing but she was hindered by what she was eating she listened to her coach and she did a one gr of protein per uh pound of uh body weight kind of protein intrusion to knock away all the carbohydrates and she really started doing well mood anxiety improved and the second twist in all this is that she came up to me courageously and asked me if I could take her off of her mood stabilizing agent Abilify which it was me that had to comply with her because she did everything she was supposed to and she hasn't needed medications again I guess that was it thank you all for having me it was a pleasure uh and uh let uh our work on the system to really fight back on these um issues and forces that are against us really yes

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: hulwloOl7ws (https://youtu.be/hulwloOl7ws) ===

Amro Hearn is a researcher with extensive experience in lowb diets known for her contributions to the carnivore diet and her advocacy for privacy enhancing Technologies please welcome Amro Hearn hello I'm Amber and I am deeply honored to be sharing the stage with so many wonderful people including people who are renowned researchers and there's no mystery as to why they're here but why am I here um people who know me probably think I'm going to go into some existential rant but that's not what's happening um when Dave invited me I hesitated because I knew what he was asking of me and I wasn't sure I was going to be able to do it because in order to talk about how it's possible that I could make so many contributions to a field in which I'm an outsider that means I have to talk about my contributions and uh so Dave gave me um or required me to do something that I hadn't given myself permission to do which is to talk frankly about some of my accomplishments and so I thank him for that uh but I want you to know that that's this is hard for me okay so one thing about me is that I've always had a hard time doing things the regular way and I I did always loved school but I only participated when I felt like it and when I was 16 I got interested in other things and left home and went to Montreal to hang out with my friends I was never really intellectually challenged until a couple years later when I went to the University of waterl to study math I had been at to a a special program for bright hardcore math enthusiasts and I'm embarrassed to say that I flunked out in the first semester I I just didn't know how to learn in that environment I think I didn't know how to learn actively at all and another contributing factor was that I had had my first depressive episode and was on anti-depressants um so I took a little while to Li my wounds and try to figure out what it was I really wanted and then I finally jumped back into math again and when I jumped in I jumped in with a purpose and I immediately started working with one of my professors and we published um some work on coding theory in theoretical computer science um two papers that I worked on and I also worked with my psychology Professor Dr Bruce I wasn't a psych ology major but he could tell that I was really engaged and invited me to work with him and we also did two papers and this work was done in 1999 to 2002 even though the the dates reflect the long time it used to take to get things published um but I really think that one of the contributing factors to being able to do all that was that I had started a low carb diet a couple years before it was in 1997 that I started that and then soon after that I finally graduated from waterl not with a math degree but I had cobbled together some of the um electives that i' had taken and added a bit to that and got a Russian degree which wasn't really what I wanted to pursue further but it felt really great to actually finish something for the first time and so the low carb diet I really think was a great contributor to helping me get my together even though I had only really started it um in order to lose weight and so all the time that I was doing these things I was doing math and I had eventually uh started a family but I was also really deeply um involved in trying to figure out what was going on with the low carb diet and so in addition to reading all the diet books that were written for Lay people in the general public like um Dr Atkins and Dr eids and Ron Rosedale and ly McDonald I was also going back into the literature and reading um some of the earlier work from you know from kahill and Owen and from McGary and Foster and kwick and pan and all kinds of stuff I was obsessed um so I found myself drawing a complete blank later in 2008 when I had regained a lot of weight even even though I was doing everything by the book and I could tell you any kind of geeky answer about what was going on with a ketogenic diet but I couldn't solve my own weight problem which is ironically I'm in a kind of similar position now and I'm looking forward to my next insights but what happened for me at that time was that I found this small group of weird extremists who are calling themselves zero carbers even though the reason that their diet was so low and carb was because not because they were trying to minimize carbs per se but they weren't eating any plants and so all they were doing was prioritizing eating fatty meat to satiation and nothing else that's pretty much all there was to it um they had made their own Forum because back at the time they had been on Jimmy Moore's forum and what they were doing he thought was too edgy and maybe dangerous and he didn't want to condone it or be associated with it and so they had gone and made their own forum and I want you to think about that for a minute because if we end up in a world where we're not allowed to talk about things that people consider dangerous then you know where would I be it's really important that we can talk so back then and this was the late 2000s we were already talking about any kind of contentious issue that you might hear people talking about today so should we be worrying about eating too much fat should we worry about eating too much protein um should we be counting our calories actually we talked a lot about the problems of undereating at that time and there were people doing hyp hypercaloric experiments eating 4,000 5,000 6,000 calories a day and still um many times having weight loss we talked about whether or not we should be U making sure that we eat organs the answer to that was a definitive no for good reasons um or whether people should be eating just like a carnivore diet but adding fruit to it so you know if someone comes along 10 years later and says oh I've got this great upgrade to the carnivore diet you should be doing it just like that but eating lower fat or adding fruit um just understand that that's not new and that the reason that they are thinking that this is a new idea is because they haven't been reading what's been going on for the past 20 or so years um and for me the carnivore diet changed everything it was like when I first found the low carb diet except better because in this round not only did I lose the weight that was troubling me but it put a lifelong mood disorder into complete remission but it did have a problem compared to the low carb diet because there was no solid scientific basis for it I mean we had lore and we had pioneers and we even had some uh scientific study on safety because of Stephenson who had done stuff in the 20s um so we had all that but there was no no literature that would suggest that a low carb diet that had no vegetables in it would have any reason to be better for anybody than low carb diet with vegetables in it and of course a lot of people thought that that would be strictly better and that it might be bad not to have them and so for me this was problematic because I was very scientific minded and I didn't want to be seen as advocating for something just based on my own personal anecdote because that didn't feel very good to me um so I couldn't rest until I could find some kind of scientific answer to the strange question of why it should be the case that I was feeling better than I had in my life without eating vegetables um even though that seemed to be obviously wrong and meanwhile lots of other people were finding benefits too so I did talk about it I talked about it on that Forum I talked about it in this little um group called Paleo hacks notice by the way that I had to pull up this page from the internet archive because it doesn't exist exist anymore um you can see by my reputation count there that I spent hours and hours writing questions and writing answers for this one little forum and it's all gone like it doesn't exist you can't find it um and so again I I just want you to think about that if you are writing these great threads for say Twitter or God forbid Facebook and um that's not your and you have no control over whether someone's going to be able to find that or whether it's still going to be around in 10 years and that's a real problem so in 2012 I decided I was going to have my own website so that I could really be writing in a place that I could control it and it had taken me three years to really own up to what I was doing and and put it under my own name and that strong way and not just on these forums um because I really didn't want to sound crazy and I didn't want it to ruin my reputation for having a scientific mind and I I made this website to be separate from another website that I had made where I was writing about science on the ketogenic diet and I was calling it carnivorous which was a break from the zerocarb verbiage that people were calling it before I was not the only person to use us that word and also later I shortened it to carnivore there was uh Ash Simmons who had a website called carnivore's Creed um so that was different and then it took another four years before I started speaking about it in public these two fine dudes invited me on their podcast which was very popular at the time and they asked me about my experiences on Carnivore and asked me to talk about uh some research I had done and presented at The ancestral Health Symposium which is also really important for me and by the next year I became the first person who was talking on the keto conference circuit about the carnivore diet this new trend I talked on at Jimmy Moore's low carb cruise and then again at keto Fest the from the two keto dudes and then at ketocon in September it was a really exciting oops a really exciting time for me because um everybody was really enthusiastic the organizers were supportive and the audience was excited and what I did in that talk was I I took all the information that I was learning from the anecdotes of the people in those forums and the the Pioneers from Stephenson and the bear and connecting it to research that I was doing in behavior and phys biology and in evolution and human adaptations and plant biology and literature around anti-nutrients and so all of this was work that other people had done but the the story that I built and the connections that I made were all original work and that was really influential uh there I still meet people even like recently who tell me that they were at one of those talks and that it really changed their lives and that's a great blessing um and it was highly replicated too um I can remember in the subsequent years sitting in talks where I was in the audience and someone who is more influential than me was giving a talk about the carnivore diet and it was 50% or more the same content the same structure the same ideas as what how I had conceptualized it in this talk that summer um so the following year I went to every keto conference that I could find that I could get to went to uh low carb San Diego and West Palm Beach and I went to Breen Ridge and I went to keto Fest and I noticed this trend that after every speaker at least one person would come up to the Q&A and ask a question about the carnivore diet and for the most part the speakers didn't really know what it was and didn't know how to answer and they they might you know based on their expertise give the best answer that they could but I could tell that something more was needed and so I decided it was time to put together my own conference that was specifically targeted to the carnivore diet as anyone here was there it was epic right really fun um and the reason that I'm I'm telling you all this is because I think it's just not very widely known how much contribution I made to that whole trajectory and movement because um you know I'm not claiming that I came up with the diet obviously I learned it from other people before me um but I think that I did have a lot of influence on even the name and the and how that came into the popular Consciousness it's just that I I lost the race on writing the first book um not for lack of encouragement um and I was never invited on Joe Rogan and um and as all this was happening I actually started to feel like I was losing my credibility and I felt like people were just seeing me as a onetick pony a onetick carnivore Pony and people wanted to hear about the story about my bipolar disorder which is an amazing story and I understand why they wanted to hear about it but there was so much else that I felt like I had to offer than just this testimonial and I actually hit a low point when um one of the first carnivore diet books that came out the authors um wrote to me and they didn't ask me for um editing advice or or a forward or anything that would really give me acknowledgement Bast if I wanted to write a testimonial on how well their diet worked and I just it I think to this day they don't realize how hurtful that was to me but I didn't lose heart because a lot of people were actually really really kind to me and really encouraging and gave me many opportunities so I was talking about all kinds of different things on the Forefront I think of ketogenic diets like this uh idea about what's going on with uh ketosis in the Inuit and what's the complex relationship between uric acid and ketosis and um should people who are on a carnivore diet worry about whether they're harming their longevity because of the mour hit and so a lot of people were inviting me to talk about stuff and um I had a lot of wonderful experiences and I was able through that to build a reputation that eventually got me invited to even collaborate on scientific papers which was really exciting to me so I I lost the race on the carnivore book but I got to write the first carnivore diet paper since 1930 um thank you you and ended up doing lots of collaboration with people that I have admired for a lot of my adult life and so I'm I'm really Beyond thrilled with the opportunities that I've been extended so I'm going to try to explain what I think about how I was able to do that um one thing is that science requires a delicate blend of arrogance and humility and I've really uh nurtured both of those in myself U arrogance you absolutely need because you have to believe that even though lots of smart people may have dedicated their entire lives to something and you think something different from them that your idea might still have Merit and [Laughter] and you have to give yourself permission too that was hard for me the I remember the week that I gave myself permission it was the same week that I met Dave Feldman we were at low carb Veil and um talk about arrogance I I started to realizing that there were several people who were speaking on stage who were saying things that I thought oh they didn't read such and such and I thought well maybe actually I could give a presentation and that it would be useful and would teach other people things and it had never occurred to me before because I thought to be on stage as a speaker you had to be as somebody and and I just didn't hadn't given myself that personhood before and of course you also have to have humility because you have to recognize that yeah you too could be making a mistake you could be clinging to some idea that's your pet idea and horror of Horrors you could actually be biased um so the way I deal with that is you you have to earn trust through accountability so you have to tell people where and how you got your ideas cuz nothing comes from nowhere and don't ask them to take you on Authority you have to um when you get serious criticism and I don't just mean like trolls who are saying mean things but serious criticism take it seriously and own up to your mistakes like loudly and say yeah I made a mistake and and rethink everything that you need to rethink when that happens I think that you shouldn't engage in zero some games that's a game where your success is dependent on other people's failure so like competitions of status even to some extent Academia can be that way and for goodness sake don't study logic so that you can win arguments on Twitter because that's another winning arguments on Twitter is usually just silencing people it's not furthering the discussion study logic but study it so that you can recognize your own mistakes and be a better thinker and don't make presentations so you can get clicks and drive the funnel like make a presentation because you think you have something interesting to say so instead of playing Zero Sum games where you're trying to enhance your reputation at the expense of others seek out other people who are intelligent and high integrity and play long-term collaborative games because those people are out there and they're looking for you so what's wrong with this credentialism thing there are good things about credentials it's really important to rely on other people for expertise because we are long past the time if it ever even really existed where one person could learn the sum total of what we know as humans we have to rely on each other but if you only listen to people who have a certain degree then you're cutting out everybody else who didn't have the money or had to focus on family or started out in a different career and then didn't have six years to invest in jumping through the Hoops to get those new credentials so University is actually a wonderful place or it can be people congregate there to hold themselves to a high standard there's immense mentorship I would go back to University in a heartbeat really um but it's also not some kind of Silver Bullet it doesn't guarantee that you will not be fallible or human or make mistakes and it's not the only way to learn so she she puzzled and puzzled to till her Puzzler was horse maybe learning she thought doesn't come from a course maybe learning perhaps has a different Source you thought you were going to get through a presentation of Amber without some poetry and last you should be writing to learn it doesn't literally have to be writing you can be talking or whatever but if you've ever heard the idea that you don't really understand an idea if you can explain it to others the really is some truth to that this is a a major reason why I flunked out in that first year at University because I sat there in the class and I watched the professor write the proof and I thought yeah that makes sense that makes sense and so I thought I understood it and it's necessary to be able to follow what the person says but just because you can follow it doesn't mean that's really only half of it it's necessary but not sufficient and I ran into this again when I started writing blog posts so I knew that what I was talking about was going to be controversial and that I didn't have the credentials to just let people take my word for it and so anytime that I wrote something that I thought um well even if I thought that my intended audience would consider it common knowledge or acceptable I decided to really try to find a citation for every claim that I was going to make and sometimes I couldn't find a citation for it sometimes when looking for it I found out that it was actually wrong and I had to go back and rethink my entire argument or sometimes abandon a whole thesis of an article that I was writing and if I hadn't done that then I wouldn't have noticed that I was carrying around beliefs that weren't actually true so that whole process was a learning process for me and at the time I considered it actually a blessing that I didn't have a PhD because it meant that I didn't allow myself to get lazy and ask people to take anything that I was saying on Authority and I had to go through that process and in in retrospect I'm really grateful that I did it because you know like 12 years ago I was writing stuff and I don't really remember necessarily why I thought X Y or Z but I wrote it down and now I can look back so it's a little bit like if you're a programmer and you're writing code you look back at it later and think what were they doing and that person was you and thank goodness you wrote something about it so you could tell what you were thinking at the time so do it for yourself if not for other people uh so one of the projects that I would like to go toward moving forward is writing or using more open- Source tools for writing and learning and I want to be sharing those and inviting people to do some Collaborative Learning and I also would like to get more involved in promoting and maybe even creating permissionless censorship resistant sharing ing because of the ideas I was talking about earlier about how we have to own and take responsibility for our own data so that other people can't just turn it off at will so I hope that you'll join me in exploring some of that stuff and that's all I have

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ABmxd9aSJbc (https://youtu.be/ABmxd9aSJbc) ===

Michelle Hearn is a registered dietitian and ultr Runner with groundbreaking work on an animal-based ketogenic diet for anorexia and significant significant athletic achievements please welcome Michelle Hearn thank you so much yeah I'm one of those crazy ultar Runners I'm from Portland Oregon so when I was looking at the weather a couple weeks ago I was like I can't wait to go to Vegas it's going to be so sunny and nice in the morning so got a got a nice wet run this morning all right you guys so my wife is a clinical lab scientist and sometimes at her work they you know they do work presentations and she listened to a presentation that was talking about mammograms and everybody needs to get their mammograms so she comes home and says we need to get mammograms and I'm like ah come on we both just turned 40 We're Young we're healthy you know I've been doing a low carbohydrate diet now for almost four years but I'm a good sport so cool I did it doing some work in long-term here right now up arrow goes there we go so I came home I'll never forget this day it was December 20th came home from long-term care you know patients are annoying nobody wants to stop drinking soda eating sugar this is my dog Jackson I love Jackson so every time I get home it's like playing with them ah you know I love you Jackson my wife walked up to me and I'm not being hyperbolic when she said three words that changed my life she said I have cancer and it felt surreal it felt like somebody had punched me in the chest I didn't know what to do I didn't know what to say and what goes through your mind actually if you don't mind can I just have a show of hands of people somebody you know in your life has been impacted by cancer would you re see that's a lot of us here right never in a million years did I think it would be my wife so what went through my mind in the 5 seconds after she said that you know I thought about one of our this is one of our first pictures together when we were 24 we look super young and then falling in love and then she's she's my biggest supporter this was after a 62m race she crewed me to the wind there and then you know i' been married before I was like I'm never getting married again but then you fall in love so asking her to marry me getting married and I also thought about I knew thank you I knew I've heard that cancer is increasing in young people I actually I was speaking at low carb USA in August of 20121 when I got a text this is my uh one of the women I ran with when I was in college and she said Michelle the doctor says I have two weeks she had a very aggressive form of breast cancer I uh remember stepping out and saying I'm flying down tomorrow she said my family's going to be here can you please fly down next weekend book my flight to Houston she passed away 3 days later she was 36 you guys in the United States right now about 1,700 people die every single day of cancer and so we've been doing a lot of research on the genetic mutations of cancer so here was the deal they thought and this was this was was in 2015 over $375 million was spent trying to look at the genetic mutations of cancer trying to look at that DNA sequencing and the thought was if we can figure out what's going on we can figure out how the DNA is moving we can put we can create these drugs that will prevent that but I love what I love what this woman says she says cancers are often quick to become resistant to drugs typically by activating genes to bypass whatever ever cellular processes blocked that's a really fancy way of saying crap these drugs aren't working so it's failing we're failing we're not getting better more people are dying not less but what if what if we started looking at cancer on a metabolic level most of us here can appreciate just how powerful metabolic therapy is for diabetes for heart disease and now for bipolar disease and what a great presentation earlier this morning on Alzheimer's disease what if we treated cancer like those diseases so I will forever be in debt to Dr Dr cyre cancer wasn't necessarily on my radar when I wrote the book The dietitians dilemma I was very confident about talking about type two diabetes uh Eating Disorders just how stupid The Academy of nutrition is but I wasn't confident on ketogenic diets and cancer but I caught up real quick you know so let's look at what Dr Thomas ciper says he says that um tumor cells they show issues they show metabolic maladies um uh sorry has shown that most tumors share the metabolic malady of aerobic fermentation that arises from disregulated oxidative phosphorization that is a very fancy way of saying the M mitochondria and tumor cells are messed up they don't act like the mitochondria and regular cells and this is across the board this is in breast cancer prostate cancer liver cancer in fact even the academy um I'm sorry even the American Cancer Society will tell you the rate of glycolysis in cancer cells is 10 to 15 times the normal uh of a normal cell and what does that mean and why is that important I like this diagram so this is a normal cell so normal cells want to run glycolysis they want to take glucose and they want to bring it all the way down here they want to run it through this uh through glycolysis so they can get all this energy but tumor cells don't do that even with oxygen they ferment they go to lactate so you get minimal amounts of energy and that's why they're you know they're increasing their insulin keep the mic they're increasing their insulin receptors um so we know Dr Thomas Cy has actually been able to show cancer cells need fermentable fuels not just glucose they will use glucose but they will also use glutamine and this is just another picture of that they can actually use glutamine to make amino acids lipid synthesis they can do a few other things that can come into nucleotide synthesis so if we know this if we know that cancer cells need these things to to you know grow to multiply why don't we eat in a way that minimizes those substrates so this is a statement from the American Cancer Society it says lab Studies have shown that metabolism of glucose the main sugar used as an energy source in the body is faster in cancer cells than normal cells great we're all on the same page we just said that right 10 to 15 times the normal rate they go on to say this fact is often misinterpreted by people who assume incorrectly that sugar in foods and beverages directly feeds cancer cells is anyone else confused so no I think we got it and I want to make it very clear and this is where people get kind of confused like oh I eat a healthy diet your metabolism it doesn't care if you're eating white table sugar chocolate or oranges so if you really if you have a cancer diagnosis is somebody you know and love gets this diagnosis it's very important that you follow a very specific therapeutic ketogenic diet that's what we're going to be talking about is this idea particularly popular no this is a drink made for cancer patients it's called insure clear there's a problem here do we see it's 52 grams of carbohydrates in this drink that's more than a McDonald's Hot Fudge Sunday also um you know ton of sugar too I don't know if we can say that a lot of sugar too not super popular this is actually a meal that was uh some of somebody texted this to me a breast cancer patient so you know lots of carbohydrates glad they threw in a tiny bit of protein just to say they could this is a nice message that I got anybody who's been in this space probably gets several of these messages hey you should delete your Rd credentials on your profile cuz you aren't one and you never should it's against the law to act like a medical professional sugar doesn't like you either too bad cuz it's hella good so unfortunately and I'm not just the you know trying to obviously I I crossed out her name this unfortunately is the view of a lot of dietitians if you've been to the hospital if you've had a loved one in the hospital the current dogma and the current kind of ideology is if you have a cancer diagnosis you need to concentrate on getting enough protein and calories doesn't matter where it comes from but you don't want to lose weight that's bad so eat whatever you want you're sad you have cancer eat whatever you want that is not going to work on a metabolic level I actually heard somebody say cancer you know patients are already overwhelmed can you why would you in the why in the world would you restrict food why would you ask them to follow this difficult diet you want them to test ketones are you kidding me but let me tell you something we have very good data that a therapeutic ketogenic diet can shrink tumors they do not metabolize ketones or if they do they don't metabolize them well we also know that people who follow this this way of eating as an adjunct to therapy get very clear margins and let me tell you when Karine Ken is my wife when she was diagnosed once again you feel like someone punched you in the chest all of a sudden you have no control over everything how empowering is it to know if you do this this could improve your outcome this is something you have control over so I want to tell you that's not than that's not a you know that's not a burden that's a miracle that is empowering and I want to tell you just how grateful I am that I knew that I knew that I'm I want everybody to know that we have some great studies Dr cyre I encourage all of you guys to look him up he's got so many amazing published studies and we're going to see more and more my heart breaks I actually heard him talk on a podcast and he said we will not see this as common practice until someone figures out how to monetize it and that's kind of how it goes with a lot of things but we can Grassroots talk about it share about it and we're going to make sure our loved ones know about it I love this so Dr cyre did this with a a dog people are like oh dog okay come on we do studies on rats and animals so but it was a therapeutic calorie restricted ketogenic diet and this dog has a mass cell tumor you can see the tumor here just with that no medication no radiation look at the the tumor is gone it's gone and years later it's still gone that's fascinating to me I will forever be grateful the day after karan's diagnosis we immediately connected with the woman I had met at a conference who wrote the book uh keto for cancer and Karine was put on a therapeutic ketogentic calorie restricted diet we weighed food we tracked it with chronometer thank you so much shout out to keto Mojo we tested her blood ketones every single day I say I mean she did I was you know I was only there when she was really struggling I was like sorry I can't have bread sorry sucks um and it's so hard you guys we have met literally at this point we have over 18 professionals you have to see a surgeon and you have to see oncologist you have to get an MRI and you have to do all these things how many do you think talk to us about diet one almost and her advice was that don't eat animal fat and so I was about green NOP because we had decided we knew we already knew what we were doing we weren't going to argue right no but I just once again my heart breaks that that's you know when we have this evidence and so how is she doing how's Karine doing so she has stage one um uh ductal carcinoma so she ended up once again immediately getting on the therapeutic ketogenic diet they scheduled surgery ended up having to have a partial masectomy they were hoping to do a lumpectomy but it was too advanced but I will kid you not when we went back to her surgeon he said I've never seen someone heal so fast he said it must be because you're young you're healing so fast and then we got a call from pathology and they said this is amazing this you got super clear margins they they told us initially she would have to do a month of radiation and after the uh the report they said you only have to do five days so oh yeah this was a this was a post I did just got back from meeting with my wife and our oncology surgeon my God your incision looks great you're healing so well so it's been very uh you know obviously it's been very emotional for both of us and you know I kind of want to leave you guys with this I'm happy to share any of my resources um I was thinking about this earlier you know there's a there's a saying that the Navy Stills actually have that says you know we don't rise to the level of expectation you know you kind of think like oh if I prepare and I do all these things if somebody expects something I'm going to be I'm going to be there we fall to the level of our preparation when we do something over and over it matters I mean sometimes it's so easy to think like does this advocacy matter does what I'm doing every day matter does me running matter does eating this way matter it matters because I've eaten a low carb diet I was physically and mentally prepared to handle this because it was a lot and because of this way of eating I am completely confident that my wife will be in remission and we'll never have to do this nonsense again so thank you guys so much I really appreciate your time I is there any questions I think have like a minute or no yeah there's a minute uh actually you've got a few minutes does anyone have any questions for Michelle yes oh in the back um if you could repeat the question yeah yeah that was a great question her question was what about glutamine so this is also where it's really important um this was something that was a little unusual for Karine and I if you follow me online used to eating massive portions of animal protein so we it really had to be a protein restricted diet as well to where it was very very high fat um because you know glutamine is obviously present in a lot of foods they're they're working on glutaminase like enzymes basically they'll be medications that block the enzymatic action of glutamine but at least for her and even what we've seen in in these studies that they've done is it's just been the fact that you've restricted protein down to a ketogenic level great question yes I yeah so there's there he has Dr cyer has a very specific protocol and some people I don't have to L sure so his that's a great question so his question is um the the the the protocol that Ken used and that a lot of people are using is a calorie restricted ketogenic diet so his his question was like oh my gosh like how long can I go like especially and they do recommend fasting and it's different for every person so you're obviously very lean um I think it kind of depends on how you know what are you coming from like are you a little bit obese are you normal weight are you lower weight yeah just specifically you I can tell you no no medical advice here without a side waiver no just kidding I honestly I don't know but I would I would have to defer to whoever your professional is but I would imagine you know you could go for a relatively long time we actually there was a really good study that um people who were doing ketogenic diets I don't say fasting for a really long time but doing a calorie restricted diet um it prevented cancer CIA like the Ketone bodies actually slowed down protein breakdown so you're welcome yes yeah that's a great question so she asked what kind of diet was K on before her cancer diagnosis and um we both followed kind of the standard whatever diet through most of our 20s and 30s and then like 2019 is when we both switched to a a low carb diet you know very high animal protein she probably was about 50 gram of carbs or less um but but yeah we never measured ketones so and that's another good question I mean I've had people say like God I feel like I ate healthy or I feel like I did this cancer is a GameChanger you have to be in therapeutic I mean if you want to in my opinion you really want to make sure you're in therapeutic ketosis so you really want to make sure protein is you know moderate fat is very high and carbs are very low it makes sense in my opinion to have an expert kind of get you started and guide you through that and then to test your blood ketones all right I think we'll have to W it there thank you so much again Michelle

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: qZb_16m44dg (https://youtu.be/qZb_16m44dg) ===

Dr William Cromwell brings over 30 years of expertise to lipidology currently leading research and medical efforts at velocity clinical research and importantly chief medical officer at Precision Health reports please welcome Dr William [Applause] Cromwell well good morning morning I got in at 1:30 this morning woo I didn't know it rained in Las Vegas it evently rains a lot in Las Vegas that caused the rolling to lay so with my four hours of sleep I am pseudo awake that's all right um couple of thoughts uh about this talk this is not the usual conversation that I have with people it's going to be mortality focused but to have that conversation we need to set some context and so that's what I'm going to do uh I have disclosures that's them I'm happy to keep them up there for a while some speakers just go Bam Bam and you can never even read them right so I've done a few things with a few people right uh where are we going with this conversation I think it's really important to begin by having an understanding of the challenges that we have encountered and understanding the development of disease outcomes which can be non-mortality outcomes as well as mortality outcomes and can I ask the question where are we today it would not surprise you that this is controversial it would not surprise you there are differences of opinion that's okay we're going to embrace that what we'd like to understand also is the degree to which metabolic and inflammatory issues contribute to mortality and these are learnings that have come to us peac meal in various disease States um my research group has contributed to this over the past few years as well but I think what we all understand is that there is a relationship which underpins people's likelihood of dying of various things and this being a metabolically Centric audience I think you would appreciate the fact that it's not all about one biomarker yet it is about our physiology and ways in which our physiology can set us up for success or failure and that's basically going to be the way that we kind of pull this thread through toward the end so uh I have a couple of introductory slides that are purposely intense this is one of them so do not glaze over it's all right uh I'm taking a 45 minutes section of time time and giving you about 45 hours of ideas but I can't do a deep dive in all of them but um I started in this field 34 years ago I started my first sliping clinic in 1988 '89 at which point nobody cared right uh and over the past 70 years we have been informed by genetic data observational data intervention trials a variety of things and just to let you know where did lipidology begin lipidology began in the 1950s by the work of golfman and lindan you see these guys were the ones who characterized the fact that cholesterol didn't just float around in your blood they were carried actively by lipoprotein particles as represented in this little cine Loop and these particles can be atherogenic punitive or they can be protective the punitive particles for various reasons can make their way into the wall of the artery where they can be part of a process of AOS sclerosis and so we went from there to the standpoint of understanding that there were issues that helped us develop a plaque progress a plaque and contributed to outcomes so if you look at plaque formation in general terms we have modifiable risk factors that can increase or decrease your risk and actually it can go back and forth it's it's not monolithic it's not set in stone these factors are very Dynamic and if you notice in the yellow these will impact risk variably over time you also have non-modifiable factors age gender Etc and From Plaque formation we have plaque progression which is generally influenced in a similar fashion by modifiable non modifiable factors and this goes on to atic cardiovascular events AC CBD events which could be fatal or non-fatal but more recently we've imposed on the top of this little diagram the fact that you can have interaction between modifiable and non-modifiable factors you can also have genetic factors environmental factors diet lifestyle factors comorbidities which can augment or attenuate your risk and that can go back and forth and they can influence both the other non-modifiable and modifiable factors now if that looks very busy it is and that's you every moment of your day can you understand why it would be very difficult to tease out of that the relationship of one biomarker as being the only point of reference that is important and this is where I think you will hear me say throughout this talk it is more complex it is an interaction of many variables and What Makes Us individual needs to have something of this in the conversation so we have conflicting data and you can ask a simple question what really matters my statement is that conflicting data have sparked a lot of debate regarding what biomarkers you should care about what comorbid conditions you should care about are therapies uh absolutely necessary do we need things like LDL lowering drugs and if so what is their potential benefit uh another way to say this is there's a parable of the six Blind Men and the Elephant you remember that Parable they they have a an ability to detect a certain amount of information in their environment but it's limited because they're blind and as they feel around the elephant they're reacting to the data they see in front of them it's a fan it's a wall it's a rope it's a tree it's a snake it's a spear well we do the same thing right LDL cholesterol significantly predictive of atic cardiovascular disease or not atherogenic lipoproteins not lipids are what are causal for atic cardiovascular disease apob is causal but insufficient to try to understand the relationship with ascvd risk causal risk factors that predict non-fatal events should predict mortality mortality actually depends on factors independent of causal risk factors and I'll tell that depending on the analysis all of these conflicting opinions can be simultaneously correct and that's the truth now the problem is if we have an investment in one of these we can become very attached to our worldview and we become very attached to our worldview we are defending a worldview despite other data so how do we move forward one of my favorite quotes to try to embody what I just said is from Mark Twain it ain't what you don't know that gets you into trouble it's what you know for sure that just ain't so so I think that's where we're at it's what you know for sure just ain't so and I hope I'm one of those guys who will be a lifelong learner who would be able to look at conflicting data in a constructive way another way to say that is I've called this meeting today to kick around some ideas on how we might get out of these cages all right we're not doing anybody any favors by retreating to our camp and saying I told you and we fill in the blank or you have conflicting data and say but that's usually not the first answer to trying to integrate anything so with that in mind there are factors that contribute to our conflicting data and and this is a nerdy slide and for those of you who are kind of scientifically oriented in the room the latter part of the slide will make more sense but um the questions you ask and the way that you handle data determine your observations ask a bad question get a bad answer ask the wrong question get the wrong answer ask the right question you're getting data that you might be able to deal with multiple observations can be true simultaneously individual observations often reflect aspects of the same entity in many cases conflicting observations are the result of inconsistent data analysis and how much adjustment has been made for interrelated variables I live in that space for 30 plus years I have been involved in basic science and clinical research uh I've done a fair amount of publishing my group as a whole uh nearly 700 per reviewed papers we've learned a few things I will tell you how you handle the data matter and two people can handle the same data two different ways and have two different conclusions there are confounder variable effects replete throughout this design disease it is what it is and you have to deal with them analytic discordance between alternate measures of punitive biomarkers LDL is not cholesterol cholesterol does not cause vascular disease there is no good or bad cholesterol there are particles that carry cholesterol that can be punitive or protective how you quantify particles that carry cholesterol can be done directly by some measure of particle number or indirectly by the cargo they carry the cargo they carry and the number of particles present can agree be concordant or they can disagree they can be discordant when they disagree risk tracks with particle number never cholesterol period end of comment cholesterol never gets it right unless it agrees with particle number period end of comment these are things you can write on a rock there is no exception to those rules contrasting observations using new analytic techniques can cause us challenges that's true in the Imaging World especially variations in trial design execution and duration all clinical trials are not done the same way observations are time dependent population dependent and execution dependent therefore you would have a very hard time reconciling things and risk factor interactions that augment or attenuate risk can occur differently at different stages of the disease things that drive plaque formation are not necessarily the things that drive events things that drive plaque progression may be different than the things that ini initiate plaque so the fact that these things exist in a dynamic state is also true so here are some basic principles for resolving conflicting observations this this is Bill's rules for how to be a nice guy in this space all right number one we're on a journey we're still learning we haven't arrived yet number two treat all data as informative number three seek to understand and why data conflict number four drivers of disease progression outcomes including all cause mortality are complex and significantly influenced by various factors you cannot exist in a vacuum punitive risk factors differentially influence that significant individual heterogeneity exists within a group a group of highrisk people are not monolithic just because you carry a high-risk label doesn't mean everybody has the same risk new analyses bring new understandings models of disease need to be adjusted to accommodate new learnings sometimes our model of disease is not adequate to accept new information we have to modify the disease model and finally remember that there is a patient at the end of the exercise I will come back to that many times one of my strong biases is that we want to do the right thing one patient at a time and if you're going to do that you're going to have to open the aperture and see a little bit more than just what's straight in front of you so from that we're going to talk about current challenges in mortality risk in general the best case scenario is you're healthy you get old and you die not so bad the not so healthy is you get things and if you have things you die anyway H but you know if you're interested in why that might happen what factors Drive mortality we kind of worked our way backwards we say Well we'd like to understand the disease in the first place so we have the risk factor model there are risk factors that put you at risk for developing these things maybe it's those risk factors that put you at risk of death seems logical but not necessarily consistent with all data so if that's the case are we missing a common predisposing mortality set of factors which are really setting you up for failure independent of the risk factors that I'm showing you here and indeed metabolic malnutrition and inflammatory syndromes are a common soil out of which mortality grows and specifically we're going to talk about that for the rest of this talk so this idea that metabolic and inflammatory contributions to mortality exist coack to some well trod ground where there's an intertwining of malnutrition and inflammation in several populations we see this in older folks we see this in various chronic diseases that are characterized by CIA malnutrition and Frailty such as chronic kidney disease liver disease congestive heart failure chronic obstructive pulmonary disease rheumatoid arthritis cancer these folks age differently and as their disease gets worse it's common for them to become thinner it's common for them to have other metabolic issues which are inherent to these disease processes so syndromes of coexistent malnutrition inflammation Go by different terms different names you've SE them here protein energy wasting Kia sarcopenia the one I like is malnutrition inflammatory complex syndrome it's a syndrome um studies are hampered because we have imperfect clinical assessment tools to determine the presence of this complex intertwined malnutrition inflammatory syndrome and the main markers of this if you look at literature things like ALB human C reactive protein are pretty blunt instruments so if we look at the inflammatory malnutrition syndrome I'm going to build a slide from the center out this is for people with chronic kidney disease you notice that in the center the end result of many inputs that you'll see is some type of malnutrition some type of inflammation in this fin diagram shows this overlapping characteristic uh the inputs are many and varied they can range from nutritional loss actual dialysis itself various endocrine disorders comorbidities lots of inputs and the outputs are biochemical outputs compositional outputs various survival paradoxes which I think are very curious right um we think of obesity as an indicator of insulin resistance metabolic syndrome but it's the obese people who don't die as much it's the lean people who do it's the people with the low blood pressure who are dying more it's the people with the low cholesterol who are dying more and is that a reflection of this underlying pathophysiology or are these punitive risk factors not as related to the disease as we once thought well the authors highlighted the fact that no single biomarker can adequately address the features of this metabolic inflammatory syndrome instead you need multimarkers and a multimarker is a combination of markers which better perform than single elements thereof and we'll talk about that so the populations with a high prevalence of this malnutrition inflammatory complex have this paradoxic relationship that I just said about it's low BMI which is problematic it is low cholesterol which is problematic it is low blood pressure which is problematic and you can see and have seen many talks where they have a j-shaped or U-shaped curve now in your mind's eye just think on the bottom you're looking at something like BMI and BMI is low on the left and it's high on the right and on the Y AIS is mortality so as you start with a high BMI your mortality risk appears relatively high and it goes down as you get to a more normal BMI but then as your BMI goes below a certain point the mortality risk goes back up same thing can be true with blood pressure or cholesterol and we have to somehow deal with that so is this relevant to cardiovascular disease or individuals at low risk that's an open question I just made the case that we see this commonly in variously diseased individuals but is that true for cardiovascular disease or people at low risk well this is where our group tried to make a contribution to literature with a multimarker called mvx metabolic vulnerability index so what you see is that um mvos and I have worked together for nearly three decades he is credited with the application of nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy for quantifying various biomarkers lipoproteins Chief among them but also inflammatory biomarkers other nutritional biomarkers uh amino acids Ketone bodies uh a variety of things and because inmar is a platform where there's a lot of information deeply embedded in it you can extract from from that individual things that you can then take back to certain study questions and populations and ask the question what have we learned about metabolic inflammation and what biomarkers could give us better visibility to that and what we found was that there were six biomarkers two of them of inflammatory origin four of them of metabolic origin that gave a good indication of whether we had an inflammatory vulnerability or a metabolic vulnerability underly the various populations that we were interested in so we aggregated this into a multim marker called mvx and mvx is made up of gly a a systemic inflammatory biomarker which has attributes which are much Superior to hscrp small HDL particle number which has a a very strong association with not only inflammation but a variety of other physiologic functions loose veine isoline citrate metabolic markers of metabolic health and when we combine these into a multimarker with a score that ranges from 1 to 100 we can then take this to populations and ask us some questions one of the populations we like looked at early on was called cathgen and I'll tell you about cath genen in just a moment it's a repository at Duke University of individuals who came in for a cardiac cath they acquired lots of information and they said well good news is you're not dead yet we're going to follow you for a while and we're going to see what we can learn no worries we're just going to be like little you know Birds on a fence watching you and if you die we're going to say whooo what did we just learn you know a lot of people do this Inter Mountain heart they have another one bio repository we're going to watch you do we also have observational studies things like Mesa the multi-ethnic study of aerosis a tremendously important population because Mesa is like a modern-day Framingham Heartstone stud and as you heard from Matt budoff yesterday Matt has been a principal uh investigator and lead in Mesa I'm a principal investigator in Mesa as well prevent cardia or other uh populations that we have looked at so the idea would be with access to these populations and what we already know from them would mvx teach us something new well let's find out so this is one of the articles that we published uh in Lancet uh fairly recently 2023 asking the question what does mvx do as a marker of mortality in this well-characterized population the objective was to assess 5-year mortality using mvx and Cath gen and then to proof test that against a second cohort Inter Mountain heart and these are both bior repositories the subjects were 18 years of age or older in cath gen they were enrolled between January 2001 and December 2011 Inter Mountain of heart September 2000 September 2006 they all underwent uh cardiac catheterization and they had biomarkers available for us to interrogate as we watch them either live or die and I told you about what mvx is already and we're looking at the mortality associations and we're comparing them to co-variants now remember there are other reasons that people could be at risk of death being old is Chief among them who knew old people die so that becomes a real sticky Wicked you if you're thinking that something else can help you understand mortality you have to adjust for age and usually when you adjust for age other things kind of Fall by the wayside pretty quickly because age is that factor which uh kind of Trumps many things so you're going to see this impossible to read slide build for you oh joy I've got several of these sorry about that so we're going to just pull out the top and I'm going to characterize a couple of things for you number one we're talking about an individual population of 5,876 folks thousand of whom died that's a pretty good sample size and in the case of Inner Mountain heart we're talking about a group of 2,888 of which 441 died and it would not surprise you as I show you here that people who are in the dead group are older than the people who are in the not dead group okay it's always good to see things that you expect right it would be odd not to see that so I'm good with that um we can also look at a few other things we can say that diabetes if you look at this if we're looking at percent the people who were dead higher percentage of diabetes okay that makes sense we can also look at BMI so here's BMI and people who are dead a little bit lower BMI all right that's interesting what about these chronic conditions heart failure chronic kidney disease previous heart attack coronary artery disease on angiography comparing the dead group to the not dead group relatively greater frequency okay that makes sense got that what about their biomarkers I did take the liberty of converting Mill moles to milligram per deciliter because we are in the US so you might or might not know immediately what a 3mo uh cholesterol value is so I just thought I'd put that in there so what does this teach us interestingly enough well if you take a look at it total cholesterol lower in the dead group HDL cholesterol lower in the dead group all right that's interesting um inflammatory vulnerability index that's uh gly a and small HDL particle number higher metabolic vulnerability index those are the four biomarkers of inflammation higher mvx the aggregate score higher all right so we're seeing some Trends there interesting now the next three slides could be mind-numbing I hope they aren't I'm going to tell the story and then I'm going to let the slide build to reinforce the story the story is that there are drivers of outcomes which are not fatal and there are drivers of outcomes that that are fatal and I said early in my talk that perhaps the drivers of non-fatal outcomes could be different than the drivers of fatal outcomes well is that the case well if we just take a look here notice that as far as age is concerned there is a strong signal here for age in the mortality group but not in the non-fatal group that's interesting over here you'll see that smoking hypertension diabetes heart failure family history unique to the Fatal group not the non-fatal group but prior Mi and angiographic coronary disease significant for the non-fatal group but not the Fatal group all right but that's interesting and then down at the bottom uh you'll see a little bit difference in BMI BMI a significant uh IND individual univariant for the Fatal group but not for the non-fatal group so you're going to see this kind of play out differences between the two groups now what we do is begin to introd uce elements of mvx remember mvx is a multimarker that consists of six entities I can put the individual entities here we'll do that on this Slide the next slide we're going to begin to aggregate them into the IMX the inflammatory vulnerability score and MMX the metabolic vulnerability score so when we do this what do we see we see that these biomarkers absent Lucine significant individually for mortality risk and to some degree similar for non-mortality risk now when we look at the degree to which these others are contributing once again race as a just univariant significant on one side versus the other family history Mi or um Mi CAD non-fatal side BMI fatal side HDL cholesterol non-fatal side estimated glomular filtration rate see so there are differences kind of interesting what happens when we're now with the composite we see that in this case there are their relationships and once again the red boxes on the right are different than the red boxes on the left this does not get a lot of attention but it reinforces the fact that different risk factors comorbidities and biomark ERS have differential associations with fatal versus non-fatal outcomes it is what it is all right and now the big drum roll um these two terms ivx and mvx interact interaction means that at the same high tertile for ivx there is increased mortality Association as a function of mvx and vice versa at the highest tertile of mvx there is a greater Association as a function of ivx so instead of just adding two terms together you would be better served to allow the data to predict a multimarker term that would allow for interaction and that is the multimarker term if you were asking well what is the gender specific mvx equation it's that just thought I would show my work it's always good to show your work right so show your work all right I'm showing my work thank you yeah always good you know if you're wrong it could be because your work's wrong that's okay too you should be very transparent so here is mvx and and this is going to tell you a couple of stories number one is mvx and these numbers we haven't focused on I was telling a story with red boxes before now I'm going to switch and tell a story with the actual numbers what you're looking at in this category box here is called Kai Square percent what on Earth is that Ki square is a statistical metric of the uh degree to which a biomarker is strongly or not strongly related to the outcome of interest there is a total Kai square and then you can say what percent of the total is the individual biomarker so percent Kai square is of all of the outcome Association observed what percent is due to mvx 69% that's a pretty strong number what about age 17% the next slide I'm going to have these numbers highlighted in a different way and what you're going to see in the next slide is if I never had mvx in any way available to me age would be a very dominant percent of the total risk but as I incorporate mvx age begins to drop quite a bit all right so here we have these factors and once again sorry hit the right button uh the red boxes on the right are different than the red boxes on the left so what we have done progressively over the past several slides is we have gone from an an unadjusted analysis where we're just looking at the common things we've introduced elements of metabolic and inflammatory vulnerability we have rolled them up into a weighted average gender specific multimarker and now we're seeing that there is still a consistent story as we do that the red boxes on the right are different than the red boxes on the left but the rest of the story anybody remember Paul Harvey I love Paul Harvey shows you how old we all are right so now the rest of the story so here is what it looks like in a bar graph fashion so this is the relative contribution to mortality risk using the 15 covariant just the usual stuff and 28% of the risk is due to age now when I add in the individual elements of mvx this goes down to 22% when I aggregate into ivx and mvx it goes down to 21% and if I look at mvx as a gender specific weighted multimarker it accounts for 69% of the mortality risk and AG is down to 177% what this is teaching me in this cohort is that you can be set up for disaster you can be a metabolically vulnerable individual and independent of your age you've got one foot on the banana peel this is not an atypical story I often ask my colleagues an infectious disease question why does one patient die and the other not same age same infection same organism same tissue site same antibiotic one Liv lives one dies and the old school answer is well one was an better host and the other was a more compromised host it was something about the host because in this analogy an antibiotic is like a club I give you a club you go beat up the organism what if you're too weak to hold the club the club is still there but you can't wield it so this idea that you have a compromised toost shows up in certain disease States well what if the idea of of a compromised host is true regardless of disease State what if being compromised puts you at risk of death due to atic cardiovascular disease cancer COPD chronic kidney disease congestive heart failure well that would be something indeed that's what you're going to see as we go along the next way you could ask this and this is probably the most um chilling slide in this deck is there a relationship between the magnitude of mvx and your likelihood of dying over five years in cath gen indeed which curve are you on if you're on this Curve Your mortality risk is very high if you're on this curve it's very low and if you'll notice age is not markedly different over many of these H that's interesting this is the quintile view of that in cath gen this is the quintile view of this in Inner Mountain heart they confirm one another all right is this a story which is true in meaningful subsets of patients for example men versus women the increment of risk due to a one standard deviation change of mvx is shown here this is the top versus bottom quintile so indeed mvx risk is equal for men and women it is true regardless of your age less than 50 or over 70 it is true regardless of your BMI less than 22 or over 30 it is true whether you have or don't have hypertension whether you smoke or whether you don't whether you're diabetic or not whether you have heart failure or not whether you have a previous Mi or not have you have angiographic cardiovascular disease or not chronic kidney disease or not or whether you're just healthy wow this is common soil that transcends disease States this might be an interesting new learning so what about a healthy population the multiethnic study of aerosis Mesa average age in the early 60s free of disease follow longitudinally what would the quintile mvx association with mortality look like in men and women in Mesa the same as you saw with cath gen or Inner Mountain heart I could show you this for prevend I could show you this for other populations as well this is taken directly from the paper and it is implications what are the implications of this our results suggest that survival might be more dependent on previously unrecognized causal factors distinct from those that are responsible for the development of disease H treating the underlying metabolic dysfunction of these overlapping syndromes might provide greater survival benefit than targeting conventional disease risk factors okay now we just threw a hand grenade in the [Applause] room I'm all about treating modifiable risk factors I have no idea if that will extend your life one day but all is not lost because what I can say is I can significantly improve your likelihood for heart attack stroke in life style related or Life Health span related issues I have this conversation with my patients what does a great day look like for you in your mind 10 years from now hold that thought are you more likely to have that great day if you've had a heart attack or a stroke or not H so we can do things that start with diet exercise comorbidity management risk factor modification and give you a better chance of avoiding some of these heart attacks and strokes but I have no idea if it's going to extend your life one day that is more likely due to metabolic vulnerability than risk factors this is where data teach us this is where we open the aperture this is where we allow the disease model to grow this is where multiple points of view can be right simultaneously and I'm okay with that and I hope you guys are too so let's apply mvx to heart failure this is a more recent paper in 2024 asking some of the same questions in a heart failure cohort this cohort is looking at mvx and its relationship to mortality and heart failure 1382 subjects this is the rockchester epidemiologic project another bior repository using the same uh things magic is a score which is looks at various biomarkers that are unique to heart failure mortality NP brmp anti probnp is a biomarker of CHF risk again we have one of these tables with lots of different things um you saw that before I'm going for the interest of time move on this is the uh distribution of mvx in this population relatively uh symmetric this is the relationship of mvx with mortality this cubic spine shows the 95% confidence intervals in the actual data which means the data across a continuous fashion Falls within the 95% confidence intervals and it has a very graded relationship so we're seeing a similar story with heart failure these are the individual survival curves so going down is bad you're surviving less uh this is an mvx which is not as bad this is an mvx which is worse if you look down here you see the actual numbers so the higher the mvx the more the mortality as a function of time the key findings were the mvx was associated with a large increase in risk of death in those individuals who had a spectrum of heart failure significantly graded and positive the highest mvx group was three times more likely to die compared to the lowest mvx group mvx remains significant after adjusting for the typical confounders like Magic score ejection fraction other biomarkers and the results were consistent with the heart failure cohort of cath genen now we're going to tack into something a little different we're going to look at a different bio repository from China and they're asking a different question what's the relationship with APO IM mortality that's a loaded question by the way I'm an apob guy but I don't believe apob tells us everything I believe apob is part of the causal pathway of vascular disease I believe luring apob decreases progression of plaque I believe luring apob is aociated with fewer non-fatal events and in some data sets Lor and AP B may be associated with a reduction and fatal events but not all so in this cohort you have uh assessment of Baseline apob with mortality interesting 36,000 individuals in this registry that came in for a heart cath sounds very much like cath genen they segregated them into those who had an apob B above 65 or below 65 now they call those high and low 65 is low and being above 65 is not high but they call it that that's fine and they're looking at the association with risk so just to point out a couple of things you know here we're looking at people who had high ER versus low ER apob and you see some of the characteristics here with respect to heart failure hypertension um chronic kidney disease malnutrition they were looking at nutrition and they asked the question how many people had no evidence of malnutrition and those who had low versus high Rel apob those who were metabolically healthier had a high apob those who were not as metabolically healthy had a lower apob and then they broke it down by the degree of metabolic uh stress if you will or malnutrition and notice the all cause mortality was higher in those with lower apob than those with higher apop so what I'm going to show you now is a series of plots this is the unadjusted plot in 38 ,000 individuals of apob on the x- axis and mortality on the Y AIS and as I look at this it appears that the lower the apob the greater the mortality interesting what about if I adjust this for age gender and comorbidities the curve is slightly different but it's still doing this what have we learned in this talk that there could be an association between metabolic vulnerability inflammation and mortality this PO this population this publication is looking at malnutrition metabolic vulnerability as a disease State and look at this if I adjust for nutrition that line straightens out and there is a relatively linear relationship with decreased mortality and lower apob but before that's not what I saw but if I adjust for metabolic vulnerability that's what I see multiple observations can be true simultaneously it matters how you handle the data we have to open the aperture we have to adjust for confounding factors we can learn things multiple points of view can simultaneously be correct so new learnings in mortality outcomes mortality outcomes are driven by different factors than those that are responsible for dis disease development progression or non-fatal events that is true in the elderly and chronically ill individuals there's a well documented link between mortality syndromes and the combination of metabolic and inflammatory vulnerability the paradoxic relationship is on Full display with increased BMI blood pressure and cholesterol being associated with decreased cardiovascular and all cause mortality in those populations but when you adjust for metabolic vulnerability you get different results mvx significantly seg Gates risk independent of age and across a variety of disease States so let's put this all together in land the plane with 2 minutes and 50 seconds left so yes I will stay within time I understand Dave's been pretty hard on that so I don't want to get hooked off the stage right drivers of disease progression and outcomes are complex and significantly influenced by various factors what do the guidelines say we should be doing right now the guidelines say that individual risk should be assessed by beginning with a calculated risk based on usual factors but we don't end there we consider comorbidities and over 30 risk enhancing factors to further understand individual risk we integrate Biometrics and outcome proven biomarkers to further inform risk for example what's up with your vessels do you have subclinical disease that's a different conversation we harmonize us and international go guidelines to Define individual risk and opportunities and very importantly this comprehensive assessment is married with patient outcome goals what's important to the patient is having fewer heart attacks or Strokes okay if it doesn't make you live a day longer and if that's okay we ought to do that and we should not misrepresent to people that if you don't live a day longer it doesn't matter it does at the end of the exercise there's a patient and we should be committed to Excellence I'm going to tell a story briefly that I don't commonly tell but it's true so you can know a little bit about the guy who's talking to you I started my practice in 1989 in lipidology one of my first FH patients was a lady named Sue I moved my practice to Florida in 1994 in 1995 I came back from vacation my phone was ringing I answered it when I got in the house it was was Sue's son who called me to tell me that she had died what happened when I left her she was in good shape she had had a heart attack she had a heart cast she had multiple small blockages they shouldn't worry about during her hospitalization one of these small blockages gave her another event and she died I expressed my condolences and 24 hours later I was at his house and for a week I stayed with that family and during that week questions were asked do this have to happen I didn't think did so during that trip I made a commitment and the commitment I made was that I would do the things I could do so there would be fewer Sue stories in the world and this is my commitment Excellence is a result of carrying more than others think is wise risking more than others think is safe dreaming more than others think is practical and expecting more than others think is possible do the right thing one patient at a time if you're going to do that you're going to have to open your aperture you're going to have to know that we risk being very defensive about our worldview and not very inclusive in new learnings I hope I'm a lifelong learner I hope this community which is very invested in science and moving the needle forward will have an increasing voice that's why I'm here because I want to be a part of the shared voice in this space we still have a lot to learn but the way we ask questions and the way we handle data have a lot to do with what our opinions are and with that I will yield back my time to Dave and thank you very much time

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 8EHD1M22CUM (https://youtu.be/8EHD1M22CUM) ===

really excited about this s is Darius sharp leverages his Healthcare background to understand and address pre-diabetes and heart health participating actively in Endurance Sports please welcome Daria sharp good afternoon everyone I first want to thank Dave for giving me the opportunity to speak here my name is Darius uh for the past 6 years I've been an ER nurse prior to that I was a paramedic and EMT in the 911 system for 16 years I've always been in pretty good shape ran track in high school I've always worked out uh over the last 10 years I've been doing endurance events like Spartan races marathons half marathons never been overweight really my highest weight was 192 right at the end of nursing school after eating lots of cookies it got me through it I lost the weight quickly I know um I've never smoked never drank I haven't taken so much of the Tylenol in the past 10 years I I know right dexfit actually gives me an A+ for their body scol which is like the only A+ I've ever had in my life body fat 133% my visceral fat is low my V2 Max is 52 which is a 93rd percentile for my age so I'm pretty good shape except I have heart disease I know right most people look at this guy and think he's perfectly healthy can eat whatever he wants doesn't need to go to the doctor but I'm a curious dude so I decided to get a CAC scan last last year and to my surprise my score came back at 44 similar to Jaime's husband I was like what the heck is going on here that score puts me in the 94th percentile if I was 45 the Mesa calculator doesn't go down to 39 which is my age at the time so what's happening well conventional medicine would say that dude your ldlc has been 179 at least since you were 25 you should have been on the Statin back then well is true my ldlc has been very high for pretty much my whole life Dave has given us some information recently that challenges that a bit but I actually don't think ldlc is innocent here and I'll get to that in a little bit my LP little a has been high as well but I've been able to bring it down through better glucose control which is my primary focus here back in 2013 I was diagnosed as a pre-diabetic that was based on a single fasting glucose reading of 105 at a doctor's uh appointment now was that appropriate they should have rechecked that test they should have done A1C and they should have went ahead and told me I was pre-diabetic which they didn't not appropriate however I did go on eventually to check my A1C and it was solidly in the pre-diabetic range and has remained so ever since so what's going on am I insulin resistant well for those of you nerds who understand these numbers here those are at best mild insulin resistance and those are my worst numbers ever the vast majority of the time over the past 3 years all my numbers have been pristine showing me to be insulin sensitive yet my A1C still stays high and to confirm this my fructosamine and my GL glyc albumin both show that I am in the pre-diabetic range and to confirm my bonafides as a lean mass Hypes you can see my LDL is high my HDL is high my triglycerides are low I'm fit I'm lean I'm insulin sensitive so why the heck do I have an elevated CAC score well let's take a look back that's me back in my young stud paramedic days and for those of you who are unfamiliar with ambulance work basically all you do is sit around in parking lots and wait for a call well what are in parking lots but all of the delicious and nutritious foods of our modern world and I was eating all of it because again I was fit and in shape who cares right eventually I wised up went on to nursing school after nursing school I stumbled across this book genius Foods by Max luga And for those of you unfamiliar with it it is a great first step into the world of nutrition science after this I started eating kind of a moderately low car diet about 100 Gams a day wasn't counting strictly but it was mostly Whole Foods based I dropped that nursing school weight quickly and after about a year I was getting off work one night and I had a hankering for some In-N-Out burger and I was like you know what I've been good I'm going to reward myself so I went and got myself a burger fries and a root beer started driving home after eating it and started feeling like garbage I was like what the heck's going on huh I wonder what my glucose is well I get home and check my glucose about an hour drive later and it comes back at 2 51 holy crap I thought so if a patient comes into my ER with this I go what did you eat before you came in here you're clearly diabetic you're not taking your medications but this was me this time so I had to look in the mirror now I went on I decided I would do a little experiment I would eliminate some of the carbs from the meal so you can see 251 is that first reading 204 was after eliminating the root beer 142 after eliminating the bun getting a lettuce wrap Burger 113 after getting two burgers lettuce wrap and eliminating the fries I was like all right well this looks like how I should be eating but did I learn my lesson no of course not right I still kept eating junk whatever I'm in good shape well I wised up a little bit decided to get a CGM last year and did some experimenting and as you can expect things like Pepsi pancakes bread rice those are going to spike me high but even things like clam chowder coconut water watermelon cherries and honeydew melon the these are all Whole Foods healthy sources of carbs that were spiking my glucose really high a single banana sends me to 179 if I eat that on empty stomach for those of you who remember clay those of you in the lean mass hyper responder group I had to get him in here I went to visit him in the hospital shortly before he passed and never missing an opportunity to experiment I went and got some tacos afterwards and as you can expect that one's for you clay so I decided to repeat that in-out experiment with the CG GM and expectedly my glucose went through the roof yet it returns back down to normal within just a couple hours showing me to be insulin sensitive this gave me an idea I was like hm let me give myself uh let me try a experiment here so I did one week of Keto versus one week of high carb keto week 23 grams of net carbs high carb week 300 grams of net carbs daily on average this is the result of that so at the end of the keto week I did an oral glucose tolerance test you can see my Baseline glucose was lower but I had a higher result on the oral glucose tolerance test high carb week higher Baseline glucose but lower Peak so this is expected for these tests these tests are actually designed to be done by people who are eating carbohydrates and Ben bitman can tell you about that I graphed the result afterwards and you can see keto again glucose was high and my insulin had a higher Peak as well high carb weak I had a lower glutose Peak and a low insulin peak but still in both cases my glucose and Insulin were back down to normal in 2 hours so I passed the test I am insulin sensitive this is a little busy but it is the graph of my CGM during each week first week keto 94 on average glucose you can see the graph is largely flat except for that one little Peak up there towards the top and that was a one mile time uh one mile time trial did for myself so that was purely from exercise now on the the second week I had a higher average glucose but I was getting Spikes all over the place look at this many times above 150 many times at 180 and above I was trying to keep my spikes minimized this time but it was still happening I was getting what we call Post prandial hyperglycemia and this I believe is not only a huge blind spot not only in conventional medicine but even in our space as well unless you have a CGM or are diligently checking your glucose after eating carbo hydrates you're not going to see it and this can happen even if you are fit and insulin sensitive now the problems with postrenal hypoglycemia as you can see you're going to have an exaggerated insulin response you're more likely to develop type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance is actually one of the first early signs of someone who's going to go on to develop type 2 diabetes you're going to have increased glycative damage you're going to have damage to your glyx and your endothelium you're going to have reduction of your endothelial progenitor cells which are responsible for he steing your endothelium you're going to have activation of your polyol pathway um like uh they were talking about earlier and increased fructose production you're going to have microvascular damage you're going to have glucose dumping from your kidneys leading to things like UTI and even renal failure and here's the big thing you're going to have increased glycation and oxidation of your lipoproteins of which I have a heck of a lot of this is where I believe ldlc is Not Innocent this I believe is the reason my see the AC score was elevated I'm getting giant glucose spikes and I have high LDL it's glycating and modifying those particles making them more atherogenic now this is going to be that's a big topic and going to be a subject of a future talk I just don't have time for it here now ultimately I've been I've been talking about myself this whole time but this isn't really about me this is about all of us so many of us just assume that we're healthy I get people that walk into my ER and and they look unhealthy they're obese they look ill they come up to me with some complaint like oh I I don't know why I feel this way I've always been so healthy I'm like no no no you haven't been healthy for a long time man but a lot of us assume we're healthy I assumed I was healthy but I had a problem because I wasn't checking and conventional medicine wasn't helping me you could have glucose problems high blood pressure lipid problems things like this and you don't know unless you check so check measure your weight daily track your calories and macros get chronometer I know people hate doing this but you know if you're trying to create a budget for yourself you know what you do you track your spending so that you see that you're spending $140 at Starbucks every month right check your glucose get keto Mojo check your ketones check to see if you're having postprandial glucose not everybody has this issue but maybe you do right so check your glucose prior to a meal 30 minutes and 1 hour afterwards after eating carbs and see if you have the same problem experiment on yourself try different uh try different diets try different exercise routines and see how you feel get your labs done thank you to Dave and Shaban for own your Labs it is a wonderful wonderful resource and it's been yeah big round of applause for them and you can take those labs and you can show them to your doctor maybe they can order them for you maybe they can't but at the very least you can work with your doctor you can you can show them hey I'm trying to improve my health look at these values I know a lot of us kind ofe conventional medicine but you know what bring them along with you show them hey this is what I'm doing to improve my health can you help me and they might actually be a lot more amable to the things that you're doing but ultimately don't rely entirely upon them your health is your responsibility so own it care about your future self so many people I see coming to my ER and are sick and are dying and I'm giving them medic I'm thumping on their chest and I'm watching their family members cry over their dead loved one who died decades before they should have and this is where I get passionate because we in conventional medicine have failed them people come in on dialysis diabetes completely out of control all these problems that could have been resolved had we just checked earlier had we given them good guidance these are people who are suffering and that we can help and that's where my passion lies and that's really why I am up here now what's ahead for me ultimately I want to repeat this clearly I want to repeat that CT scan with clearly to see if I have any soft plaque going to get a cimt done going to keep on working to bring my A1C and my LP little a Down Like I said before I was more on like a low carb diet I've switched to keto recently I've done things like used uh started on K2 and vitamin D I'm looking to starting on vitamin C as well I'm going to keep experimenting with by CGM and I'm going to keep investigating the post the impact of postprandial hyperglycemia on health because again I think it is a huge huge blind spot in both conventional medicine and even here and finally I'm going to continue to educate my patients my co-workers and the public about what I've learned I have learned so much from many of you in this audience and I just want to do my part to give back and contribute to this space thank you so much [Applause]

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 3ItQedMPnsY (https://youtu.be/3ItQedMPnsY) ===

we have our keynote speaker he's just arrived Dr Matt budoff of course it'll have to be a bit of an abbreviated uh presentation but he's pretty used to that so without further Ado your keynote speaker Dr Matt budoff thank you so sorry to be like uh comedy of of errors here but uh anyway let me uh get rolling here um so I'll be uh go through our intr uction so let me first just introduce the tool we use to measure plaque uh this is how we quantify atherosclerosis with a CT geography it's a non-invasive test a little IV we inject contrast into the coronary arteries and we can see not only how tight a blockage is in the form of stenosis but through making three-dimensional pictures we can look at the number of lesions we can look at the plaque volume how much plaque is present in each segment of each coronary artery and we can look at the overall uh coronary tree so the combination of these things gives us the opportunity to quantify plaque and then follow patients over time with this tool so the the keto match uh um what we did is we had a baseline study of 100 participants um this is the this is the intro slide but uh funded by the citizen Science Foundation thank you thank you all especially to uh Dave and Nick and others who really put this together um so uh so we we know this um issue right we have patients who adopt a keto a carbohydrate restricted keto diet uh for any reason and their LDL may go up uh usually uh the the get better in many patients if they're obese or have diabetes but the lean patients tend to exhibit uh uh increases in LDL and sometimes extreme increases in LDL cholesterol and it's been of great controversy whether this is dangerous or whether this is just another way of metabolizing uh energy in this uh ketogenic uh state so we uh looked at these patients um with uh uh High uh HDL low glycerides and very high LDL cholesterol we excluded patients who had genetic predisposition for high cholesterol what we call familial hyper cholesterolemia and um we uh excluded patients who didn't have a normal cholesterol before they got into the trial so they had to have normal cholesterol no abnormalities go on a ketogenic diet and then have this extreme response and that's the population we studied the aim of the study is to prospectively evaluate plaque progression over the course of one year and 100 metabolically healthy lean mass hyperresponders uh and uh here's the Baseline characteristics we matched this against a populationbased study so we took a study called Miami Hart they did CT angiographies also read by me and my lab um in a population of patients just of random sampling so we have a population-based patients as symptomatic people we looked at their PL and we look compared it to the plaque in our Baseline characteristics of the lean mass hyperresponders now lean mass hyperresponders are not familial hyp cholesterolemia FH as we call it is born with a high cholesterol um and uh unrelated to uh their HDL and triglycerides maybe High maybe low um but they know they have cardiovascular risk because they've lived with high cholesterol and and not in a metabolically healthy state for many many years uh lean mass hyperresponders induced by diet and otherwise very healthy metabolically healthy with a very good good cholesterol HDL above 80 and a very normal and low triglyceride so a much different population so we took these patients now we have 100 in the trial we were only able to match 80 in the Miami Heart trial because of age restrictions in that study compared to the population that we studied but but now we're going to compare 80 patients of our lean mass hyperresponders to patients exactly the same same age gender race diabetes hypertension all the risk factors except for LDL cholesterol and we're going to see if they're different here's our Baseline characteristics and I think you can appreciate ages are identical um the uh ethnicity is identical cholesterol is going to be different because of the lean mass hyperresponders the average LDL was 272 right normal for an asymptomatic person is 130 uh and compare that to 123 in the patients in Miami heart blood pressures were perfectly the same uh C reactive protein inflammation was the same hemoglobin A1c their their predisposition to diabetes was the same so everything else matched up very nicely so we looked at um this population and there were no differences I'll show you a moment but no significant differences in plaque between these patients with an LD the Miami Heart controls LDL of 123 and the ketogenic uh patients um uh with an LDL of um oh wa that's pre LDL sorry with an LDL of 273 so these are the this is the comparison this is the primary results of these 80 patients the calcium score Quantified plaque in the coronary arteries score of zero in keto score of one in the Miami heart so no difference P value not statistically significant total stenosis score zero on average the median was zero in the keto group they had on average no significant plaque and a score of one an average of one in the Miami Heart no statistical difference total plaque score this is where we're going to start getting into our total plaque quantification on average zero in keto and one in the Miami Heart no statistical difference and how many segments were involved in the coronary Tree on average zero with keto and one with Miami Heart none of these were statistically different but you can see even keto kind of trended on the better side of that higher numbers are more plaque and more stenosis now we're going to do quantitative plaque where we're going to get all plaque quantification and that's undergoing that's being done right now but at least at Baseline these groups looked very similar now we looked at the LDL versus the plaque score so this is increasing LDL these are the LDL values of the patients and here's the plaque that we saw in the lean mass hyper responders there was no relationship if there was a relationship you would expect a line like this where higher LDL was associated with more plaque and we don't see that same thing with Miami Heart the ldls are lower 123 instead of 272 but no direct relationship so LDL didn't predict plaque in the coronary arteries we then looked at um total plaque score and LDL just another analysis again increasing LDL increasing total plaque score and again no relationship in keto no relationship in Miami heart so the LDL did not drive plaque in the keto diet in other words patients who had a more significant hyper response ldls of 400 500 600 Mig per de did not have more plaque these patients had zero the patients at the far extreme here so no direct relationship between higher LDL induced by the ketogenic diet and plaque in the coronary arteries uh I'm not going to go through the mechanism uh for the sake of time but this goes back to a wonderful paper written by uh Nick norwitz and Dave Feldman um uh published uh talking about the potential energy model and why why you may get increase in LDL a decrease in triglycerides and an improvement in HDL good cholesterol when you're in a ketogenic State um so the I want to to show you not everybody with high LDL automatically develops heart disease even in familial hypercholesterolemia remember we said this is not FH but even if you looked at a population of patients with FH they had a no plaque at all calcium score of Z zero in 6,000 patients born with high LDL and 5,000 patients had some plaque present so LDL by itself not always a driving force you need other factors probably that that help uh drive this forward and give us a a increased cardiovascular risk and when they didn't have coronary calcium there was no increase in myocardial infarction and if they didn't have uh uh coronary calcium even if they had high LDL above 193 for life they didn't have increased risk of having a heart attack stroke or cardiac death so the we um looked back at the duration of high LDL in the population we studied in the Pat in these 100 patients and the mean duration was 4.7 years this is at Baseline so at followup now we're going to have 5.7 years and we finished the follow-up scans we're still analyzing them but we're going to have 5.7 years duration of elevated LDL induced by ketogenic diet and of course our sample size we'd have to admit is modest 100 patients but um uh adequate to answer the question about what we will see as plaque progresses so we concluded that after a mean duration of 4.7 years with a carbohydrate restricted uh uh diet inducing High LDL a median of 272 mg per deciliter a metabolically healthy cohort and that's going to be important a metabolically healthy cohort of lean mass hyperresponders on a ketogenic diet did not have greater atherosclerotic burden than participants from a populationbased uh cohort with similar risk profiles but markedly lower LDL cholesterol again there was no correlation between LDL and plaque burden so we did not see a direct relationship where the higher the induced LDL the more atherosclerosis at Baseline will have a one-year followup to help um to help look at this so uh let me just finish up with just uh this last slide and then we can open up for Q&A but I I think that this is um supporting data in the context of good metabolic Health that high LDL cholesterol May pose less concern especially when it's induced by ketogenic diet I don't think it it eliminates or or diffuses the lipid hypothesis that in patients who have uh metabolic disorders diabetes metabolic syndrome other uh coronary artery disease that that LDL shouldn't be reduced LDL is is a modifiable risk factor in the setting of metabolic disease in the setting of good metabolic Health we did not see a predisposition at least over 4.7 years for more atherosclerosis than it than the general population so poor metabolic health and or existing disease will still need treatment so with that I will stop and open up for Q&A and again thank you all for your support um and certainly um U glad to answer any questions and again apologize for my tardiness have any questions yeah just say it and I'll repeat it so they can hear it so a metabolically healthy person why they might have a low HDL so uh HDL is our good cholesterol and typically it it's opposite of triglycerides so triglycerides are usually the fats in our bloodstream as triglycerides go up the body processes um um with a couple different enzymes and produces uh or or um uh metabolizes HDL so HDL goes down in the in the setting of high LDL or vldl or vldl or triglycerides so low HDL is of interest but we don't fully understand why some people are walking around with very low hdls and we tried to treat this we used niin a B vitamin we've used fibrates we've used uh uh other agents called CP Inhibitors and no matter what we do for these patients who have very low HDL we can't seem to improve their cardiovascular outcomes by at least changing it with therapies now exercise diet uh may may have some impact but but we don't I don't think we have the full answer on low HDL but to be clear just to not confuse this issue we only studied patients who had high HDL in this study CU that was a sign of good metabolic health so HDL good cholesterol goes up up triglycerides are going down and LDL in these patients are going significantly higher and that's who we studied what do I oh very low HDL is below 40 I'm sorry so uh the definition of low HDL is 40 so as we lower HDL below 4 as as people are born with or have HDL below 40 that's considered abnormally low um and there are some people walking around with HDL the good cholesterol that takes the plaque that takes the cholesterol back into the liver for excretion there were people walking around with hdls of 20 which is very very low and those people usually have disease that's that's not metabolically healthy please yep so that's a great question so the question is maybe maybe 5 years Excuse Me Maybe 5 years isn't long enough maybe we needed to study them for 10 years or 15 years and I would say Obviously longer and larger is always better but I think five years with an extreme LDL elevation remember these are not modest changes these are ldls on average of 272 this is this is very very high uh normal for for asymptomatic people is 13 30 this is more than double that on average and we had people triple that and quadruple that so I agree it would be great to have longer term followup and we're we're talking about trying to do that and to have even longer followup in these patients to to continue to see what happens over time but I think five years is not insignificant I think five years of a very high exposure is atherosclerosis can start to form serum LPS or endotoxin so we we haven't looked at endotoxin or LPS yet we have a a host of of labs that we are going to run now that we've completed the study so we have a lot of blood stored in freezers and we're going to send for a lot of assays so you'll hear a lot more about the what's going on at a metabolic level what's going on at a cholesterol metabolism level and also looking at some of these other biomarkers of Health please wow great cancerides the hard work that you're doing yeah so triglycerides are very variable so triglycerides do tend to go up and down uh related to uh carbohydrates and your diet and other things so yeah it's not like a perfect linear your line but overall as you continue this journey your LDL um um your your triglycerides should continue to drop and your HDL should overall continue to go up but yeah it might not be a perfectly straight line please I'd like know how you became interested in thisp of research yeah so um so how I became interested um actually uh uh uh partially by meeting uh Dave and uh other people uh Spencer nadolski and Nick norwitz and others uh in this field but it's a it's a problem my face I'm a preventive cardiologist so I see these patients in my practice I'm in Southern California um shouldn't have been that far of flight but seemed to take forever but um um it's supposed to be 40 something minutes but um anyway um so um I became interested because I have patients like this I have patients who come to see me who have very high ldls but they look great they're thin they have they have other no other risk factors for heart disease and should they be on lifelong stattin should I tell them to quit the keto diet and go back to something more moderate because they're having this LDL increase or is this LDL increase okay and the literature is pretty scarce right we don't have good data so I was just trying to answer a clinical question and I think we're starting to get those answers now again thank you to the citizen Science [Applause] Foundation people seem to be asking general questions an expert in CAC scores um there's been some controversy in sessions today about scores disappearing in fact m is red7 and mys you help understand what's going CAC only accurate yeah so so we we we think of coronary calcium as somewhat of scar tissue that it embeds itself in the artery and it probably will never go from 247 to zero but we have seen fluctuations in both directions however we have seen low scores early calcifications go down and I think we're still learning a little bit about different interventions and what happens to the coronary calcium so what we generally tell people is our goal if you have a high calcium score which means you have plaque in your coronary arteries is to at least keep it stable we don't want it going up if it goes down mildly that's a win but we don't always see uh a reduction but at least holding the line is great if it keeps going up that means you're still laying down plaque in the coronaries and that's a problem so yeah so why don't we just discard the lipid hypothesis and I think we have to remember that the one thing that I think everybody at least almost everybody in cardiology believes is that if you have heart disease and you treat LDL regardless of where you start or at least you use drugs that have been proven to be beneficial there's very unanimous or very uh uh very similar data across many different data sets and it's not just from Big Pharma here in the US there are data sets and studies that have been done around the world Australia did a very large trial um Europe did two large trials Japan did a trial China has a trial us has a number of Trials so I still believe that if you have heart disease coronary artery disease LDL is a target to reduce not to say that it's the cause of the heart disease so I think you're there's two things there right the lipid hypothesis says LDL automatically causes more heart disease and I I don't think that's true and that's why I showed you that familial hyperlipidemia study 11,000 patients from Europe 11,000 patients mean age 62 years old who for 62 years had ldls above 193 and half of them more than half never developed heart disease but once they have heart disease LDL is our best Target of Therapies so it's not our best predictor of who's going to develop therapy but it's still a good treatment Target once you have therap once you have heart disease and I still believe in if people come to me and they have a heart attack or a stroke or a lot of coronary calcium or or blockages I still believe that they would benefit from a Statin therapy not because of their Baseline LDL but because seems like at that point once you have disease lowering LDL or at least using drugs that lower LDL have a beneficial outcome you live longer you have less inflammation and and at least the longer term studies suggest you might have less cancer as well by being on some of these drugs so we're still learning but I think that's the difference between LDL is always bad and LDL should be treated in some cases at least that's how I see it are questions please yeah so the Matched analysis is being done right now where where anal izing it now to get the true oh the M house be this to be published any day any day I apologize I was hoping it would be published by now Dave and I were told by the Journal that it should be out very very quickly the abstract that I presented is supposed to be out in metabolism they said it should already be out the journal metabolism I haven't seen it yet and the the manuscript of this matched analysis is accepted in a journal but it hasn't been published online yet but I think any day now and and I'll make sure that as soon as I see either one of those the abstract or the paper Dave will be the first to know and the citizen Science Foundation will be the second to know uh I'm sure I'm sure it won't take him long to tweet that out or or x that out or what yeah what do we call it now Xing it out instead of tweeting it out or is it a yeah you're Crossing it out I don't know anyway we'll make sure it gets out the minute we have it we'll get it out to everybody I promise yeah I apologize for the delay but the publication process is just out of everybody's hands there's no way to totally control that we've been trying to expedite that and hopefully we'll have it soon yep yep so yes absolutely so I believe in I I I like low carb I I'm a big believer in it I'm not quite uh as good as Dave at being uh uh uh going into ketosis but I believe low carb is a great diet because I think carbohydrates contribute to triglycerides and cont contribute to storage of fat and I don't think they're they're healthy they cause inflammation which is probably bad so I do if they have coronary artery disease so now they're no longer metabolically healthy I do try to put them on a Statin um because I believe that that's going to benefit them I've seen it with my own trials um and I do very comfortably continue their their low carb uh high protein diets uh I'm fine with that yep yes yeah I have not done that randomized trial yet but uh we will definitely put that in the queue for for a trial um yes so some popular people Cardiology talk about as way to thaten how would you resp yep so so the genetics do show us that overall there is a trend for or LDL cholesterol high LDL cholesterol or apob the bad apob B is bad so the bad cholesterol is associated genetically with more heart disease but it's a weak Association which means it's not in everybody and I think there's what we would say incomplete uh um expression so some people as I showed you even in that familial hyper lipidemic study some people had a lot of disease they had familial hypercholesterolemia they had a lot of heart disease and they need to be treated 6,000 out of 11,000 had no heart disease and I'd be very comfortable and in my practice every day for even FH I tell them your score is zero you don't have plaque you're not susceptible personally melan genetics say as a population you're susceptible but that doesn't translate to the individual so I believe in personalized medicine and i' believe it in this trial too if I saw a patient just independent of this study but if I saw a patient who came in and and I did a CT CU they were on a keto diet and their LDL was 250 or 300 or 350 and I saw a lot of plaque I would still TR try to convince them they can continue the keto diet but I would try to convince them to go on a stattin to to to help us treat that underlying plaque because there might be other factors remember cholesterol is one risk factor we have diabetes we have high blood pressure we have smoking we have other genetics right you have family history right your mom your dad your brother your sister had a heart attack we don't even know what those genes are yet that's not LDL genes that's a different genetic predisposition those are the people we need to think about please well so yes so um not necessarily true I think some people have cornic disease and now are metabolically healthy because they're doing all the right things they might have been metabolically unhealthy at one point to develop heart disease and that might be true in this study as well right we took people five years ago but they might have had heart disease and the reason they went on the ketogenic diet is because they had plaque in their coronaries they didn't know it maybe but but because they had a predisposition for heart disease and they were worried about about heart disease and they went on this diet so they might have started with disease think about a there's a runner named Jim fix right so Jim fix uh Fit for Life so 52 years old terrible coronary disease overweight metabolically unhealthy started running did great he had a he looked wonderful he was running he was thin he lost a lot of weight ultimately he did still succumb to heart disease but he was metabolically healthy unfortunately the damage was already done so you know metabolically healthy as a point in time I think um I think the cumulative benefit or harm that you might suffer we have to look back cuz some of us didn't have the best diets in childhood things that we couldn't control right our mom or dad might have been feeding us you know more trips to McDonald's than other kids and we might have been building up some plaque and not been metabolically healthy early on and now we are so I think it's a it's a point in time and that's why I think it all has to be put into context but but I think to me at least my first impression and I told this to Dave I was very surprised to see so many people with no plaque at all I mean a lot of people had no plaque it wasn't like it wasn't like we were just kind of comparable to Miami Heart the average the median calcium score the middle person halfway through the study the 50th person in the trial had a score of zero had no plaque in their coronaries had no segments involved had all zeros so it was at least 50% by definition 50% of the patients in this cohort had no plaque and no evidence of plaque whatsoever so we might see two different groups evolved from this we might see those people who have disease maybe they had disease earlier in life and they weren't metabolically healthy their whole life and they're going to progress and we need to look at those patients differently and there'll be some of these patients that maybe can go on forever and and not have to worry about this LDL and I think the CT scan or another way of looking into the coronaries is going to be very helpful for an individual to figure out what's the state of my coronaries given this given this disease we're gonna have to make that the last question I just I would like to ask a favor for all of you I hope you recognize as I have that and this has been 5 years in the running we we first started talking to Dr budoff in 2019 and I don't know if you see it as clearly as I do how much of an exceptional scientist he is would you mind giving him an Applause on our behalf for getting this research thank you and ju thank you very much and just for the record I try to be on time I'm I'm actually not a tardy person usually so I do apologize again but thank you and Dave thank you for making this a reality you did all the heavy lifting here

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: GJ6Xch1a_Wo (https://youtu.be/GJ6Xch1a_Wo) ===

all right everyone you ready to welcome our panel you've already heard Dr William Cromwell we also have cardiologist Brett and have I been saying this wrong the whole time I kept seeing Brett Shear is it sure okay so correct my priority I call worse and of course cardiologist Dr nadir Ali please welcome your panel now I have some questions to start us off but then I'll also be taking some questions from the audience so this is for all three of you and there's no wrong answer will research of lean mass hyperresponders contribute significantly to our understanding of card vascular disease let's start with you Bill maybe I shouldn't have sat [Laughter] here well I think the short answer is yes and then you know build that out um any unique patient population that has not been systematically studied is an opportunity to learn something so one of my principles is all data is informative um we have a disease model and the model anticipates certain things the usual model is punitive risk factors are problematic due to how high they are and how long they stay that way that's that's a model it's generally correct so taken at face value L Mass Hy hyperresponders have a phenotype which appears punitive but it hasn't been present since birth so it's of a lesser duration for one thing and secondly given my talk you might believe that there are mitigating factors that can buffer the impact of a punitive risk factor metabolic health for example so is it known what it would look like with respect to how quickly does AOS sclerosis either develop or progress in light of the physiology which is lean mass hyperresponders um that's something we need to know more about I think it will teach us something it can teach us that for various reasons they behave as expected or they don't behave as expected and that's a an important learning and then from that we have to unpack that to understand why so I think that's that's a very reasonable way to look for information what it is not is dismissive I am not dismissing the fact that high LDL or apob is punitive I believe that to be true um I I have stated on many occasions in the absence of data to the contrary my bias is that high apob carries with it attendant risk that doesn't mean however I know exactly what that attendant risk is therefore I'm open to being taught the nuances of that population so I think two things can be true simultaneously you can be worried about a high apob and what it does you can also be receptive to the idea that individuals for various reasons may not have the same disease Behavior at the same apob and therefore we we have to just acknowledge that and be able to give people an Eyes Wide Open view of of what this could mean and then they're going to make decisions as to how they want to move forward I'm not quite sure how to follow that such a reasonable and thoughtful and detailed answer so again my short answer is is yes um because when when you have a a world of data people like to say the data show well who is that data in that data is in the general public and if you look around at the general public you don't want to be the general public right most people in this room are not the General Public so to say does this data apply to me is a question we have not asked and have not answered so absolutely I think it's going to contribute because yes we can say apob is a risk factor I believe apob is a risk factor but to say it's a risk factor tells me nothing I want to know how much of a risk factor and where in the hierarchy of risk factors does it sit and I think we're learning that metabolic health is a tremendously high risk factor and apob is likely lower but where is that and how do I apply that to an individual so any subset of populations that we can learn that in I think is very uh very informative now you could say all right but do we need to study every you know redhead person born in March in the third week of March like we haven't studied that person well there's no reason to think that that person would be any different but with ketosis when you change your body's physiology when you absolutely improve your metabolic Health there is strong reason to believe that that population will act differently so yes I think we need to study that and I'm glad we are and I think it will inform clinical practice dear so after those two very thoughtful answers uh I'm a little concerned that I'm going to be coming out as abrasive I think that uh the lean Mars hyperresponders are going going to create a significant paradigm shift and not just for themselves but probably for the rest of the low Carvers because I come from a background in which I'm a clinician and I see over a 100 patients per week and most of the patients that are gravitating towards my practice are people who are on a low carb diet or a carnivore diet or some sort of variation of this and I think that the LDL hypothesis is subject to group think and the association and the causality with conary arra disease is very nebulous and it falls apart when you dissect it out completely because there is in my practice there is no real population that I come across who does not improve metabol who who improve metabolically in other words they adopt a different lifestyle of fasting low carb exercise there are some individual variations in terms of lipotoxicity that I can get into differently but in almost all of these people as their metabolic markers improve which means as the triglyceride goes down as their HDL goes up as their insulin markers improve as their inflammation goes down invariably the LDL goes up and the problem with the LDL hypothesis is that is it is invested with billions and Bill billions of dollars conflict of interest group think the data is never properly being evaluated by Third parties there is a lot of conflicting data about dropping LDL by 70% and not getting any mortality benefit in 28,000 patients so I find it very hard to believe that and I'm not using epob because sometimes you can have epob because of high vldl and high triglycerides but I'm specifically talking about LDL and when you look at the LDL itself it has many many beneficial functions in the human body so to say that there is a paradox in other words you're improving metabolically and there is this one biomarker in you that's going to cause problem is quite problematic with me so I think that what Dave is doing with his uh lean mass hyperresponders is not just going to help people who are lean mass hyperresponders but it's going to help the rest of the population and perhaps dismantle this hypothesis and perhaps we going to be less medication oriented [Applause] so I'm going to add a little bit to your response and change my aperture and my focus a little bit so part of my talk was opening the aperture right some of the challenges in data are the way in which trials are performed in the way that data are acquired for example the 4A study that you referenced with 27,000 individuals in which uh folks had coronary disease and risk factors half were on a Statin and placebo half for Statin and evolab ratham the difference in LDL response was 92 median for the Statin placebo group in 26 for the uh evolocumab Statin group that's a huge difference in LDL cholesterol the study ran for 26 months which is a very short period of time because it was an event-driven trial which means that there were a certain number of events that had to occur in order for the trial to stop so that's a limitation in the study execution and design what did we learn in 26 months and is that broadly applicable to a much longer exposure time we don't know so the absence of a mortality benefit over 26 months is one reference point but it doesn't necessarily teach me the rest of the story what would that have been if at all different over a 4-year fiveyear longer period of time and so as we're looking to data to inform us some of the challenges are the way in which data are executed and the way that data are acquired and so those types of data I think are best put into a time uh dependent Matrix and we say okay over this period of time this is what we learned and because there is no great experiment of nature other than genetics that you know kind of give us a long-term visibility we we have Snippets you know little pictures it's like a mosaic and we got a picture here a picture here a picture here and it's a mosaic and we're trying to put the mosaic together as best we can knowing it's an imperfect exercise right so I I think that's part of of our challenge the other part of the challenge is mortality as an outcome as I indicated is a very interesting and unique thing um proximal to that would be do plaques get bigger or smaller if we marketly decrease uh LDL and the answer is pretty straightforward pretty clear uh lowering LDL and B will stabilize plaques it will regress plaques it will decrease the formation of new plaques it affects the natural history of the disease now left to your imagination is whether that translates into a specific outcome benefit or mortality benefit so this becomes part of the dynamic as well and when I'm seeing an individual and we're wanting to do the right metabolic things which absolutely is correct one of the things that that I give them as a visual is you've got to find fire the fire of AOS sclerosis don't feed the fire you can pour gasoline on the fire smoking bad idea don't pour gas on the fire right um You can not put wood on the fire apop it it will begin to die down but not feeding a fire isn't the same as putting a fire out and you can put a fire out right those those are some metabolic things you can put a fire out but you don't want to put wood on a fire necessarily you don't put gas on a fire necessarily so this becomes a very interesting conversation which can be informed by by different observations some of which um as I said are kind of limited to the way the data were collected and and brought to us can I respond you so uh I know I want it to come out as nuanced and and collegial and stuff like that and I don't wanted to come out as entertainment especially after what Nick norit pointed out yesterday but a few things about the fer trial need to be challenged number one is that just think about it I mean it's it's common sense if you take 28,000 patients and yeah you study them for 26 months or whatever and you drop the LDL to about 27 millgram per deciliter which is like pretty low it's very low and you don't get a mortality benefit at that point would't you say that that's a ridiculous magnitude of benefit that you're looking for that it's so small that you need thousands and thousands of patients to see that difference I mean it's just a even a ridiculous question to ask in my mind just imagine the second thing is that these uh clinical trials are often done in such a way that they are stopped the minute that there is a benefit of any kind so that the pharmaceutical company can go on and Market that drug and tout it from the rooftops so that's another point the the trial should be stopped only for safety reasons never for improvement in either non-fatal or fatal outcomes because that's how the trials are done and that's the right way to do the trials so I would say that the whole field is clouded by the fact that statistics are used to hide the magnitude of mortality benefit through relative risk reduction if you look at Absolute risk reduction the Mortal mortality benefit is so low that you would say hey is this really worth my while to do this uh kind of intervention and finally there is no incentive in any of these trials to properly look at all the side effects that these drugs are causing in terms of myopathy in terms of increase in diabetes in terms of erectile dysfunction in terms of cognitive and memory issues it's these side effects are looked basically in a fashion in which they may not actually evaluate them properly so the study design itself is weighted towards trying to find benefit of that drug so you when you evaluate these studies with the proper nuance on you see that they fall apart you see that the emperor does not really have any clothes I want to give a great go ahead yeah I I think you're absolutely right about a lot about the study design um and that's very important to recognize when you interpret these studies and and you know as we've heard so much about relative risk versus absolute risk a 30% reduction in heart attacks could be a half of a percentage absolute reduction but it's not nothing and and and as you said in your talk Bill think about your best life and and what is having a heart attack or a stroke mean to achieving that best life so although ALC Call's mortality is very important so is heart attacks and strokes we don't want to diminish that so the question becomes at what cost right if the intervention was something that made you stronger made you feel better made you think better gave you more energy then of course we would want to have that intervention if the intervention is something that makes you weaker makes you ache more makes you more metabolic unhealthy then yes you have to be cautious about that risk benefit analysis and it's different for every person so to say across the board that we shouldn't be lowering apob because of these potential risks I would argue is the same thing as a doctor saying we shouldn't start someone on keto because of what could happen to your LDL right it's it's not an AC cross theboard blanket statement but it's we have the tools in our toolkit and let's assess them individually for that risk benefit analysis to sit down with the patient and say you know in your situation the way the data has played out there we may not make you live any longer but we may reduce your risk of a heart attack or stroke by x per and we may have risks of X percent and it's exhausting to think about it's exhausting to have that conversation with every patient but that's the way medicine should be practiced and it's it is difficult to take the data and just say yep now we know it it doesn't work that way because of the caveats you talked about because of the way the trials are structured because of the outcomes and I think we do ourselves a disservice if we try and make it more of a blanket statement um rather than saying look we just have to take this information and how it informs us for each individual which is not how medicine is practiced because you've got 10 minutes with a patient because you have to follow these guidelines because the guidelines apply to everybody as if they're the same and and that's the problem and I I wish I had a solution for it but um that's that's why we're having conferences that's why we're having discussions that's why we're trying to educate people about this so I'm enjoying the conversation because I think these are the the you know kind of parts of the conversation that we have to wrestle with uh now as a clinical trialist as a guy who lives in this space um my view of of clinical trials is informed by some additional things um what's interesting is that I can tell you absolutely that the most important thing in clinical trials is patient safety and patient choice the way clinical trials are performed is that people through informed consent can choose to be in a trial they can choose to drop out of a trial at any moment in time so it is not the case that people are drafted put in jail and at the end of it you know you must stay in this trial that that's one thing uh patient safety I I can tell you that when we are doing clinical trials in the discovery process of a medication uh there is a bending over backwards to capture Adverse Events which may or may not have anything to do with the uh the particular intervention so quite a bit of safety data is is gleaned as things are going along the postm marketing phase where you're getting into these clinical trials and populations that's a different exercise right that's a different type of trial and and for that reason it becomes challenging uh the the two additional points of information I'll put out there to to balance the conversation is one is the way you design a study as you say can be very important anybody remember the 4S trial the Scandinavian symos Statin survival study a study of individuals with coronary disease and an LDL cholesterol of 190 randomized to receive simvastatin zokor versus placebo empowered to be a mortality study what does that mean it was actually conducted as a mortality study the study would not end until a minimum of 444 people died it was not powered to be a composite event endpoint so the five component ma heart attack stroke uh hospitalization for unstable angino revascularization cardiovascular death all of those things together as an endpoint can shorten your trial absolutely right and there's the problem you don't get visibility to the individual constituents unless you set up the study to be a mortality study and would def Forest show us that there was a mortality benefit in the group treated versus placebo so you can construct trials unfortunately they're not done that often so that's our problem the the other thing that's interesting is going back to the idea that things can drive mortality different than events look at the glp1 data the glp1 data shows mortality benefit in a four to fiveyear time frame but not a reduction in non-fatal events and what are gp1 drugs doing they're addressing metabolic vulnerability and so we're learning from those data as well so if you really want to improve mortality from the data I presented from glp1 data from the limitations of LDL lowering data I would not represent to individuals that I have a strong feeling that LDL lowering in this time frame is going to give mortality benefit I think that metabolic health is going to be driving that risk and we're getting an insight into therapies that are metabolically tuned that can give a mortality benefit and so we keep our eyes open to to continue to learn and kind of round out the edges and the limitations we'll do we'll do one more response and then I should take the question from the audience so go ahead n yeah so uh Dr Cromwell you're so thoughtful and kind and and humble and I'm abrasive and challenging and and and so I I I apologize for that but I have to respond to some of these things now uh clinical uh research trial design is uh there is a sponsor who hires all the side investigators at different uh hospitals and I have been in clinical trial design for 10 years in my previous life they hire the clinical the Central adjudicating Committee that looks at all the data that collects all the data from the side investigators they also hire the data safety and monitoring committee they also pay money to the FDA so in other words the entire people are are biased and conflicted towards making the clinical trial look successful and we say yeah this is for patients but who has the patients interests in here because the doctor is paid by the industry the investigator is paid by the industry the clinical the Central adjudicating Committee is also paid by the industry the people who are supposed to monitor the safety of the data is also paid by the industry the FDA is also paid by the industry so tell me who in this group has the patient interest okay now one other aspect about the forest trial the forest the SC the Scandinavian trial the sast Staten trial done in 1994 was done completely under the offices of MC MC had ghost writers bio bio statisticians there was no third- party Insight or input into this trial and the mortality benefit that they reported now if you really truly break it down if you treated 100 patients who already had some kind of a cardiac event like either a bypass or a stent or a previous Mi for a 100 people that were treated the mortality benefit was 0.6% per year roughly a little over 3% over 5 years so it would have been very honorable for M to come out and say we took these patients if you if hundreds of these patients are treated for one year 100 treated for one year the benefit is 0.6% in terms of mortality benefit that would have been very honorable but what they came out and said is that your benefit in uh death reduction is about 25 or 30% some relative risk reduction so so they are clouding the data from relative risk reduction if a group of lean mass hyperresponders or anybody on low carb diod is offered saying that hey look you're going to take these drug for 30 years and you may have cognitive decline you may have myopathy you may become a diabetic and we should discuss cognitive decline if somebody asks that question in a different format and by the way your mortality benefit is only like 6% per year for 100 people treated you might say look I don't want this drug but none of this is ever discussed with patients when these drugs are started they said hey lowering LDL is good take this drug end of story so I think that Physicians are not doing informed consent and they think that hey to do an informed consent it takes a lot of time I've been doing it for 15 years in my practice and I know it does not take that much time we're going to we're going to take some questions from the audience two two important things though before we start taking questions uh I am the filter so please don't make it long- winded make it short and concise two be aware that there's no personal medical advice being provided on the stage at all so if you can try to ask it in a generalized way don't give like a specific case um yes uh oh Dr Diamond yeah go ahead so the drugs that l only yeah you want to do that uh I was going to have them repeat back your question so it could be heard I I can I can give it a shot and okay you can tell me if I get it right okay so the observation was that number one U LDL lowering drugs have a variety of effects pleotropic effects and that is absolutely true so LDL reduction is part of a larger uh set of effects both favorable and unfavorable that's number one number two um the absolute risk changes if you're looking at these within the context of studies is a small number compared to to a relative risk that many people use um and number three is there are of Target effects or adverse effects that also need to be part of the conversation so did I get that part right okay good I want to make sure I properly represented that I think that's a a great set of observations and part of our challenge is what we have in our tool chest starting with therapeutic lifestyle and comorbidity management that should always in my opinion be a big part of the opportunity to help people uh I tell people in my practice that medications are mops and brooms we use them to clean up whatever mess is left over yeah we don't we don't start with them as this have I got something for you right if if net net that's a conversation at the end of the day I hope that that's what we're doing right um that's number one number two is we we also have not talked about some of the limitations of using LDL cholesterol As the metric for trying to gauge success um there is data that we published some time ago looking in a real world cohort of individuals with high risk who were manage to either a low LDL cholesterol or a low particle number and the question is what was the number needed to treat to prevent an event so for those of you who may not know absolute risk is the absolute number of differences between group one and two one divided by absolute risk is how many people do you have to treat to prevent one potential bad thing from happening so nnt is a good metric to get a better quality than just a relative risk and as you point out in Staten trials the number needed to treat can range from 12 to over 200 it can be a crazy high number and so we also need to take that into consideration right because if you're treating people with a number need to treat of 200 You could argue I'm not so sure that's a great idea especially if there is potential issues of things like increased glycemia myalgia other adverse effects so that has to be balanced right so with that known um what were the number needed to treat for individuals who on the one hand have an LDL cholesterol in the mid 70s that's the usual Care Group and individuals who have an LDL cholesterol also in the mid 70s but a low particle number that went down from 1300 to under a th000 the number needed to treat at 36 months was 24 you only have to treat 24 people to get additional event reduction by targeting the metric of atherogenic particle number which is much better associated with benefit than just ldal cholesterol so one of the ways to try to refresh the conversation and and know you know what's more likely to benefit somebody it's more likely to benefit somebody if they actually attain a lower number of punitive particles and as you say lpla is one of those things that improved in forier and that was a discriminator of benefit individuals who did not get an LPA reduction did not have a benefit compared to those who did that is absolutely correct and so the mixed metaphor that we have these drugs that are small molecules and go all over the body and do all sorts of things is challenging uh and and what do we have in our tool chest that might be LDL Centric very few things we have a for P you I can plug you into machine that binds your APO containing lipoproteins and returns your blood to you but it's not just lowering LDL it's lowering all apop containing lipoproteins and so if there's a benefit there could it be lpla could it be apob as a pool is it just LDL particles unclear and these are and like I said these are great conversations to have because these are the data that we wrestle with and as I hope I I indicated in my talk mortality can be a outcome that isn't so driven by risk factors but driven by metabolic milu in which case we we need to rightly reference that and do something with it and I think it might be unfair to expect mortality benefit if those risk factors aren't driving the mortality risk in the first place BR uh yeah I guess just the general response would be if if you're the the ACC and you want to say if we treat a million people with stattin and we can reduce 20 heart attacks we can prevent 20 heart attacks over five years or sorry 20,000 heart attacks over five years and a million people that's a huge victory for the ACC looking at the population if you're a doctor staring at one patient across the table from you it is a completely different discussion um and and I think drug companies you know medical institutions and individual doctors think very differently or should think very differently and maybe don't uh often enough uh next question oh go ahead um um I'm curious if you have the potential to look at serum lipopolysaccharide you mentioned the difference in two patients with sepsis and their outcomes and um serum lipopolysaccharides and endotoxin that endotoxin is used in animal models of diabetes Parkinson's depression and goes back to the gut and I think that might actually be the missing piece of the puzzle is this building load as we age of endotoxin in the blood and if you have access to um serum that you could look at I think you might add that to your equation and it might be an interesting piece of the puzzle and you could look at the work of Dr Isaac Ginsburg on uh a body of work around sepsis and post infectious sea of bacteri olysis so I don't know if I can specifically answer your question but lipop poly cytis an inflammation marker if it's high that you know that there are bacterial products in your bloodstream but one of the facts that is often overlooked is the lipoproteins that we have especially the LDL is specifically designed to neutralize the lipopolysaccharide so that's one part that has not been investigated very widely and there is no incentive because there are $1 199 billion dollar standing between investigating that and finding out whether that's actually true actually I'm going to I'm going to take a little bit of moderator privilege here uh because this is actually a subject that I'm very interested in and my good friend and colleague Siobhan Huggins who was looking into a lot of immune response as it relates back to lipids found a mouse study that I still to this day remember very distinctly hopefully I didn't misquote anything they basically had wild type mice against what are known as knockout mice which is really just another way of saying that they made them uh have familial hypercholesterolemia right so the knockout mice had sky high levels of apob and they applied the same bolus of lipopolysaccharides to both groups and in the wild type uh I believe it was 20 total 19 of the 20 had died from that buus of lipop polysac so just a 5% survival and of the hypolipidemic mice does anyone want to guess what percentage survived that 100% 100% all of them actually survived now I've got to give the normal caveat this is a rodent model I don't know if it's been reproduced but it was one of those examples where I really for the first time was getting really interested in the potential of the innate immune response being actually very closely related to apob lipoproteins but again as always got to caveat it's theoretical all right next question can I can I just say so yeah the there is a YouTube video by me which is called functions of LDL cholesterol that describes the exact study that Dave was pointing out uh back there yes go ahead and take the mic over to her hi at what LDL number does lipid uh further testing warrant in a metabolic um syndrome patient and a non-metabolic syndrome patient so if I heard the question is there an LDL cholesterol number which is associated with metabol syndrome is that what you asked no no when do you further test for APO if you have metabolic syndrome and if you don't have metabolic syr so we published these data along with many others uh it would not surprise you that if you look at metabolic syndrome it is a categorical definition three or more of five punitive uh categorical variables and if you have three or more you have metabolic syndrome in the paper that we published um you'll see that going from 0 to 1 to two to three to four to five in men and women LDL cholesterol plateaus and it is not increasing but apov or LDL particle number continues to increase as you increase the number of features of metabolic syndrome so there is a significant discordance between a high apob or particle number and a relatively unremarkable LDL cholesterol as people become more insulin resistant as they acquire more features of the metabolic syndrome so the short answer is I check apob in all those individuals because I don't know what their number of apob containing lipoproteins is in any LDL cholesterol because the amount of cholesterol per particle is going down physiologically as insulin resistance worsens as people transition to a higher number of metabolic syndrome categorical variables so it is unreliable LDL cholesterol is an unreliable measure of either LDL particle number or atherogenic particle number in that population if you wanted to round number 75% of metabolic syndrome people are discordant between particle number and LDL cholesterol and and able B is a 8 test or something right like so why not get it in everybody and it's just that doctors unfortunately are have been just brought up in this LDL Paradigm so don't think about it enough and and you answer that very well I would just add that when we talk about you know definitions of metabolic syndrome triglycerides of 150 does that mean triglycerides of 140 are perfectly fine of course not right so that's why I wouldn't rely on just those definitions and like you said check in everybody uh he's yeah right there go and stand stand so it's easier for him to find you so thank you very much I I have heard all the presentations of all of you guys and um amazing talks but I'm an infectious disease doctor and a wound care doctor and an obesity medicine doctor I struggle with that question why did my covid patient one person survive one person did not and I did not get covid to this day but I took a vaccine but that's a different story now the question is regarding arguments of LDL or not we know that per se it is not what we should focus on but um I tend most mostly to go towards NAD because number one I I think we're going to need the questions to be pretty straight the question is in the in the mass mindset medicine and how can an infectious disease outcomes be determined just by uh thinking towards one focused LDL thinking when LDL molecule is going there to fight and help the patient and that that that kind of is very hard when when you go and kind of kill the LDL it's like killing the firefighter how can an infectious disease outcomes be kind of correlated so um one of the things I tried to do with my talk is to indicate that I don't think that apob b is the end all Beall with respect to mortality I don't think it's the end all be all with respect to specific questions such as you raise I think it is is part of the bigger picture and trying to find Its Right space in the bigger picture as you just did requires context so I I do not want to leave people with the impression that tell me your apob and I'll tell you everything you need to know or I need to get your apob to a specific place and that's going to uniformly present a benefit especially for mortality I don't know that to be true um we did do an interesting amount of work in Co and long Co and I can tell you inflammation was an interesting uh significant marker of individuals with both mortality and long covid and as I showed you the inflammatory vulnerability index and work with Cornell was particularly uh impactful in assessing individuals mortality risk and long covid risk um so there are other factors and and I appreciate you uh bringing up the conundrum and again I would say that a b needs to be put into context and I would not try to make that the end all be all good oh oh sorry yeah I was just going to add if I understand the question it was it was partly like H how do we rationalize LDL having a beneficial effect um and trying to lowering it so I think that's something that's not discussed enough that LDL exists for a reason right it's been demonized and it's bad cholesterol we just need to lower it but it has a purpose now what's interesting is when you if you can look at some of these older trials and see a a reduction in cardiovascular mortality but not all cause mortality the question becomes well does that mean it raises the risk of death from other reasons to not balance out but when you look at them individually for cancer and infection and neurodegenerative diseases no one really stands out there might be a trial with a small blip here and a small blip there but when you look at all of them no one Rises to the top to say yes there's definitely an increased risk of infectious mortality that counteracts the cardiovascular mortality but the problem is the studies aren't meant to look at that that's all sort of post talk analysis looking at the data so it is something that I think we need to investigate more because it's an uncomfortable question that medicine doesn't want to confront and and that is hard to answer I think I I agree with I think that if you put LDL on a pedestal that it is the thing to cause uh uh I mean to dampen inflammation and protect you from infections I think you are taking it too far so we should concede that it does do that but it it may not be the major factor hi um ascvd is a multifactor disease that's very very clear and that's part of the problem we all look at LDL and our doctors have a simple number yet we all have calculators we've used Mesa calculators asbd calculators mvx these are all multivariate solutions when we get the earthquake that's going to come out of lmhr changing the stage how do we get medicine to start to use these more complex multifactorial calculators to help us actually fix the risk problem so I'm I'm going to again disclose my affiliation with Precision Health reports before I answer that question right because I think the purpose that we had in starting Precision Health reports was to not become monofocal on such things as a major risk factor or calculators we want to go in a broader sense of saying let the data inform us the principles that I had in my talk look broadly at the individual uh in terms of their comorbidities Biometrics biomarkers aortic State Etc we need to have that broader conversation the guidelines are trying in in a way to have that conversation I don't know that the clinicians are operationalizing that 10 significant degree I think we are creatures of habit I think we are time constrained I think we have practice patterns that we have adopted and trying to change those is very very difficult no matter what the data look like and how compelling they may be yeah I think that's well said and you know if you look at the guidelines back in 2018 it added calcium scoring as a reason to actually not give a Statin which is like Earth shattering for a clinical guideline but how is that filtered into practice I'd say pretty poorly yeah and and in this room specifically and and Dave and others are leading the charge I I think broad thinking about individuals and integrating important you know piece of information such as what's the status of your vessels helps to temper this enthusiasm for I've got a pill for that why do you have a pill for that what are we treating what's wrong with the patient um it can't be the case that every everybody with an abnormal biomarker goes home with a prescription we've got to do better than that and and that's what I think is the the basis of your question how do we do better than that stand up sorry question for Dr Cromwell I just want to move back to mvx that you presented I'm curious why insulin was not a factor there at all because our understanding at least my understanding is insulin is a big big parameter just curious so it's a good question um remember the Genesis of mvx was to answer a question of relationship of metabolic and inflammatory vulnerability and to extend observations that had been made in chronic kidney disease and other chronic diseases that uh representations of metabolic and inflammatory vulnerability had an association so we were specifically seeking to better understand those observations and use biomarkers available to us to extend that so within the context of the way the data were performed they are what you have now the next level data could be and how does that play in the sandbox of insulin resistance how does that play in the sandbox when we have other biomarkers which are meaningfully important those are great questions and those are new data that need to be generated I don't know the answer to that I think it's an important observation and it's another example of we're not done yet we're still learning we're on a journey um I I did in in Twitter of all places uh post uh what I thought was a way to ask that type of question and that was looking at a study out of upen uh in which apob and hom IR were available with carier calcium score as the outcome of interest and what it showed was that each of them in multivariant models had a unique Association that apob survived as uniquely important after adjusting for home IR and home IR continue to be significantly productive after adjusting for apob and then when you put them in models together each added to the other so what that would tell me is that insulin resistance is driving a significant Disease Association which cannot be captured by apob and likewise apob is giving visibility to a Disease Association that is not completely captured by H ir and so that begins again to build the idea there are multiple things that are important and I think you know we we should be open to those and since it was on Twitter I'm sure you only got very reasonable and respectful and educated responses right I I'm still learning uh you right there yep stand up perfect so if we have a circumstance where lying produces benefit for the liar you're going to find some quantity of liars um and since Pharma companies and researchers have been caught fabricating data so um my question is what percentage of the extent literature is a lie um how do you know and if we don't know how do we make informed decisions [Applause] I love the questions that they can't answer quickly that's that's a good question you know what I'll just answer that by saying we need more philanthropy driven sponsored research the answer to that is citizen Science Foundation goai you know you're not going to get any of these answers is about LDL from top down it's going to be a Grassroots effort because you as a consumer will have to use logic your own health how you feel uh and like Nick norit said there's an evening of the playing field knowledge is no longer the prerogative of Physicians of scientists every one of you is a citizen scientist who can get all this [Applause] knowledge if you ask me all the Staten literature needs to be thrown out and we should start from ground zero so I'm going to Echo that we need alternate study designs such as uh you know citizen science um I I think there is a creative tension that we have to try to navigate and and that is I have sat on dsmbs when I say I've been in the research base I mean I I've been the guy who has been looking at unblinded data and saying yeah we need to do liver biopsy something not right is going on here I I've sat on those boards that said no this this study needs to be stopped because there's a tended harm uh we have seen studies come to Market tetrab first CP inhibitor had an of Target effect of increased aldosterone increased mortality so the fact that bad things happen isn't uniformly suppressed but the fact that there is a filter through which information is getting out can also be true so again this is the problem what's being filtered what's getting out how are these things being done there's sausage being made are you seeing the sausage being made uh and if you you know that there's a sausage making going on and you don't see all the steps left to your imagination is what are the steps of the sausage making right and that that becomes its own you know question mark that doesn't have an easy answer so I I appreciate the fact that that those are the conundrums we deal with and one of the ways to to try to move forward is with alternate types of study designs way back there I'm trying to I'm trying to spread the room no you're looking back you yep stand yeah there we go oh hello um what are your thoughts on Appo A1 being protective um for Appo B and why it is not routinely checked along with epop and how it might play into this thank you so I I could give you a five hour answer to that I I'll try to give you a 50c answer to that high density lipoprotein is a particle that carries cholesterol high density lipoprotein has one to four or five apoa 1s per particle there is not a one to one stochiometry between A1 and number of HDL particles number two HDL particles exist across a spectrum of different proteins on the outer surface small HDL proteome is different than large HDL proteome much of the benefit of HDL is functionally driven not quantity driven that being the case does A1 give visibility better to HDL particle number than HDL cholesterol does Apo one give visibility better to functionality than HDL cholesterol and how well does HDL particle number fit in the gap of those things those are are the nuances of trying to answer your question at the end of the day uh A1 in many cases does not carry any better predictive value than HDL cholesterol in some cases it does and the problem with any metric of HDL quantity is that there is a lack of function Beyond a certain High quantity of HDL and as you look at data which have extended into HDL cholesterol ranges higher than 120 or very high apoa1 ranges what you find is increased association with cardiovascular events and mortality because the benefit of HDL is being lost in these very high and then the reason for that is you are differentially populated with large HDL particles whose proteum is less cardioprotective so that becomes part of the fabric of trying to answer the question so uh that's a very interesting question and I'll expand and that was a pretty nuanced answer uh HDL functionality is very important and there have been trials done to increase htl which have resulted in increased mortality increased infections increase cancers it was the illuminate trial with the CP Inhibitors in which HDL went up LDL went down but the HDL was nonfunctional you will hear a lot of people saying that when you use pcsk9 Inhibitors like repatha and praluent that your HDL will go up and yes it does but when you look at basic science data that HDL is most likely nonfunctional because increasing HDL the the function of the HDL is to remove cholesterol from the periphery from dead and dying cells and then get it back to the liver and one of the ways in which it does that is by transferring the cholesterol that it has from the HDL to the LDL through a specific enzyme now when you have dramatically low LDL where is the HDL going to transfer the cholesterol to so this is aspect that has never been investigated in addition the pcsk9 Inhibitors also reduce triglycerides and you would say man you're making me look like a lean mass hyper respirer with high HDL and low triglycerides and plus I am in uh the company that medical professions want because I also have a low LDL but the lowering of triglycerides with pcsk9 Inhibitors is also doing a wrong thing because what it is doing is that it's increasing the receptor that takes the triglycerides away from from the circulation in your liver in your pancreas in your heart so it's resulting in visceral obesity so taking a PCS sk9 inhibitor has been shown in basic science experiments that you're going to have a fatty liver and a fatty pancreas and a fatty heart but yes you're going to look at your numbers and say these are fantastic but but not in human travel right there not in human trials human clinical data is not asor the data in human trials is not as perfect but there are several individuals with Gen genetic deficiency of pcsk9 so in other words you will come across individuals who make less pcsk9 so it's as if they have taken a lifelong of pcsk9 Inhibitors and when you look at these people they have a higher incidence of fatty liver fatty pancreas and diabetes Well to to get back to the HDL question real quick I guess my short answer would be we view raising HDL across the board whether we do it by nin whether we do it by a CP inhibitor or whether we do it by diet and lifestyle that it's the same and I would argue it absolutely is not and that we need to look at those individuals this is one of those times where as a moderator I'm like I wish I was on the panel back there uh sorry you've got a distance to travel we we've got somebody got oh I want that on the mic okay uh it has been uh it seems to me that serum LDL is uh a Mickey Mouse uh observable because as Dave has shown you can manipulate it up and I have done you can manipulate it up and down every 3 Days by a couple hundred points so if it's such a Mickey Mouse indicator why are we so laser focused uh not Dr Ali but the others why are we so laser focused on LDL when it may not even be a meaningful measure of anything isn't it time to spend more of our time looking at things that are more indicative I mean if I just open my eyes outside and say oh there's no sun on the planet because it's nighttime that's not a valid observation well look just because you can manipulate it doesn't make it unimportant being able to manipulate it teaches us about the the physiology of it and and think we've learned so much about how easy it is to raise up and down and how to do that that says nothing of its importance so that's that's one but that doesn't mean I'm advocating for its importance I think if if you truly listen to the message that Dr Cromwell has and that I have it's that we have to put that into perspective of the other risk factors which sounds like exactly what you're talking about and if you look at a couple recent studies that have shown you know whether it's lpir whether it's type 2 diabetes whether it's metabolic risk that those confer a greater risk than apob and LDL that doesn't mean LDL and apob confirm zero risk but it puts it in the hierarchy and I I so I think we're sort of talking the same language but I really think it's important to understand just because you can manipulate it doesn't mean it's un good medicine medicine and science as I've perceived it is stuck in this notion that there is an it and that that number is static and that and so actually my question more is and I'd like to maybe start with Dr nadir um what do what what is your hope your hopeful vision for medicine and science 100 years from now what what would you hope it to to look like because I'm a lay person and I keep as I learn more and more from science and medicine and from participating here that the answers are um I'm going to find them myself in in in every day that I live um I'm not being very clear but well the question is what is what is in 100 years what do you what would you like to see in a 100 years well that's a philosophical question and I'm not sure I'm qualified to answer that but I do think that if medicine continues the way it is a a typical physician encounter with a cardiologist and I cannot speak about other Specialties is like 2 to 5 minutes in the patient's office uh a number of drugs being prescribed and very little attraction about lifestyle and if that's if that's going to continue uh medicine as we know it is going to get buggy wept and and I think that really the bottom of in other words the consumer learning about this is extremely extremely important my in my view because the hups the Academia uh the associations are also heavily conflicted I mean you go to an you know is there anybody here from American Heart Association or from Staten industry or anybody any such uh because I may have to uh start funding so that I have some defense when they come after me but most of the American Heart Association programs are heavily funded by pharmaceutical industry their presence the way they dictate what kind of programs are put out uh what kinds of drugs are promoted what kind of studies get the primary sessions uh it it is mindboggling I would rather have the American Heart Association in the basement of a YMCA and not have the conflict of interest from Big Pharma you know I want I want all of you to go and look up your doctor on dollars for docks in in in Pro public and see how much they're being paid by the industry now that may have changed to Medicare now has an open sight but you would see how it influences the key opinion leaders in terms of bias bias has to be removed from medicine and I am very biased I am biased towards what I do and I'm conflicted because I prescribe low car medicine I I practice and preach low car medicine and so that is my bias and I need to declare that but the degree of bias that comes from being invested and being paid by the pharmaceutical industry is enormous people who are writing guidelines for St stattin and pcsk9 Inhibitors you would see that upwards of 70% of those authors have significant bias and until that is removed we not going to have medicine that's going to be oriented not towards drug therapy but towards Lifestyle Changes that's such a good answer about removing conflict of interest um for my vision I I I would bring out two points and and one is is um a vision where we're open to asking the hard questions which is exactly what Dave is doing and exactly why we're here right and I think we've seen by so many responses that medicine as a whole is not open to asking hard questions and that's a problem so that's one thing the other thing is is to boil it down from guidelines to individuals and you know Precision medicine is such a Hot Topic right now Aid driven Precision medicine and there's something to that but also the human nature like what what are your fears what are your dreams dreams what are your concerns what are you worried about how do you live your life like those types of individual questions being the Cornerstone of treatment and then everything else Falls around it I think that would be a pretty good vision for me so so building off yours my simple answer is if you were Sue Ramsey that's what I want to see in 100 years people who don't have to have their life cut short people who don't have the quality of their life compromised people who have eyes wide open value of new learnings we should be integrating more information not less we shouldn't be reductionistic we shouldn't be hanging our hat on a thing at the end of the day we should be doing the right thing one patient at a time we have to have shared decision conversations we have to understand what's important to our patients we have to understand what's driving the disease we have to seek to understand we have to root out root causes we need to fix what's wrong with people and be judicious with our use of medications where there's a better likelihood of benefit than risk I'm going to I'm going to interject one of uh my own questions real quick because this is probably the most common thing that I get that I believe is a tough one uh somebody will ask this to me and I give my stock answer which is I'm not a medical professional please work with your doctor so here it is somebody had a terrible lifestyle before they had a terrible Diet before they've now corrected all of that whatever diet they're on and they're killing it all of their markers are looking fantastic however their LDL has gone way up they talk to their doctor they say let me at least get a CAC I hear cac's are really good they go ahead and get a coronary artery calcification scan it's not zero it's a positive scan but they look it up and sure enough they're in the lowest say 25% for their age range they say doctor I would like to at least go for a while longer doing what I'm doing because I feel like I've corrected My Lifestyle will you at least let me go say another couple years until I get another CAC and we look then what would your advice be to that patient let's get a CT anagram that would be my advice let's get a CT andram and not related to clearly in any way but clearly is a company that can do additional analysis to the CT andram where you where you measure the actual plaque volume and you can see if it's if it's low density soft plaque or or soft plaque or calcified plaque and it gives you a much better marker to follow because a calcium score is good certainly better than nothing but if you want to say what what is the most sensitive test I can do to see if there's been any change um I think CT andram blows calcium score out of the water and now that theate you know when I started doing calcium scores 15 20 years ago the radiation dose was high you know 15 Mills 20 Mills you wouldn't want to do them in everybody now we can do them for two Miller which is not much more than a calcium score so um the only problem of course is cost money money money um but if we could somehow work a way around that I think that is the future for that patient absolutely so so Toth one is patient always has the right to call the ball it's patient's life is not my life I give recommendations patient comes up what they feel most comfortable with we have a partnership we move forward so the short answer is yes patient taught me into a lot of things because it's their life and they get to make the choice however I I would like to inform them that this disease process can be looked at in a more sensitive way and what are we going to be looking for over time and how will that information impact what you are wanting to do next right um one of the things that we know with the U lemass hyper responder Community is that there are ways that you can adjust the macros and take some of the pressure off LDL and apob so if there was a thought due to serial ctas that there's something going on that we don't like and we want to tune something uh can we tune the macros in a way that you're getting the benefit at many other levels but at the same time maybe lowering the temperature of the apob LDL response and that's meaningful potentially right so there are many ways to get there without just oh man I got to get that pill in me and and I think assessment of the individual is part of it patient choice is part of it uh but but you're going to have to follow something over time to be informed about that decision- making I think so I'm about to be 64 years of age I have an LDL of over 250 and I have a nonzero calcium score how many of you are like me okay so when we look at people like this and let's say we have you know with whatever improved our metabolic markers and we are otherwise healthy the discussion has to be an informed consent The Physician has to sit down and one of the things about informed consent that I didn't get into I talked about many other things is cognitive decline on stattin so let's talk about that now your brain has the highest amount of cholesterol compared to the rest of the body 25% of your body's cholesterol is in the brain it's 2% of your size how many of you know that the brain makes the entirety of its own cholesterol okay just very few how many cardiologists do you think they know know that the brain makes the entirety of its own cholesterol very few now the reason is that all the cholesterol that you eat all the cholesterol that the liver is making never makes it to the brain because of the bloodb brain barrier and cholesterol is integral to how your brain functions because one brain cell talks to another brain cell through cholesterol connections the neurotransmitters go through rafts that are lipid rich now do you think that stattin cross the blood brain barrier yes they do do they reduce cholesterol production in the brain yes they do does that matter has that been looked at scientifically because we are earning the stattin companies are earning in 2022 $19 billion they used to earn about 3040 billion before before their patents expired but now they earn $19 million 19 billion so that's an important question so now before you put a patient on a stattin for 30 years is it important for you to have that discussion how many of you will be willing to take a Staten after knowing that information by a show of hands I don't see any hands okay so I mean I'd like to thank Dr Cromwell because I've provoked this you know group with my answers with my questions and my answers and he's been humble and kind to me so thank you in the red shirt up front I'm going to I need to I'll step in for Dr Cromwell and and and be push back here because we talk about we can't discuss stattin benefits in relative risk we have to talk to them about absolute risk we have to do the same with the harm so if you're going to say there's a neurocognitive risk what is that absolute risk how do we quantify that for the patient because it's not enough to say there's a risk there might be but what does that mean what does that mean for the individual how do we balance that in in in the risk benefit analysis uh that's a very fair question because how do you know that okay there are two ways in which I navigate through this field number one is that there is no real data that you would get through literature because these Studies have not been done and the studies that have been done are not as good they are not as robust so you cannot rely on them but if you sit down if as a clinician you sit down and talk to these patients you would find the mental fog in your patients because I am a clinician I'm seeing a 100 patients per week I sit down and talk to them at eye level and I find the number of people with myopathy the number of people with mobility issues I find people in their 80s in a wheelchair who are on a Statin I find people who have dementia on a stattin so you cannot ignore that as a clinician you can navigate through these fields and be honest with them that you don't know all the answers so yes and I'm glad you gave me that push back so the other thing I would say is that there have been efforts made to try to wrap our arms around datam and I'll put a plugin for the National lipit Association stat and safety task force on two different occasions they have uh done Yan's work in just scouring the world literature for data regarding a variety of potential Statin adverse effects from myopathy to cognitive function Etc um so there have been efforts made to try to to put some data to the concern so that that's one point of reference is that while it's imperfect there are folks out there who are really I think representing rightly what is available for inspection number one number two um my experience is there have been individuals who I think are great historians and they have had cognitive decline on a Statin they stop the Statin they go back to being better they rechallenge the stat and they have problems again so that's kooch's postulate right if something's related you withdraw it reintroduce it you see if you can uh you know bring it back so uh the good news is that uh those types of conversation should take place you can offer them different therapies it is not necessary that they have a permanent cognitive issue you can get them off of statins on do other uh strategies and I think it's a very reasonable thing to do right uh the other challenge is because this is a mixed metaphor when we're talking about stattin Associated adverse effects we have studies like the G 3 study where individuals who were identified as Statin intolerant were randomized to receive Statin versus placebo and a third of them re challenged with no adverse effects so what's out there as perception of Statin adverse effects is real and complicated and it is related to the intensity of Statin and the dosing of Statin if you go back to the early days when we had mevacor pricol and zokor the number of adverse effects were minimal because these were low low to moderate intensity Statin started at low to moderate dosages after the miracle study we became I believe fairly Cavalier about Statin usage 80 milligrams of a torvis Statin was the starting dose we precipitated a lot of adverse effects by using that as our strategy and so another way to have this conversation with patients is to say um there is a lot of individual variability and there's also an association with the magnitude of intensity and the magnitude of dosing and there are a lot of ways to work our way around so that we don't knee-jerk into an 80 milligram of torist Statin starting point which is right where we would expect to see the potential for more rather than less effects uh Richard yeah go ahead um Dr Sher you touched on this AI where do you see where do you guys see this coming in our um healthcare because AI is INF trting every part of our life and is it going to overtake the patient doctor relationship because to me from what I understand it almost reminds me of the movie The Matrix you know where it's predicting everything just based off of markers and so it's kind of concerning I don't want AI in my medical chart but where is there a valid concern or you know where where do you see this taking over in 2013 30 years hopefully it's a great question and a impossible question to answer but I think an analogy is if you look at the the cardiovascular risk calculation right the ACC came up with this basic calculation to say here's your cardiovascular risk and we're going to plug everybody into this calculation and that's going to determine if you take a stat or not well the output is dependent on the inputs and the inputs are terrible I mean they're just really just getting the tip of the iceberg for for the inputs to try and get the outputs so with AI the question is how do you train it what are the inputs what do you what do you want it to look at and and I'm afraid the first efforts are going to be at least from my perspective the wrong things so to speak right and how do you how do you wait them and I mean my brain just explodes trying to think about hey how AI is going to even do it but you're absolutely right it cannot replace the human interaction and it cannot replace the patient who says look my parent had a stroke I had to take care of my parent for 10 years when they were debilitated I don't care I don't want that to happen to me no matter what how do you put that into an AI calculator you know you you can't you have to have that that human interaction so uh whatever AI does I hope it never replaces that as the uh one technologist on stage if you don't mind if I add a little to that I'm I'm both very excited and also very scared of just how fast and how far AI is going that said to be fair we have been using a AI in many other respects try to put this in a in a in a intervention you know drug trial form if there was an intervention for one group that turned out to extend their life by five years versus placebo that was not taking that intervention you would be very impressed and excited about it if it's something like machine learning it does provide a kind of scientific opportunity we don't have now because all of us are humans so because of that we have our own biases of our worldview that we don't even realize we're baking into our means by which we do these things and this is going to be with clinicians is going to be with with software Engineers all of us but there's a downside the dark side is when the people behind the ones that implement the AI that implement the algorithms that determine the media that we see on you know Tech platforms they have their own interests and if they're using it more as a tool as opposed to a dispassionate way of using say you know being a diagnostician then that is the downside so it's hard to say we're finding that out in real time um yes you right there Hi so I guess I'd just like to suggest that um we need more research on people who who are keto or supposedly metabolically healthy but do have heart disease so Statin trials or other risk factor trials um on people like the ones that are here who are doing all the right things but yet still have heart disease and also just comment you know there's a seems to be a belief among our community that all we have to do is go Tito and everything will go away and so um I guess I'm living proof that that doesn't always happen and I have heart disease myself and I think studies on people like me who have it even though we're not diabetic we don't have fatty liver none of that stuff is happening with us we might studies on us would um maybe shed some light on some on all all the issues so I I don't know if that's a question or a comment or mostly a comment I guess C can I actually let me let me add something to that because this is relevant to literally this conference and the citiz and Science Foundation when we were doing the lean mass hyperresponders study our challenge was to get to an IRB and say we're going to allow these people who are already non-adherent to treatment to have LDL levels you've seen our mean average of 272 understandably IRB a modern IRB who's never faced this population before would feel quite concerned about that this conference right now for the second study is already going to have more relaxed criteria than the one we've just now completed and I'm yes thank you it's and it's our way of stepping further toward the direction you're talking about I completely understand why a current IRB would have difficulty looking at folks that are choosing to be untreated particularly if they already have heart disease and allowing for what is known and considered to be a strong you know risk factor in that regard but that said this re literally This research that we're funding here today will help us at least work our way there even if it's not getting us there right away so I just wanted to let you know that and then go ahead and turn over to you go ahead yeah I mean it's it's a great point and a great question but like why does somebody with a 50-year-old with you know mild metabolic dysfunction develop significant coronary disease and another 50-year-old with mild metabolic dysfunction not develop coronary disease well I don't know the answer to that but I know I'm going to treat them very differently as patients so yes we do need research among all those different components and that's where polyenic risk scores come in and people are looking at genetics and it gets incredibly complicated so people are trying to look at it but I think from a clinical standpoint we have to realize that we can't treat everybody the same and that keto doesn't solve everything like you said it's going to improve metabolic dysfunction for a number of people but some people will continue to get cardiovascular disease and why is that and as clinicians we have to be aware of that and and realize that we can't treat people the same I think I've said that 10 times but that's what I believe so uh Dave made a good point but I just want to add to what you asked when new clinical studies are designed or even now I think the FDA the NIH all of these big entities or even Academia should demand that we should have studies that look at objective harm from these drugs like it's not just to talk about myopathy or look at cardiac I mean uh muscle enzymes but you need to look at ADP function you need to look at uh citrate ATP lies or citrate lies that me measures function of your muscles is it down it's not enough to see whether somebody has an elevation in their A1c or blood sugars they should measure sophisticated markers of insulin resistance to see how bad these drugs are on you because these things are not being done in a randomized fashion specific aspects aspects of your cognitive function should be evaluated in a very systematic manner so the public should demand the ni should demand the FDA should demand that there is so much profit coming out of these drugs that these specific markers be looked at before these drugs continue to be prescribed and uh it's espcially important for the people who are trying to do lifestyle to improve their metabolic markers okay Goode do you have any examples of where uh people with with heart heart disease have used uh keto and I mean going deep keto where you're into a topy for a long period of time and able to actually reverse some of the effects of this with your lifestyle change uh well so it depends on what you're saying by reverse so if you're talking about evaluating plaque on a calcium score or CT angiogram improving your metabolic Health um with ketosis and reversing that plaque no I don't have any examples of that I I don't know that that exists in the literature from a CT anagram now is that the goal and I would say not necessarily I think the goal is one prevent prevention and even more importantly prevent events so if you can take plaque that is soft and vulnerable and inflamed and help that plaque heal and calcify which would raise your calcium score potentially that could still be a net benefit if that's going to lead to reduce outcomes a reduction in outcomes now we don't obviously have large trials to show that I believe that can definitely be the case with improved metabolic Health um but so I think we need to set our goals and and that's a big discussion I have with patients all the time I've got a high calcium score how do I reduce it hang on a second maybe that's not the goal we're looking for here um I I completely agree I can give you anecdotes of stabilization you know lack of progression of conri atra disease uh absence of events in several of my patients who have very high levels of LDL 300 400 behaving very much like lean mass hyperresponders but for me to sh say sit here and say that I have seen actual regression in other words reduction in calcium scores Improvement in the uh plaque that I see on coronary angiography I have not seen that yes so I would say that um there's been quite a bit of data generated using various Imaging Technologies such as ivis which is an ultrasound catheter In Your Vessel so you're doing a cardiac Cath and you can see there's the plaque I can map the plaque I know the volume of the plaque you can use Optical tomography invasively as well so there's invasive data there's non-invasive data um and so one of the interesting things that is pretty tight is that the higher in individuals who have coronary disease we've you established where their plaques are we're following them over time there there is a a pretty straight line relationship between persistently high LDL or apal B and progression in plaque volume and there is conversely a slowing and actually a decrease in plaque volume as a function of lowering that and so using any number of modalities that type of data is is out there now that doesn't mean that it is uh specifically in the context of Keto it is in the context however of following plaques over time and some of those individuals are individuals who for various reasons are high and untreated uh individuals who are being treated in various ways and so cutting through some of the vagaries of the data that that relationship is is a fairly tight relationship we're going to wrap it here could you please join me in thanking your panelists

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: c1sgY4iuycc (https://youtu.be/c1sgY4iuycc) ===

Jessica apple is a writer and editor with a focus on metabolic health and a co-founder of a nonprofit magazine for low carb diabetes please welcome Jessica [Applause] apple good hi I'm Jess Apple it's an honor to be here thank you so much for coming thank you for listening to my story this is not medical advice when I was in kindergarten my mom wore a black eye patch like a pirate she had a cane to help her walk but her arm shook so much she couldn't really hold the cane down on the floor she had a disease that was hard to say and impossible to spell Mommy's body is attacking itself my dad explained no one knew why there wasn't a single day in my childhood when I didn't wonder what would make a body attack itself and I was still thinking about it when it started happening to me I got chickenpox when I was 25 I was sick for weeks and even when the pox went away I still didn't feel good but my doctor couldn't figure out what was wrong with me I can't prove it but I think that that's when my autoimmune problems began and as is sometimes the case when there isn't a clear diagnosis it was concluded that my illness was in my head and okay fair enough because I was incredibly anxious I was in my mid 20s the same age my mom had been when she got sick and what I remembered from my childhood was when you get sick and nobody knows why you go on to endure Unthinkable suffering for more than a decade and then you die but that's not what happened to me quite the opposite I got pregnant and then for the first time I had an oral glucose tolerance test and I found out that I had gestational diabetes my doctor was really surprised because I was young and thin and healthy because I ate according to the food pyramid lots and lots of healthy heart health healthy grains lowfat Dairy plenty of fruits and vegetables and I didn't eat meat because it wasn't because I thought meat was bad for me I just didn't want to eat animals and I had been a vegetarian for most of my life it would take 8 years and two more pregnancies for me to finally figure out my diabetes problem strangely enough during that time my husband Mike was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes autoimmune diabetes and once again my loved one's body was attacking itself and though more than 20 years had passed since my mom was sick still no one could explain what would make a body attack itself Mike's diabetes symptoms were severe and scary and he almost died before he got the correct diagnosis but me on the contrary there was nothing dramatic about my diabetes I always presented with slightly elevated fasting glucose and my doctors weren't concerned about it because my grandfather had had type 2 diabetes so it was genetic and genetic obviously meant inevitable I was presented with the notion that my health was predetermined and that I was doomed to be sick my anxiety about that impending doom and pretty much everything else was tremendous I carried it with me everywhere like a heavy backpack that I could never put down at the end of 2008 halfway through my third pregnancy and convinced that I had something more than gational diabetes I asked a doctor to test me for type 1 I was diagnosed with L latent autoimmune diabetes and adults based on auto antibodies and low C peptide which indicated a diminished capacity to secrete insulin L is a slow progressing form of type one and it usually comes with insulin resistance it looks a lot like type 2 or metabolic syndrome in its early stages and it's often called type 1 and a half after my diagnosis a dietitian gave me a meal plan she sat at a desk in front of a poster of the food pyramid and she had a lot to say about my need for fiber particularly in the form of brand flakes I tried to follow her instructions for a few days and I I ate brand flakes for breakfast but my blood sugar was never under 180 afterwards so how could they be good for me at my second appointment with tears in my eyes I explained that I couldn't eat brand flakes without a giant Spike and blood sugar and it never happened to me when I ate eggs The dietitian assured me that the problem was not the cereal it was me that's why you take insulin she explained to bring your blood sugar down but why would I want to take a giant bolus of a really dangerous drug when I could just not eat Brown flakes they don't even taste good it defied common sense and though I trusted in my common sense I also knew that what made sense to me was not the same thing as scientific evidence so I was confused and I was scared doctors promised me that Lotto would worsen with time and there was nothing I could do about it recognizing that they might be right and I might be making a big mistake I still opted to go with my common sense and I became a scientist of myself and I said goodbye to insulin and off I went with my little glucose meter in a big dream to have agency over my health thank you I diligently tracked my blood sugar before and after meals and I figured out what I could metabolize without needing to inject insulin I didn't know it at the time but I had essentially begun a ketogenic diet at that time aside from the groundbreaking work of Gary tals there wasn't a lot of information about carbohydrate restriction and certainly not from the American Diabetes Association or anyone in the diabetes industry they were pushing the message that carbs were essential and that diabetes was a genetic Misfortune which had nothing to do with what you ate unless you ate a lot of red meat and and then that was the problem still today you can find terrible advice on their website today they're telling you that fruit juice is a nutritious choice but fruit juice is sugar Mike and I decided to tell the world there was another way to manage diabetes and that a life without carbs could still be very sweet in 2009 we founded a Sweet Life a nonprofit low carb dice abetes magazine and for over 12 years we published thousands of articles about metabolic health and diabetes at the same time Mike was running marathons and I was quietly treating L with diet and exercise only what I could not tell you when I started this in 2009 I can confidently tell you today there is at least one person on this planet who has put l into remission for 15 years yes who and along the way I've spent a lot of time contemplating the origins of autoimmune diseases because inside me has always been the little girl who watched her mother deteriorate into a body that could do nothing but breathe and I wanted to know what happened to her but even more importantly L as a mother myself I had to know what I could do to protect my children from disease so I thought a lot about L and how it straddled the line between type 1 and type 2 diabetes what was the connection between metabolic dysfunction and autoimmune disorders was insulin resistance a trigger for autoimmunity or did autoimmunity cause insulin resistance had my keto diet put l into remission and could we start looking at all autoimmunity through a metabolic lens I had a million questions and over the course of a few years metabolic Health became a Hot Topic and it was very exciting wonderful things began to happen My Brother Sam Apple published a book called ravenous about cancer as a metabolic disease [Applause] a group called the type 1 grit publicly proved that children with diabetes could grow and thrive on a low carb diet according to Dr Bernstein's method my friend Dr Mariela glant an endocrinologist started to treat her diabetes patients with keto and a medical doctor with Ms Dr Terry walls recovered from Ms using nutritional therapy and she she went from a wheelchair to riding a bike she was the first person I heard talk about mitochondrial dysfunction in Ms I knew that mitochondria were the cells that powered metabolism so mitochondrian metabolism something was clicking for me something was starting to make sense and so many of the metabolic Mysteries I've been wondering about were starting to unravel and critical for my self- sciencing was the work of Harvard psychiatrist Dr Chris Palmer who says all symptoms of mental disorders can be tied directly to metabolism or more specifically mitochondria just like Dr walls had identified mitochondrial dysfunction in Ms Dr Palmer or impaired mitochondrial biology as Dr Matthew Phillips calls it Dr Palmer's brain energy Theory claims that this is also the root cause of all mental disorders impaired mitochondrial biology what could we possibly do about that actually there's great news because there's so much we can do and I was already using one of the metabolic strategies a key to genic diet but by the time I learned about keto for mental health I been on a keto diet for so long and it was great for my blood sugar but I'd never felt any relief from my anxiety disorder so I Shrugged it off because you know nothing works for everyone but at the same time I knew that my diet was deficient in nutrients because I didn't eat meat and I had long believed that the science shows that animal fat is essential for the brain to op to work optimally except that not eating meat was also Central to my moral identity and it wasn't something that I wanted to overcome so I had to work really really hard on myself to change and I constantly reminded myself that I am an animal with biological needs just own it I'd say to myself and until finally I did I stopped using plant fats and I replaced them with beef Tallow and my brain transformed within a few weeks my heavy backpack of anxiety turned into a handbag and the incessant voice in my head telling me to brace for impending disaster went from a scream to a whisper I had finally found a way to be in the moment without the background noise of fearing what comes next this is just anecdotal of course I don't know if or for how long any of my health improvements will last and I'm really not qualified to tell anyone what they should or should not eat so I'll quote someone who is Dr Terry walls eat for your mitochondria she says in her famous lecture about recovering from Ms become ambassadors for your mitochondria Dr walls rose up from a wheelchair doing this my friend Hannah Warren put bipolar disorder into complete remission doing this you just heard what I did and there are thousands of others including many of you here today who are healing using metabolic strategies and I'm so grateful to be part of this community we are demonstrating what is possible propelling science forward and Paving the way for a new approach to preventing and managing chronic illnesses thank you I just wanted to add uh I only found this out backstage she flew all the way from Tel Aviv to come give that speech [Applause] yeah

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: B6SOtnbCWj8 (https://youtu.be/B6SOtnbCWj8) ===

Dr Brett Sher is a cardiologist and lipidologist focused on metabolic health and prevention of heart disease through lifestyle interventions please welcome Dr Brett Shure so so one thing you may not know about me is I'm also a country music fan like Eric Church and be like Eric Church yeah so where's kimberry he lives in Tennessee he's got to be a country music fan right okay so so Eric Church has this song If I Could Kill a word right if I could kill hate or fear or loneliness he would kill those words well I want to kill a conversation I want to kill the conversation where someone walks into their doctor's office and says I want to try this ketogenic diet because I heard it can help my type 2 diabetes ulcer of colitis PCOS bipolar disorder enter diagnosis here and the doctor says yeah but haven't you heard the keto diet's like the worst diet don't you read us news and Report don't you see the internet right I want to kill that conversation and I think the way we can kill that conversation is by realizing ketosis is a therapeutic medical intervention that's as strong or stronger than most of the medicines we have it's not a diet and that's thank you very much so so that's the that's the root of my talk when is a diet not a diet so therapeutic nutritional ketosis is not a diet it's a medical intervention and I think when we can start talking this language doctors and and other Healthcare professionals will start to realize we're not talking about what the US News and real report doesn't understand we're talking about what the medical community needs to understand so first my disclaimer I don't have any revent uh medical pharmacological or food industry funding I am the director of metabog mind which is a nonprofit initiative a bazooki group where we're exploring education and resources at the intersection of metabolic and mental health and I have a consultative medical practice so this is standard medical care right we we see it time and time again you walk in you get your drug and you leave and the future doesn't look brighter because now we're just going to more expensive injections instead of medications and if this is the Paradigm we're working from then a diet is a diet right if this is your Paradigm a diet does not become a medical intervention especially when the diet that we think is supposed to work is eat less avoid fat and move more which can look like this who wants to eat like this right a little bit of an exaggeration but instead when people are taught to eat like this they end up eating like this and then they say okay well moderation so they eat a little less of that and we know that does not work like if you ask any doctor does this work they will say no and then you say well what are you doing about it and they say well diets don't work and that's where we have to change the conversation because diets like this we're all here because we know diets like this work now what does it mean to work well that's part of the problem it can work in so many different ways do you want to lose weight or do you want to put a chronic seemingly irreversible medical condition into remission and that's what can happen so ketogenic therapy therapeutic nutritional ketosis the words we use matter right if we use the word keto diet that comes with so much stuff right for the whether it's the internet we whether it's you know the way you're taught in medicine a keto diet comes with baggage I guess you could say not necessarily all deserve for sure but what about ketogenic therapy what about therapeutic nutritional ketosis it's more of a mouthful but it explains more of what we're doing we're using the physiologic state of ketosis to treat a medical condition and if we can start framing the discussion around that things will change but is there evidence well yeah there's evidence so so efficacy and safety of low carb and very low carbohydrate diets for type 2 diabetes remission uh systematic review and metaanalysis of published and unpublished randomized trial data now that's a mouthful but type 2 diabetes remission so the doctors in this room know like when you were in medical school did you ever hear the words type two diabetes and remission used together never never it's not a thing or it wasn't a thing I should say now it is and is this a one study no this is a systematic review and metaanalysis of published and unpublished data so there's more than one study and what did they find in this 23 trials with 1300 people that there was a higher rate of diabetes remission so again diabetes remission of 57% compared to 31% so 57% type 2 diabetes Mission and then of course our friends at at verta Health published 2year and now 5-year data about using a ketogenic intervention and what did they find they found there was a resolution of diabetes reversal in 53% remission in 177% the difference being whether or not they were still met foran basically um but not in the usual Care Group the usual Care Group did not have that but so you put these two together and what's my math like 70% right that's pretty amazing to something that wasn't even really discussed maybe 10 15 years prior and no I did not forget to put something on the slide this is the number of studies showing 70% remission or reversal for using medications in type 2 diabetes here's the whole list and and someone may say well what about gp1s aren't those starting to show benefit and and remission and the answer is no because you're dependent on the medication and that's the whole point that we can treat a disease put it into remission without being dependent on the medication and studies are clear when you stop the gp1s you gain the weight right back except since we mentioned verta they also did a recent study showing that if you treat those people getting off the GOP ones with a ketogenic diet they don't regain the weight so another interesting finding but then what about other ways that ketogenic therapy ketogenic intervention can be beneficial and I like this slide because it shows the brain and the brain is here looks sort of like mystical and magical and in a way that's sort of How It's like in medicine if you're not a neurologist or a psychiatrist the brain is like its own thing out there and you don't quite understand it or want to understand it but what we know is mental health is health I I don't you know I give credit to Georgia Eid because she always says last time she checked the brain was connected to the body so we better start treating them like they're connected because mental health is health and health is mental health and what we know from Decades of research and a century of experience is epilepsy responds well to ketosis and epilepsy and mental illness are both in the brain they're brain cells and we know that there's some potential shared mechanism and there's some potential shared U medications so if one work something works for one it makes sense sense that something would work for the other and we know the brain likes ketones well what does that mean that's sort of like a glib statement right to say the to what is anthropomorphize the brain to say that it likes ketones well let's think about it what do we know about what happens in so many neurologic and mental health disorders we know that the fuel usage the fuel transformation of glucose to useful energy is impaired we know that that's not like a question so how do we improve that well providing key novel or not novel as an as a different source of energy as a more efficient source of energy makes sense and we know it works and research is starting to show us how and why it works and these are other effects that ketogenic interventions can have on the brain they can balance neurotransmitters by increasing Gap at decreasing glutamate this is shown in patients with epilepsy and actually there's a a a study starting right now from the University of Pittsburgh with Dr Mary Phillips where they're looking exactly at this in in patients with and without bipolar disorder to see how if the effects are different or similar but we know this is an effect with someone with epilepsy so why wouldn't it be effect the brain is the brain neurotransmitters are neurotransmitters ketogenic interventions can do that they can decrease neuroinflammation that's a very important finding they can provide a more efficient brain fuel source which I already mentioned and they can decrease brain insulin res resistance if you're insulin resistant in the body you better believe your brain's going to be insulin resistant as well and there's one study that I think really deserves mentioning about brain insulin resistance Dr Cindy caulin did a study where she treated patients with treatment resistant bipolar depression with metformin a drug that works in the liver not in the brain works in the liver and she found that those patients who took the metformin and reversed their insulin resistance measured systemically dramatically improved their symptoms of bipolar depression not by giving any medication that's supposed to work in the brain but only by improving insulin resistance so there's a pretty clear Association improved mitochondrial energy production with ketosis that's something we're learning a lot about now but is pretty clear to affect the function the cellular function of brain cells and it can affect the microbiome and how that relates to the brains and so many others now does this sound like a diet to anybody do you think reducing your calories by 500 calories is going to do this do you think just simply changing you know the the type of carbohydrates you're eating is going to do this no no and that's why I don't like to speak about ketosis as a diet this is a medical intervention show me a drug that does all these things and I'll show you a billion- dollar Blockbuster but we don't have that we can do that by changing the way we eat but eating better isn't enough just like I said right just decreasing your calories trying to focus a little bit more on healthier foods doesn't have those effects sure if we cut out Ultra processed foods if we eat Whole Foods we are going to dramatically improve our health but not to the point where we are having all these effects right so I'm not discouraging anybody from saying I want to cut out Ultra processed foods I want to eat more Whole Foods even if it's not a ketogenic intervention that's fine you're going to see benefits but if this is your goal there's one way to get there and that's with ketogenic therapy now studies are happening for sure and this is this is an old slide actually this I really need to update this um to say that there's you know one observational study and one case study in bipolar not anymore now we can probably add three more to that um and same for major depression we can add one and schizophrenia we can add so so this needs to be dramatically updated but the point of this slide is what level of evidence do we need to recommend a food-based intervention right if it's a drug you need the randomized control trial you need the FDA approval you also have pharmaceutical companies spending hundreds of millions if not billions of dollars to perform those studies but when it's a food-based intervention used as powerful as a medicine we don't necessarily need that but we need to balance is it safe is it effective who do we do it in and that's where it gets a little uncomfortable right to say ketosis is a medical intervention anybody can do it without clinical supervision but that's where we have to have some caution because are you doing it right are you using ketogenic therapy versus just trying a keto diet and it's subtle but that's something to discuss and think about but now I want to talk about one study that was done fairly recently by Dr Albert Donan in France um Dr Georg Eid Eric Westman Laura Sasso some very impressive names helped publish this and uh this slide is courtesy of Dr Adrien soda so what what Dr Don did was he took a collection of his patients that he had treated for years with refractory symptoms that he was not able to control after years of medical therapy he put them in the hospital and the only thing he did was change their diet and so he put them on a ketogenic diet which really was ketogenic medical therapy and you can see the results were very impressive with 100% improved their symptoms 43 clinical remission and again if you talk to psychiatrists who've been doing this for decades and say what's the likelihood of achieving clinical remission for refractory mental illness they would probably just scoff and say no it doesn't happen we had does 43% of them did it with a ketogenic intervention and you can see they also lost weight and they reduced their medications but I want to draw attention to some of the specifics so the Hamilton depression rating scale okay so that's just what psychiatrists can use to measure the symptoms of depression and keep an eye on these numbers from 25 down to 7 okay and and the positive and negative syndrome scale P anss from 91 to 49 what does all that mean well we're going to get into that okay so here's what the this is the Hamilton 23 is severe depression seven is normal remember it went from like 22 to 7 that's pretty impressive just based on that but how does this compare to other studies so this was a study looking at nripan I apologize it's a little complicated but Nene is was I guess one of the first sort of anti-depressants um that was approved for use well not one of the first but one of the first sort of mainstream very well accepted anti-depressants and what they found if you look at what am I looking at here I should know this okay this was an intent to treat and this was those who actually um completed the trial but if you look at where are they starting at they're starting in like that 22 23 range similar to what they were in Dr Donan study and where are they getting down to oh they're getting down to like the 567 range similar to Dr Donan study huh here's an FDA approv drug showing a change very similar to what Dr Donan showed with ketogenic interventions so remember they started with 25 and got down to seven very similar to what was used for that FDA approval of Nord triene interesting well how about this this was um resp aipan resp or antis psychotic medications so using the PS um score and here they went from 95 to 47 huh sounds oddly familiar to what they showed in Dr Donan study right going from 91 to 49 so when we talk about ketogenic interventions having effects similar to medications it's this kind of data that really needs to make us kind of raise our eyes a little bit these were used for FDA approval of the medications and yet Dr Donan saw similar results with ketogenic interventions now the caveat being it's not the same population it's not the same time frame right this isn't exactly accurate science to say it's the same we need more studies done in a way that those studies were done randomized control trials Etc but you got to start somewhere right you have to start somewhere that's how science progresses and this is what we need people to take note of to say this is a therapeutic grade intervention that is likely similar to medications so therapeutic nutritional ketosis is not a diet how many times have I said that anybody keeping track but I'm going to keep saying it because this is the way we need to reframe the discussion and ketogenic therapy is not trying a keto diet now here's where I guess it could come off being almost a little arrogant if someone says I tried a keto diet didn't work you say oh yeah we didn't do it right and that sounds terrible right but in a way you sort of ask yourself well did you do it right were you measuring your ketones were you doing it under clinical supervision did you try it for at least like 6 8 10 12 weeks depending on you know what you're trying to treat were you targeting a a specific Ketone level or did you just start eating a bunch of bacon and think that you did a you know that you did ketoy and and sometimes people confuse that right like at metabolic mind we put out so many YouTube videos to try and help educate people and we get responses like that I tried a keto diet it didn't work for me and I always want to dig and say tell me more tell me what you did tell me what didn't work tell me what work means right we have all these different questions and those are the questions that are answered with ketogenic therapy those are the questions that are asked and answered with ketogenic therapy when you're working with a trained professional now that's the other caveat a trained professional I wasn't a trained professional 20 years ago when I E exited my fellowship no way I knew nothing about this and that's what the majority of the position the majority of doctors are in so this is where we need to help provide the education to put it out there so people understand that this is a therapeutic intervention and not simply eating a bunch of bacon because that's unfortunately a big part of the perception and as with any medical intervention we have to think about well is it completely safe are there any adverse effects additional effects that maybe we wouldn't expect so sleep sleep is a big part of this right A lot of people can report changes in their sleep when they started ketogenic therapy now if that happens to be someone with bipolar disorder who may be prone to Mania that's pretty important to recognize right and that's why it's can be a little concerning for people to try this on their own and we have a whole video at metabolic mind about this about how do you diagnose prevent treat hypomania Mania when starting ketogenic therapy because it's a real thing right and what about the keto flu right we all know about the keto flu there are some simple ways to try and prevent it increased hydration electrolytes maybe transitioning a little more slowly but if you're prone to depression and all of a sudden you're feeling lethargic and decreased energy and a little more Moody from the keto flu you're going to say uhuh I'm not doing this this is making me worse so that's the other problem if someone says I tried keto and it didn't work well if that was the case if you didn't make it past the first week because of the keto fluid you didn't try ketogenic therapy right so we need to be aware of that medication levels turns out ketosis is a powerful physiologic intervention that can change the levels of many medications including psychoactive medications like valproic acid like lithium it can affect the levels of the medication which could be a good thing it could sort of help you taper off them as long as you're doing well if you have increased symptoms then it could be sort of an unwarranted or an unwanted taper if it happens Too Fast Too Soon people need to be aware of that we have unfortunately seen cases of someone who says I went on a keto diet and stopped all my medications and I felt terrible well yeah you've been on these psychoactive medications for years and years and years and thought you could just stop them all at once so we have to be careful about that and that's where this whole concept of ketogenic therapy comes in just like any treatment you're going to have to do it responsibly and carefully and then energy levels sort of like with the keto flu energ levels can go up or down um with ketosis and how do you differentiate just a normal energy change versus the verge of of something more concerning right measuring sleep is a big way to do it but needs to be taken care of and support now one of my real pet peeves is when someone just says I guess this is another conversation I want to kill is oh yeah you could try a ketogenic diet but God it's so hard why would you want to do that you'd be so you would totally restrict yourself and it's really hard to do well that may be true for some people but I want you to ask Matt bazooki how hard it is you know for him sorry if I'm speaking for you Matt but you know some something that changes your life like that isn't so hard I think probably having psychosis and having Mania that's pretty hard and compare that just not eating bread and not eating pizza so you have to you really have to put this into context so it really bothers me when someone says it's too hard to do now that being said I'll admit it's not easy for everybody for some people it's very easy and for some people it isn't and that's where this concept of support comes in you know another thing we hear is yeah I tried the keto diet and it was just too hard to do well did you have anybody helping guide you to try and help you figure out which foods to eat how to substitute different foods how to shop you know how to order out all these things make a difference and so support is part of prescribing a ketogenic intervention responsibly and so that's one thing we want to do at metabolic mind is we want to help provide that information for people so they can understand the different the different concepts involved with starting ketogenic therapy what you could expect what you have to look for how to talk to your doctor about this what lab tests to get and so uh thank thanks to the bazuki family and bazooki group we have almost 100 videos now on YouTube about this we have newsletters and we have blogs and we have links to all the other people in this field trying to elevate what is happening for using ketosis as a therapeutic intervention so I'll say it one last time ketogenic therapy is a medical intervention not a diet and once we can change the way we talk about it we can hopefully start to change how Physicians and clinicians see that and start getting people treated with it appropriately safely and effectively so thank you very [Applause] much you actually have enough time if you want to take questions any anyone have any questions for uh Brett he actually has another eight minutes unless he wants to yield it I can't see a thing though so I don't know who's asking questions question there go ahead so if you have someone that's uh fighting uh PTSD and anxiety what would and they're trying to get their protein up what would be the like ratio I saw like the 80% for fat one to one be okay can you repeat it back yeah great question and I'll take it more in like a general context like what what kind of ketogenic diet right so when we talk about ketogenic diets and you refer to how they were used initially for kids in epilepsy it was this 4:1 keto diet which is really low protein very high fat and of course very low carbs but we've learned learned since then that a modified Atkins diet likely works just as well and modified Atkins can be up to like 30% protein so very different than that 4 one so that's the beauty of ketogenic interventions is you can test it you can't test how compliant you are with the Mediterranean diet or or or calorie reduction necessarily because nobody really knows how to count calories but keto Mojo raise your hand keto Mojo you can test your ketones and you can know exactly where they're at so some people especially if you're metabolically less healthy May lower their Ketone levels when they get up to protein of you know 1.5 grams per kilogram other people can maintain High Ketone levels despite two grams per kilogram there is some variation there so I'm a big proponent of protein we want lean muscle mass we want to remain it's very important for metabolic Health very important for longevity so I think we need to make sure we're getting adequate protein so doing that balance of ketogenic therapy with adequate protein I want someone to eat as much protein as they can without seeing their Ketone levels drop all right so that's where testing your ketones can be so important and that's part of ketogenic therapy not just starting a keto diet and blindly going but testing that's one thing I love so much about ketosis is we can test it yes loud I'll repeat it I'll so question for you I feel like a lot of people in our don't know the mental health benefits of Keto so what can we all do we're all here what can we do as a community to help spread that word people know what can we as a community do to spread the word so people know that keto can help with mental health go to metabolic mind I got to say that you know have have everybody go to metabolic mind have them read Georg E's book have them read Chris Palmer's book have them follow Nicole arant on on um on Twitter uh this is a movement that is gaining so much speed and and really um and you bring up a good point you know two years ago probably nobody really knew about this and these resources didn't exist and again a tremendous gratitude to the bazuki family to now have these resources and to be able to elevate everybody else who's who's providing other resources so we have to start talking about it and we have to start referring people to these sites to give one to give people hope who are who are looking for something different and better and also so for clinicians to learn more and hopefully coming down the road soon we'll have more clinician training about this as well yes yeah thank you Dr Lee does it require a specific Ketone level to see benefit from um therapeutic ketosis and the answer is maybe and so Dr Ian Campbell um completed a pilot study at the University of Edinburg and it's been presented and will be published soon he did see an association with improved mood with higher Ketone levels up to like two and a half or three I think if I'm remembering correctly not that there was no benefit at lower Ketone levels but there was increased benefit as ketones increased if you talk to Chris Palmer he likes to shoot for around 1.5 we have an example of um an individual Lauren Kennedy whose YouTube channel is living well with schizophrenia who which I highly recommend she lives in Ketone levels of like four where she feels really good and she came down to 1.5 and noticed a significant difference and started to notice some of her her psychotic symptoms coming back interestingly so it's clear there's some individual variation and um it's probably safe to say in general a little higher is probably better but it's very individualized so the blanket statement would probably be you know if you want to shoot for something shoot for above one but test how you feel see how you feel at three see how you feel at 08 try some MCT oil try adding some extra fat see if you can you know dial your Ketone level up and down to see if it makes a difference all right but thank you Dr sure [Applause] yep

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: UWdJSDrs-WA (https://youtu.be/UWdJSDrs-WA) ===

Dr nadir Ali is an Interventional cardiologist focusing on diet and lifestyle interventions to improve health and public guidelines please welcome Dr nadir Ali I wish I could be vulnerable and genuine like Matt and and Amber um I'd like to make a disclosure that although I'm a low car practitioner I cheat a lot and I have several patients who know I what they should do they know about low carb they know about fasting they know about exercise but the most difficult part for them is execution and implementation so we are in the Sin City of the world the mecca of dopamine arousal so I I thought I would talk about the pleasure centers today and see how I can try to help my patients and myself the story starts with uh James SS and Peter Milner and they were investigating investigating a rat in whom they had put in an electrode deep into their brain and what they noticed is that the rat would want to go to that green grid so that it could get electrically shocked and if they would move the the grid a little bit to the left of the Rat the rat would pretty soon follow and over time you could train the rat and move it like a joystick so what they had done and although they did not know it is that they had put the electrode deep into the rat's brain where the molic dopamine system is and they said well let's see if the rat would forgo food in favor of electrical stimulation and so they stared the rat for 24 hours and in case you're wondering what 24 hours feels to a rat in human equivalence that's 30 days so if you start for 30 days and you're put in a tunnel and at the end of the tunnel is food the rat has an electrode in it and when it comes onto the green grid it prefers to stay at the green grid and get electrically shocked rather than go and fetch the food despite being hungry for about 24 hours now they said would the rat tolerate torture to get this electrical stimulation and what they found is that they designed an experiment in which there would be an electrical grid out here and this grid would shock the rat's feet it would be extremely painful and at either end of the cage was levers that it could press and once it presses lever this lever would no longer be active and it would have to press the other lever to get the electrical jolt and the dopamine increase and what they found is that the rat ran willingly back and forth until it feet were so charred that it couldn't do it anymore and old said that the only reason that the rat would do this is because this is providing the rat with pleasure and Bliss so this was not unnoticed by Dr Robert Heath he was a psychiatrist at Tain uh some people call him a Maverick others call him a monster but he decided that he's going to try this in humans and he put electrodes deep into the human brain in several of his patients and he said that by doing this based on his experience that he can treat depression schizophrenia psychosis and other disorders and the placement of his electrode was very similar to that of Olden Milner it was deep in the brain where the molic dopamine neurons are now Dr Heat's patients behave pretty much like olds and Millers rats when given the opportunity to shock they had a little self stimulator they shocked up to 40 times per minute the invest the investigators reported reported that the patients appeared to like the shocks they preferred it over food even when they were hungry and the dominant psychiatric Paradigm at that time was of behaviorism behaviorism means that anything that the person does is objective is real subjective feelings that like thoughts and feelings were unimportant and of course even at that time these studies were controversial there was one patient however with narcolepsy in whom these subjective feelings were recorded and he said that he felt it more like anxiety and stress that the act of self stimulating was intensely frustrating and even though he was pressing the lever constantly and frantically he never really achieved the satisfaction that he thought he would get with the next shock so he described it as a compulsion rather than happiness pleasure or Bliss so the question that I ask myself is that with the stimulation of dopamine neurons is it pleasure or Bliss or is it simply the promise of reward and the next shock is going to give you or give you the perception of elusive Bliss which you would never completely achieve now be honest with me how many of you here think that dopamine is a pleasure neurotransmitter show off hands okay well you're willing to be wrong because this is a study a seminal study done in in mice in which the dopamine neurons are completely anhil with knockout and you can see the mice is much smaller and a little bit of sugar is put in that uh mice's mouth and you you can see a pleasure response you can see a nice little goofy grin and when you put a bitter thing in the in the mice you see that a disgust response however what the dopamine deficient mice will not do is to work for that Sugar it will not even get up and go a few feet to fetch the sugar because it's lost all desire in living and this these mice they die of dehydration and malnutrition they are not like the regular mice so what olds and milers had discovered was the lyic dopamine system a very highly conserved area in all animals and it is responsible for wanting for arousal for action for consumption the areas of the brain that give you pleasure are in a different different location it's in your prefrontal cortex right behind your forehead and your eyes and dopamine her or dopamine arousal is more to get you to work even suffer to get that anticipated reward so when we think about reward we should not just think about pleasure and Hedonism we should also think about desire and motivation and arousal and if I were to make you guys an evolutionary biologist and I tasked you with a purpose of survival of species what would you focus on would you focus on giving the animal the capability of Desire motivation and arousal or more pleasure and Hedonism so the answer is pretty straightforward and that is that the dopamine neurons is biology strict to make sure that you don't starve to death because you can't be bothered to find food in other words hunt down a carnivorous meal for us and that you don't hasten human extinction because seducing a potential mate seems like too much of an hassle so the promise of reward is brain strategy to keep you hunting Gathering working wooing and our dopamine reward system evolved thousand thousands of years ago when we used to roam the Savannah we would find rewards very scarcely and sparsely it was never designed to be activated as frequently as we are doing it we now live in a world that is extremely different than our ancestors so our modern world is filled with all kinds of overwhelming abundance of food that is Stila and stimulating our dopamine neurons it's as if that press leches cake is directly wired into my brain and giving me that dopamine arousal and wanting me to cheat and lose my willpower and when I go home after working for 12 hours in the hospital all I can do is to sit on the couch and scroll through YouTube looking for the next dopamine head from uh Dave Felman or Nick nor video and being almost powerless to stop how many of you can do do that okay well I'm in good company so the dopamine levels were investigated in adolescence and uh what was found is that adolescents with internet addiction disorder have much higher internet addiction scores have higher dopamine levels have higher weekly time on the internet compared to unaddicted kids and Kelly McGonigal from whom I've gotten a lot of this material says that there is one study that found that playing video games which takes dopamine arousal to a different level led to dopamine increases as high as amphetamine use now our world is full of neurom marketers and last vas has completely figured out how neuromarketing works from a biological standpoint and they draw from The Works of several psychologists one of them is BF Skinner and he put a pigeon in a cage and when the pigeon would Peck a lever it would be rewarded with a grain so in the beginning the grain reward was predictable one PEC one grain but then subsequently he made a small tweak he said I want to give the grain as a variable reward as an intermittent reward sometimes one PE a grain sometimes three pecs a grain sometimes five pecks and his hypothesis was that the pigeon would lose all interest and would never Peck the lever what do you think happened the pigeon went absolutely crazy berserk one pigeon pressed the lever 87,000 times in 14 hours now some 50 years later the neurobiology of this has been worked out so if you have a predictable reward the level of increase in dopamine is much lower it's a magnitude higher when the reward becomes unpredictable and the maximum dopamine arousal comes at right at about 50% guess who has figured this out so that you can lose your money now you would think that food companies do not know about this but they know about it in Exquisite detail there is a whole host of signs behind how preo sauce is designed with the right amount of sugar salt and flavor to get you hooked and the texture the fattiness and the flavor of ice cream will arouse your dopamine neurons so that you would eat in excess and the concept of variable rewards has been taken to a totally different level with these Dorito flaming hot chips because each chip has a variable hotness index so when you open a bag you're going to finish it you're going to be like a pigeon so I want you to consider becoming a dopamine detective in your life see what are the different ways in which marketers are uh causing arousal of your dopamine neurons either in your grocery store or in your Breaky where the free samples make you buy more and only one slip out of the 100 would have a jumbo reward of $10 and we know based on intermittent positive reward that you just learned that this is going to be very effective because uh they stayed in treatment when they were in the Fishbowl group 83% versus 20% they were drug free 80% versus 40% and even after the study was over they managed to remain drug free show you the power of dopamin your rewards now there are several things that I challenge myself can I be a carnivore pure carnivore for a month and I had to sit down for about a week in order to figure out how I can appropriately dopam manize this reward so don't think that it's an easy activity for you to do it's something that you would have to sit down and genuinely work through that now dopamine does have a dark side it's just doesn't provide with you the carrot the promise of reward but dopamine neurons activate the stress centers in the brain they make your adrenal gland make more epinephrine and cortisol and they can make you feel downright rotten so here is a lady who has chocolate Cravings she's got a weakness for chocolates and when she's shown pictures of chocolate not only does she look lose self-control and is tempted but there's also a measurable startled response in which the epinephrine and cortisol levels go up now this is an important point that was investigated by Dr barage in which he described something called a decoupling in other words when there is a promise of reward for me like for by consuming a chocolate thress Leches I just had intensely focused that the seeking craving the willingness to work and get that reward as evidence that this desire is going to make me happy but when I go deep down into it there's a decoupling between the promise of reward and consumption will actually lead me to unhappiness because the main goal of the dopamine neurons is for you to pursue but it's never going to give you a stop signal even when the experience does not live up to its promise so this is Dr Bar's work in which he's showing that when you get addicted the wanting increases the desire increases but it is decoupled or uncoupled from liking so in other words addiction people have a high desire without having a subsequent increase in liking so I want you to go out and test a promise of reward like anything that you really like to do and notice what that promise of reward feels like does it feel like arousal anticipation stress anxiety and then mindfully indulge but don't rush through that experience does the promise of reward really get you satiated or does it make you feel frustrated over stuffed unhappy and out of time because by doing that you would say I can come to one of two conclusions one is that mindfulness can lead to the observation that you need very little of it to get satisfied or you can come to the alternate conclusion that you find a decoupling a mismatch between the promise of reward and the pleasure itself and you will stop that activity now many of you may be wondering that hey I'm going to go to my doctor and say give me a drug that will anhil dopamine from me but that's going to be a bad idea because Mr a had a long history of poly substance abuse he was consuming cocaine ecstasy oxycodon methodone at a party became aggressive was taken to an emergency room he didn't want to get caught by the police so ingested all the recreational drugs in his possession his blood pressure his oxygen dropped there was less oxygen to his brain he was taken to an ICU and resuscitated and you would think that he would not be any different but from the next year onward he stopped using all his drugs he was confirmed negative on drugs on drug testing at six months and it was not any Spiritual Awakening it was not a positive turn of events because he lost all desire he became isolated he went into severe depression I and didn't do too well and when the doctors scanned his brain they found that the molic dopamine system deep in his brain was damaged so you want to keep your dopamine neurons but you want to control them so I thought that I would be like running out of time but I'm fine so the question that I ask ourselves is do we have agency do we have anything in us so that we can harness the potential of these dopamine neurons and yes we do we have a chunk of neural tissue which is called the prefrontal cortex it's the newest cortex inas we have it in much higher quantity than our primate ancestors it gives us willpower self-awareness self-control attention and focus and Dr slowski you should Google him he's very good he says that the main job of the prefrontal cortex is to make us do the harder thing so when it is tempting thing for me to have the chocolate Tres Leches it tells me that look I need to avoid sugar so that I can be metabolically metabolically healthy and keep up with bread share on the bike or when it's easy for me to lay on the couch on a Sunday afternoon it makes me get up and do optimal exercise not any exercise but optimal exercise and when it's easy for me to watch the media after 12 hours of work it tells me hey preserve your prefrontal cortex go to sleep so how many of you have heard the story of Phineas Gage okay quite a few hands so Phineas Gage was a 25-year-old railroad worker he was Qui and respectful his physician described him as having an ironville and iron body his co-workers said he was reliable and patient and one day while he was setting up an explosion to create a railroad line a tamping rod went through his left cheek came out of his skull a little behind his uh forehead and you would think that he would be dead he didn't even pass out his co-workers put him on a ox cart he recovered in the hospital within two months and he said he feels better than ever but they noticed a change he indulged in the grossest of profanity which was not his custom he was impatient and irritable he had a flight of ideas but no execution he was unreliable and his coworkers said he was no longer gauge so can we become like Phineas gagee while keeping the gray matter inside our skull and yes we can we can become phas Gauge by poor or insufficient sleep with poor metabolic Health with sympathetic arousal and I'll kind of go into that a little bit and with distraction when you are overc consuming media you lose willpower and executive function and you're more likely to cheat on your diet so what is the fight of flight response the fight of flight response is a response when let's say an angry German Shepherd is coming with all those teeth at you at that time you don't want your prefrontal cortex to function you want immediate action so the lyic system what it does is that it increases your heart rate your blood pressure it drops your heart rate with variability which I'll get into it releases sugar from the liver so that you have fuel it puts the muscles in a state of activation and your adrenal gland is pouring out the stress stress hormone epinephrine and cortisol but the question to ask yourself is that is it a seminal event like a dog with those kinds of teeth attacking you that insites your fof flight response the answer is no because stress too much sugar metabolic disease alcohol poor sleep sedentary life all of these do the same thing in terms of activating the uh phof flight response and make you lose your prefrontal cortex function so suppose you are walking down in your neighborhood and there is this Bakery and you see this chocolate rest Lees it's really the chocolate one here with whipped cream and the strawberry topping and you're saying that hey look I am in a state of arousal like the man at the bottom is he's more likely to consume but this lady wants to get into her skinny genes and what can she do to inight to activate the uh the prefrontal cortex and this is called the pause and pl response so pause and pl response is as built into our physiology as the fight and flight response but perhaps it it's not intuitive and the first thing you need to do is to slow down your breathing by slowing down your breathing you slow down your heart rate you drop your blood pressure you increase your heart rate variability you drop the stress hormones you put the muscles in a state of relaxation so what is heart rate variability uh Dr Di austino talked about it with the aura ring some people measure it with the Opel watch but when you're sympathetic Ally aroused the heart beats like a metronome it has definite periodic interval without variation that it is beating so here it's at 1 second throughout on the other hand when your prefrontal cortex is activated when you're in a state of calmness there is a variation in beat to beat by a few milliseconds and that's one of the best ways for you to measure how calm you are and by by practicing this perhaps you will have better control over your prefrontal cortex what are the other things that you can do so we talked about slowing your breathing but there are aspects of meditation sleep and exercise that make your prefrontal cortex function better Matt was up here he talked about doing meditation my good friend Ravi krishnam morti is Right sitting in the second row he is a meditation expert with several years he might find the study interesting this is a study in expert meditators and they looked at their prefrontal cortex thickening and they what they found is that the prefrontal cortex when they were young was just slightly thicker than the controls which are in red but some 15 to 20 years later look at the prefrontal cortex thickening in the expert meditators compared to the controls they had much more of the their prefrontal cortex functioning now you would think that hey you need to be like rvi but you don't because Studies have shown that just 11 hours of practice will make you have better PFC function and you will be more focused and you will ignore distractions and control your impulses better now there is ex all kinds of benefit of exercise I won't be able to go into individual studies but exercise definitely improves PFC fun functioning you have better impulse control you have smoking sensation you can improve your depression and in this study in women with chocolate Cravings just a simple B of exercise dropped their craving scores quite dramatically compared to the women that did not exercise now sleep is a very important factor sleep deprivation abolishes your prefrontal cortex functioning it makes you more temp more uh susceptible to Temptations it'll erode your willpower and the reason for this is that studies after Studies have shown that just a day of sleep deprivation can cause brain insulin resistance that may be temporary and it can become permanent because when this happens what you do is you go into the coffee shop you drink caffeine and and sugar because the prefrontal cortex is an energy hog it needs a lot of energy and when there is brain insulin resistance you cannot provide it with energy you need to jack up your insulin levels jack up your sugar levels in order to feel good and if you do this repeatedly then you will end up with type 3 diabetes and dementia and then again there are several studies that talk about s sleep deprivation and PFC functioning in terms terms of uh insulin resistance in terms of uh acute and chronic sleep impairment causing um all kinds of abnormalities with your decision-making capabilities and you can take a picture of the slide if you prefer but I'd like to spend the rest of my time uh providing a conclusion which is that I didn't realize that my when when my dopamine neurons are activated and hyper that I often mistake the promise of reward as a sign that it's going to lead me to pleasure and happiness and many times I find that there is an uncoupling between this wanting and the pleasure that I'm going to get and the task for us is to use our dopamine neurons and align it with things that would provide us with the right promise of reward so that we can live a life of purpose and meaning and we should be able to strengthen our prefrontal cortex with sleep exercise fasting meditation perhaps low carb diet to harness the potential and live a fulfilling life thank [Applause] you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 01oOw_F12YY (https://youtu.be/01oOw_F12YY) ===

Matt bazooki advocates for mental health through the ketogenic diet and shares his experiences on the bipolar cast podcast please Welcome Matt bazooki okay thanks for asking me to speak Dave um I'd also like to thank the Silverton for my run and roulette last night okay okay I'm working on my skills here we go bipolar Keto this is a story of how I cured my bipolar illness with keto more accurately maybe working on my metabolic Health in general but keto was really the the thing that made the whole recovery possible okay I have a timer good this is me in college um I was at Cal at the time I was 19 everything was going well studying computer science electrical engineering tough course load good friends for turning I'm on the left there and I had some bad habits unfortunately so I had a lot of bad habits when I was 19 uh a lot of beer and marijuana a lot of nicotine and the fraternity as well as carbs I think I was on low carb but it was more of a college low carb which is beer beer and fat and then a lot of chaos because it was a stressful School curriculum okay so when I was 19 uh in March this is the Leviathan from the Bible the bringer of chaos I went into a manic episode and bipolar disorder is characterized by periods of mania with my mom's filming me there with a lot of um with a lot of energy and very little sleep and periods of depression with lethargy and all that stuff I was um they took me to the py wward I was prescribed an antis psychotic and I thought this was a test of my spiritual enlightenment and that if I took it I was not enlightened and so I went I finally went to the psych wward and I was psychotic and delusional I had slept in four or five days um psycho is a pretty scary place to be when you're in that kind of state so I was in the psych W for I'm trying to got to speedrun this deck a little bit um for 10 days that time or 2 weeks or something so from 2016 to 2018 so when I was 19 to 21 years old I had four involuntary hospitalizations for Mania each time I was floridly manic floridly psychotic delusional I thought I was Plato reincarnated I thought I was receiving personal messages from spiritual gurus over YouTube it was really just like floridly psychotic um I was treated by 41 mental health professional and I went to eight treatment centers a bunch of bunch of Residential Treatment Centers and I was just super super sick this is some of my mom's tracking of my symptoms and you can see that this is just a disaster I mean Mania depression anger irritability uh just all kinds of terrible symptoms and this is a little bit more specific look at some of the stuff my mom was tracking for me for all those years and you can see the medications it's just like in insane I mean I practi this is a heavy duty anti psychotic medication and I was taking lots of it um this is a recipe for metabolic dysfunction all of these meds in case you're wondering and of course I really like smoking cigarettes these are some of my favorite cigarettes I like the Camel Crush because you can press the button and then you get the Menthol and I think there's something like people with bipolar smoking is almost a spiritual experience because there's a lot of I comorbidity if you call it smokers and schizophrenia and bipolar um these are some of the photos that were taken when I was manic I like these cuz you can really see the manic aesthetic with the photos which is kind of the um the the colors and the vibe and all this stuff um so yeah I was just really I mean I was sick in 2018 18 I had insight for the first time and this is when I realized that something with my mood and my health was very very wrong and for two years I had been in and out of such horrible psychoses that I didn't I wasn't able to put the pieces together I was never really saying at all so I I had some insight and things were still very difficult but I knew something was really wrong and I had to figure it out and I was 21 at the time and so I started tracking everything I started tracking my mood all the meds I was taking you can see I was taking benzos five times a day they put me on benzos as an antim manic um my sleep how much sleep I got for my AA ring which I still wear as well as my depression levels and everything was high and everything was challenging I was exercising row 16 there so I was doing some things well but life was just very very difficult uh we tried TMS which is this protocol where they put this shocky thing next to your head and zap you and you go like um it was really uncomfortable we my dad got a camper and we we stayed in the camper next to the next to the hospital or whatever cuz I had to do this all day on and off I couldn't work I couldn't go to school full-time work was out of the question off the table my friends were doing internships and going to school and I was not I was going to treatment centers all over the country parents tried everything we had the resources to try everything and nothing helped me this it's funny this plethora of psychological therapies that didn't help me at all like I would go to these treatment centers and they would feed me root beer and ice cream and do DBT with me seven groups a day for 50 minutes each group I mean it it's just ridiculous it's almost like a meme looking back at it like what did you expect was going to happen um um some things are good so exercise which I still do weight training I do meditation I do and then you know I do things differently now but as I was sick and nothing would work and then in March which is now incidentally um in March the days are becoming longer at a very fast rate that's the second derivative for those of you who like math so the days are getting really really getting longer but very fast and I would go manic every March I had my first episode in March of 2016 and March was always challenging and I would have to up my medication dose to 20 Mig of Zyprexa which is this antis psychotic medication or more just to stay stable during March just to prevent myself from sleeping less and less and then going into a manic episode and I would watch it meticulously every March and I was it was always a nerve-wracking um and I was prescrib benzo Adavan it took me 3 years to taper off Adavan we cross tapered to Valium we got a compound pharmacy to prescribe .1 millgram valum pills I was taking it five times a day tapering off slowly I had horrific withdrawal I had irritability I had rage I couldn't sleep I couldn't work I couldn't do anything I finally got off them in 2021 um this was really unfortunate this was very very challenging for me okay so this is the picture in 2020 I was still taking volume I had quit drinking and I had quit drugs in June of that year I quit smoking I was exercising I was taking meds as prescribed I was doing therapy whatever all these things they want you to do and I was sick and I was very very sick and it was going to be a difficult life so things were going to be very challenging for me so this is the picture in 2020 okay now we're getting somewhere so my mom happened to find Dr Chris Palmer's work in 2020 Dr Palmer agreed to treat me pro bono to help out Denise agreed to help with my nutrition she's in the back I think I saw her U Charlie foundation and on January 4th I went on a ketogenic diet I don't remember what the macro makeup was exactly except that I tracked my ketones and they were high you can see they were up in the top there 5 milles 5 milles 2.2 I mean they were really really high actually went into K keto acidosis at one point and got nauseous and I had to work I had to adjust you know I keto flew a little bit these things like that but I really adhered to it for those first you know nine months strictly and I watched my symptoms go away I mean I watch [Applause] them it was wild I I think my mom and dad and I we couldn't even believe it I mean I could not believe it you know I mentioned March Madness that's a funny joke by the way um I I went through March on 5 milligrams which is 25% when I had to take him previous years and I had no symptoms I had no symptoms it was crazy I couldn't even believe it and I was just doing keto and I was eating a lot of fat and I was eating protein and swimming and lifting weights and doing this stuff um I got my degree in music I was making money on Spotify I started working I mean the work I'm doing now as a project manager I couldn't imagine in Tech like is impossible you know this would have been out of the question when I was sick I could barely even pick up the phone to make a call to go to the dentist and then follow up because I my executive functioning just didn't work I mean my brain didn't work um I've done this podcast with Ian who's doing research in Scotland on keto diet for bipolar we've talked to dozens of people who have reversed their symptoms their bipolar disorder symptoms using a ketogenic diet and then of course this is our family foundation so it's grown to a bunch of employees um it's the intersection of metabolic and mental health so we're funding clinical trials for ketogenic therapy for mental illness and things are going really really well we're moving the needle very quickly which when you have something like this that works and everyone has that story of the you know their son not daughter nephew friend whatever it is who's had some something like this it's pretty common these days and when you have something like metabolic therapy that works so well for so many people it's kind of impossible not to for this not to pick up steam I was on the Today's Show like you guys can find that segment if you want to recently it was pretty funny so we did a thing with Kate Snow she talked about keto and mental health and we filmed it in Florida I didn't put that in the slides but so this is like coming into the mainstream now metabolic Psychiatry uh um this is the basic protocol I mean it's more than keto obviously keto was the thing that without it I don't think this would have been possible but cardiovascular exercise and and weight training and then of course I get sunlight in the morning and wear my blue light blockers which I really like um and I have like the eight sleep I'm pretty sleep sleep program is pretty good too and then medic medication and connection with people purpose all these good things that are good for metabolic Health in general and I try to just kick butt at the main so this which is I mean probably 95% of the recovery is doing these few basic things very very well and so I just try to do these oops I just try to do these very well um I went to Argentina to work remotely for a month last year with my buddy um that's him second from the left that's me with this massive beard I had it was great we went to the symphony we did all this stuff we went to soccer games I mean something like this would have been out of the question for me and I stayed up till 2:30 every night which is interesting I had no symptoms so it's kind of wild it's almost like that this was really eye opening for me when I realized wow I'm it seems like I'm cured almost I still watch my sleep I still track it I still have the ring but this was just miraculous and this is probably when I stopped really worrying or my paranoia lessoned I sto being paranoid that I was going to have another episode because was just stable throughout this trip and then um I can play chess again which is just great um brain is really really working well now and looks like I'm going to finish almost a little early my plans for the future is just to to keep doing what I'm doing and it's almost feels like I've been chucked into this world of metabolic health because I'm like the kid who got better and then all of this philanthropy happened but I'm I'm happy to do it and it's such a good story and we have something like this that works so well I'm happy to give back wherever I can so thanks for listening everyone I appreciate [Applause] it

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: RzG6N8WWufM (https://youtu.be/RzG6N8WWufM) ===

okay I am pleased to be joined uh by I hope I can say my very good friend and longtime Confidant in my own research Journey Dr William Cromwell who I hope you don't mind if I still occasionally call you Bill is that okay Bill uh people who know me call me Bill people who don't know me call me Williams that's fine fair enough um I think it's it's worth before we get fully into it I think it's worth really emphasizing something that I've said many times online and that I want to be sure that I say here on this video in the earliest days it was a bit difficult getting somebody of your caliber who I could just you know bounce ideas that I had with regard to lipids uh how they work what the existing research is and without question you were one of the most responsive if not the most responsive voice that I was able to connect with both online and I'm happy to say uh actually came here to Las Vegas and we got to to sit and have a very long lunch that was around three and a half hours so let me just open up by just giving you a long thank you I can't believe we've gotten this far along and um and I I just I can't express enough appreciation for how much you've been foundational to my research and how I've been able to progress on this journey oh well I appreciate it it's been fun um and I have to say um when we were looking at some of the First Data together I was really surprised at how quickly there were lipid phenotypic changes with what you were doing with your own diet and and one of the reasons I think it took a long time for us to have that breakfast was just for me to recalibrate my thinking of how quickly lipid physiology can change under various dietary conditions um not that it doesn't change but that it can change very rapidly uh was a bit of a new learning to me and so that's where I think I looked at get your data to say you know where have we missed this before and and how reproducible is this yeah myself that's part of what I loved about this was uh very early on when I realized I could just get a fairly Advanced lipid panel in the form of a nuclear magnetic resonance test you know direct to Consumer uh just going online ordering it myself and and now you know if I not not to fit in a plug for the service we offer but we ourselves now offer through own your Labs the same thing where basically it's just a reselling service where you just go to Lab Corp get the blood work yourself and then find out I was doing it rapidly I was getting nmrs I want to say I got eight nmrs over the course of three months and carefully track my food that was literally the very beginning and I and I still stand by rapid um frequency of testing can really illuminate a lot of things very quickly but as you know a lot lot of the studies uh certainly many that you've been a part of and that just happen throughout science they're looking they like to get those tests very infrequently but over a larger population size over lots and lots of people but I feel like we could learn a lot if we got a lot of uh a lot of people who are very motivated maybe in a smaller number but who would do it with a higher frequency which of course is a little bit of a tease for the experiment we'll go go into in a moment but yes that's that's what I think has been very helpful for all of those initial experiments that I was doing to help teach me what my lipids were doing from within my body well to your point I think we have the carrier and the C mentality things change they change somewhat slowly over time so at least in large outcome studies you're looking for bulk effects over a long time and if you're looking for bulk effect over many years um no need to check very frequently and then as as just a matter of clinical habit uh when we see patients in the clinic it's usually at 3mon intervals so if you're going to see somebody at 3month intervals you get the lab close to the time that you're seeing them and left to your imagination is what's happened between when you saw them in the next Lab because you're not looking so you know we we kind of have that as a mindset and and then the third thing are just the kinetics of drugs that we use uh you you think about statins for example they're steady state at six weeks um nobody's checking before six weeks because things aren't quote steady state and as a result you know our mindset of when we check and why we check has always been a bit on the longer side yes now to kind of set up both who and what we're going to be talking about I'll open with and I'm pretty sure you were familiar with it at the time one of probably the uh most talked about experiments I did was the white bread and processed meat experiment what I was seeking to do was I was seeking to see how rapidly I could drop my LDL from its high at uh I want to say was 296 and ultimately dropped it down to 83 in a matter of seven days but this was with a swap I was swapping out my ketogenic diet and swapping in carbohydrates and to be fair that was around a 14-day experiment all said but I would eventually connect with Dr Nick norwitz a PhD out of Axford who now is a Harvard med student um very you know he's he's extremely talented I'm sure you'll agree he had already written several papers by the point that I had met him and he got very excited about this model and he himself is this phenotype that's very uh Central to all of us now this lean mass hyperr he helped me to get uh this into the literature along with our good friend and colleague Adrian soda and many other doctors and researchers and he really wanted to take this an order of magnitude higher so he came up with an experiment that I would like to have you describe but I'll just emphasize before you do that when he was asking me who he would like to partner with who I would suggest I put your name up first and I'm just so thankful that both of you were able to take this on so imagine nobody knows anything about our research or us how would you describe to a colleague what this experiment was and what its results were sure I I would Echo that Nick is very talented uh and a good critical thinker good scientist and so from that perspective uh as you said he himself has the phenotype of being a lean mass hyper responder and for various reasons he's been on keto diet for a long time he's found clinical value in being on a keto diet but um as you apply keto principles depending on the amount of carb restriction you have you can get into this issue of having higher and higher LDL cholesterol um so his idea was to kind of tag on to what you did and that is um if this is driven by a physiology in which you have depleted glucose stores and glycogen from the liver you're a lean individual and your LDL cholesterol has gone up in uh a way due to liid energy model for example could it be the case that adding carbohydrates back to the diet would uh basically reverse this process which resulted in very high LDL so if it's a carbohydrate refeeding that's responsible for the drop in LDL does it matter what carbohydrate you have does it have to be a certain type of carb does it have to be a grain does it have to be a processed carb and so I thought Nick did that was very interesting he said well let's pick a carb that people wouldn't think is very healthy now there could be a lot of things on that list but he chose or Oreo cookies right so nobody would look at Oreo cookies as a health food nobody would look at it as something you would intervene with in somebody's physiology and yet if the idea is that a carb is a carb and if I introduce carbs sufficiently back into a system that is Ary because it's having to transport lots of fat to burn energy right so this was the idea let me in his words you know let let's go on a ketogenic diet stable Baseline usual activity everything as normally is with an LDL cholesterol that's quite High an excessive 350 and let's in that setting introduce Oreo cookies 100 grams of glucose a day in the form of Oreo cookies and see what happens to LDL cholesterol and then after that has happened for a period of time stop that experiment wash out go back to your Baseline everything and then with LDL cholesterol back to a high Baseline line uh try Statin therapy to see what effects Statin would have in lowering LDL as that is one of our most common u means by which we treat patients and and not just any old STA and resu a sta in 20 milligrams will be considered a high-intensity stat and since it takes six weeks or so for that to become steady state you know check this regularly over a period of time to see what the NAT is for the LDL cholesterol on the St so that's the experiment the experiment is to take a case study of somebody who is known lean mass hyperr who has a baseline LDL cholesterol that's quite High uh introdu carbs see what the effect is wash out then once you're back to Baseline treat with statins for a period of six weeks and see what happens and let's not bury the lead what happened oh okay so so that's the design and the experiment was fascinating because just as you showed that carb introduction in the setting of a lean mass hyperresponsive phenotype can rapidly decrease LDL over a 14-day period of time there was a 71% reduction indx LDL cholesterol and it wasn't something that took a while to see I mean it was he had several different Labs performed during that period of time and it came down smartly uh at 14 days the question was is this real and he even checked it again at and 16 days to ensure that this was a a real phenomenology it wasn't just a lab Quirk and so just as you had seen in your experiment he saw in his experiment that carbohydrate reintroduction uh can robustly and rapidly reduce LDL cholesterol in his case by 71% now what happened with the Statin now you would expect 20 milligrams of Rua Statin to give a 45 to 50% reduction in LDL cholesterol now everybody's different but there's a lot of literature out there where you can have an expected response in ni's case it went down about 30% and so you can take away from that a couple of things number one statins did reduce alal cholesterol but not by the magnitude that you saw with carbohydrate reintroduction carbohydrate reintroduction was more than twice as robust at lowering the LDL cholesterol and in a relatively you know a very short period of time at 14 days um and secondly you can look at that 30% reduction in LDL cholesterol say is there more to the store right is there a reason that it wasn't 45 or 50% as might be expected just based on population data so of course the very first thing I want to say that I think all three of us would agree on is this was a demonstration it's to test principles of the LI energy model but we definitely wouldn't want anyone to Come Away with oh so I should instead consume Oreos instead of a Statin as a means of lowering LD cholesterol this was a very specific context again as you mentioned Nick is not only a lean mass Hypes but if you come into our literature you'll find that this tends to be with people who are metabolically healthy and who who can typically um be in this context of where we posit they are fat adapted and therefore we're testing this specific context to see how it Compares so as always as you'll hear me say a million times over please continue to work with your doctor for your individual care now that said yes um I you know as with Nick I was very excited for this experiment because I was predicting much the same results except that the Staten arm was his idea his intervention I myself have not um I've not done any interventions with uh pharmacotherapy and I was impressed that he was willing to go six weeks it's worth emphasizing that while I'm well known for a lot of my n-1 experiments this experiment that he did took five months and I really applaud him for that because it's a lot of dedication and he really deserves the Applause that certainly I'm going to extend him for making this thing happen but that said it really did help to further provide data that we could uh consider when trying to best understand how not only does this phenotype arise but what is it that can be done if the concern is there you know while we continue to get our research on the other end uh with for example list and so forth on whether or not this is a problematic phenotype so a couple of thoughts um there's an element to this we've called lean mass hyp responder and although the phenotype doesn't have a Criterion for leanness in it we know from a variety of data that the leaner the individual the great ER the LDL cholesterol exursion in most cases and so there clearly is a link linkage between leanness in the context of a ketogenic diet low carb diet and the magnitude of LDL increase that might occur and and so this kind of goes back to some uh underlying principles of what may be going on physiologically and why I think the lipid energy model uh has a lot to contribute to the conversation so if you're talking about somebody who's pretty Lan let's say a BMI well below 25 they've been below 20 right somebody who's um working out a lot whose um overall uh physiology is such that um they are challenged to store a lot of carbs challenged to to store a lot of glycogen uh these are folks who have you know really you know gone to a type of physiology that many people don't see that often I mean the type of people we see in our Clinic are more insulin resistant centrally obese um so they're the antithesis of this so how many times we actually get to see folks who by virtue of their diet and lifestyle have attained and maintained a very lean uh and and healthy phenotype uh and at the same time I have chosen for various reasons to be on a ketogenic diet that is in many cases a pretty restrictive in carbohydrates uh well less than 30 grams a day okay so now we have set up a unique experiment in a unique population at least I had not come in contact with that much in my clinical practice you just don't see these people as a clinician that often right so as a result you you have to kind of change your mind set into thinking uh what would it look like for somebody to be that person and still be able to meet all their energy needs physiologically not just for day-to-day activities but for those who are physically active as well and the idea of fat adaptation is one in which you're basically changing your energy substrate primarily from glucose to fatty acid acids all right well that makes sense where the fatty acids coming from and this is where you know things get kind of interesting as well we typically have lots and lots of calories stored in adapost tissue and most of us have uh many many days of Reserve more than we need uh at any moment in time but what if you are in this lean adapted State and you are now burning energy in in a way that as you are consuming fat it's got to be traffic such that it's contributing to lots of your energy demands not to your storage demands right now we going to trying to store we're trying to burn now that's a different model and we have some things in in lipidology that kind of mimic that but the same time um the question is if we are really hard you know using those energies uh that we're consuming immediately we need them we need them now I don't have a lot of Reserve to tap in into then that's going to require the body to do things physiologically in a different way where we're going to have to traffic these things so they're not just available but they're driving our our energy right and so I think these are the nuances in the lipid energy model that while we're still trying to find ways to test some of the steps to make sure that uh with if we can get them you know very detailed uh radio taged uh lipoprotein turnover information which be great to have in the absence of that it's cogent to think that if I'm driving my energy needs through export of vldl and trous rides from the liver and I'm able to quickly take the triglyceride out with lipoprotein lipase and quickly use that energy as the body needs uh then would that be a switch that could turn off quickly if I simply change the substrate to having lots of carbs now now I have a lot of carbs available I didn't have that before but now I do and part of that is going to be well I can burn it but part of that's also going to be that I can replete stores that would be depleted and if I'm repleting stores then will there be the same need for me to massively increase my vldl production and Export to fuel my energy needs U maybe not all right well if if this is a toggle how quickly can this toggle come on and come off in your case it was over a matter of 7 days in this case similarly in a very short period of time the body is adapting and and if you think about it that shouldn't surprise us so much uh you know we find ourselves uh physiologically needing to adapt very quickly to various situations what happens if you're in a plane crash and you're stranded somewhere and you don't have food available your body has to adapt to use its energy stores U you know so that you can make it till you find a meal what if you're one of these hun gatherer societies a meal is not promised to you today you may eat today and not eat for three days and you eat again right so we have to have a way to within certain parameters um utilize energy dynamically and perhaps more dynamically in lipoproteins than we previously had thought again because we take kind of a long view of things you know we have our Pathways and you know Veil L is a triglyceride reach particle that comes out of the liver it gets acted on by lipoprotein lipase the triglyceride is hydrolized and used for energy the particle shrinks and size into an LDL class particle which is then subsequently cleared and that's kind of what we all know working around the edges of that though is the idea well how rapidly can you increase vldl production and how rapidly can you increase lipoprotein lifeas activity and if you could increase increase lipoprotein light base activity a lot could you rapidly deplete vldl particles and such way that you're now left with a boatload of LDL particles in a faster time frame than you would have expected and now your body has to do something with it and that's something's called clearance so how do we clear LDL particles through LDL receptors Lal receptor binds a particle pulls it out of the blood goes back and does it again all right that's the process well can you overwhelm that process can you can you have so many particles that these receptors aren keeping up yes you you can do that uh but the common model we have is that the receptor gets uh injured or is in some way not functional as it should be and we end up clearing poly so the model we have in our in our you know working lexicon is FH where people have an LDL receptor access disorder of any number of types 2,000 different you know defects en counting and at the end of the day I just can't bind and clear particles very well so my problem is a lack of sufficiently functional LDL receptors in a number that could keep up with my needs so that's what we think of is LDL receptors that either don't work well low in number or both well that's not this this is something else this is lots of LDL particles we haven't necessarily done anything to the alal receptor and and left to our imagination well what else could be going on that might influence LDL levels outside of just vldl and and this gets into a lot of wh ifs that I don't have the data for but just what if you know what if um in the process of taking lots of energy in the form of fats into our cells we were to downregulate LDL receptors there is a little bit of data for that with saturated fat but not for necessarily total fat or others but there are models out there where you can downregulate LDL receptors in certain ways okay so maybe that's downregulated maybe we're increasing cholesterol absorption from our gut we're a hyper absorber and because we're absorbing many more steriles we are overwhelming basically the ability of of the system to maintain an adequate LDL response because we know that if we decrease cholesterol absorption we increase the number of Lal receptors uh the converse is if I increase lots of absorption I can downregulate ldal receptors so maybe that's part of it um maybe it's just my old old receptors unless somebody comes along to give me a hand are not going to keep up because we're just overwhelming them with with substrate and and vldl derived LDL particles all of these are possibilities and and the reason I rais it is that uh you know Nick's response to Statin wasn't so great a 30% response to Rasta in 20 milligrams isn't really the norm it's a little less than you would expect now that could just be n physiology that could be some other process that's affecting LDL receptors just a thought or maybe it's just the fact no you just can't keep up your receptors are trying as best they can but we have now overwhelmed them there there are so many particles being produced that the production axis is actually driving the El L and um it it's less about the receptor more about the production so all of those things are elements that we have yet to figure out elements that still require some more work in research but clearly the lipid energy model would anticipate both a rapid ability for this phenotype to uh improve with carbohydrate reintroduction and it did uh much quicker than you would have expected and probably quicker then you can expect an LDL receptor response because LDL receptors aren't going to change in seven days they'll change over a period of time but I'm not aware of data that say that I can take LDL receptors and rapidly increase them in seven days and that's what it would take you know 70% reduction in LDL with carbohydrate reduction if that was due to an LDL receptor issue by itself that'd be very hard to explain I think the liid energy model does a better job of explaining that it may not have all the details we we still have things to work on but again these are I I think we should keep it open mind as to ways in which under certain circumstances lean individuals who possibly have very limited carbohydrate stores for eating a keto diet with very low carbohydrates to begin with that's our that's our test population we don't see that often and then we have a model which could be much more Dynamic than we previously L thought that is very responsive to carbohydrate reintroduction and now we see effects that we would not necessarily have been able to explain easily through a more traditional way Bill you have to know that this is such a cathartic moment for me because we've been chatting about the lipid energy model for a long time and you you quite literally it sounds as if you're now ticking the boxes almost all the boxes for am I correct in that you you yourself feel much stronger that the lipid energy model does indeed have legs in the physiology we're talking about well yeah I I think what I didn't and I'm still struggling with this what what I don't understand really are some of the kinetics involved and and really remember in our previous conversation my question was how quickly can you and that really I think is the the point that has caused me to take a little bit of a longer path to get to the point that I'm thinking that this has more legs than I first thought and unless things can rapidly um be augmented it's going to be a hard model to try to explain the majority of the phenotype that you're seeing right but if if it is the case that liprin lip can be rapidly turned on and rapidly uh delipidated uh uh the LDL particle you to take the triglyceride out rapidly and so now we we are rapidly transitioning into these LDL particles that have to be handled that to me was one of one of the the critical questions of how much do we think the lipid energy model is a part of the process a large part of the process a dominant part of the process there I'm sure are other things but you know we just haven't had that many times where there have been physiologic examples of folks like lean mass Hopper responders and Nick specifically uh who could you know go through a thoughtful experiment a thoughtful process and say uh if the lipid energy model on its face is as we described um then we would expect to see robust rapid changes that would be difficult to explain in other ways I think that's a fair statement and that's where I'm at I I I'm at a loss for alternative explanations that would equally mimic the data collected so I think as a working hypothesis um though it's novel and though it requires a a bit of rethinking uh it's it's reasonable to consider that you know that is um as part of the explanation if not a large part of the explanation that's that's great and for what it's worth I mean I can get a bit let's go ahead and get a little geekier here I think in my case and I'm not speaking to Nicks but in particular in my case with my experiment I believe the re a big part of why the LDL could go down that much further that much faster is in large part from adipocytes or fat cells my fat cells I believe were not just taking up uh more of the lipids but in fact the lipoproteins themselves I think that there's more endocytosis on adipocytes in a period of abundance where you literally are expanding to accommodate the additional contents and we don't really know what that gradient is because we're not usually we're not usually studying healthy populations I wish we would I wish we'd study more healthy populations especially in the fat adapted context and in time I think we will to be able to know these kinds of things but part of what I especially love about Nick's experiment in comparison to mine is that his was just a straight addition so for folks who might say with mine oh well you probably reduced saturated fat and in reducing saturated fat that explains why there' be less LDL his was a straight addition it was literally hypercaloric as in he was consuming more so I think there's both the potential that there was more that could be impacted on that end um as far as like the storage component goes but on top of that it it helps to answer that question on the saturated fat he didn't have a reduction in saturated fat in fact I think the Oreos themselves had a little bit of saturated fat in them as well but the the Dynamic aspect of the physiology that already has been a very difficult thing to sell um particularly to many of the colleagues in your field because a lot of it is assumed to be more of a positive feedback loop that there's a a lack of binding and therefore with this sort of rate limitation things will keep going up and up and up and so forth now that the thing that I want to I want to zero in on that you're doing that no lipidologist to date has ever explained back with the lipid energy model that's one of the most controversial pieces but that I want everybody who is tuning in to understand is you're explaining a a crucial component to lipid energy model that there's actually a net increase of triglycerides leaving the liver on purpose that there's a more that there's a higher recirculation which can explain why there's more of the of the vldl that carries it and alongside coupled with the faster turnover resulting in the higher low density lipoprotein and therefore the higher LDL cholesterol the higher triglyceride export again we only typically see in populations that tend to have a greater level of illness because they have more uh denovo lipogenesis they're literally their livers are overproducing whereas in this case we're positing that there's more recirculating of existing fatty acids to power somebody who is not only um not only metabolically healthy but is typically leaner and might have a reason to be EXP exporting them at a faster and faster rate and that's what we think is happening with Nick that's what we think is happening with many of us who have the Triad such that when we do something like what Nick is doing or something like I was doing we actually see this pronounce changed that quickly but at the same time though we we do have a working model where non-fi free fatty acids and the portal circulation hitting the liver have one of three things either get burned B di oxidation you get processed into lipid and exported in vldl or you become resonant in the liver tissue steatosis so if Noni free fatty acid FL into the LI drives sorry or ketogenesis as well of course right yeah so so you know this is kind of the the comparison contrast right so you know what do we kind of know from a disease model what do we kind of know from the the normal lipidology way it's you know non aerify free fat acids hit the portal circulation and what I just explained occurs well is there another way to get there right and you know so if you can get there another way once you are flooding free fatty acids into the portal circulation you know the same three Fates are are available to you you know you either burn it it becomes resonant in the tissue or you increase export of vldl uh so so really that's the the linkage between what we would consider to be kind of and true physiology and but the the caveat is now I'm am saturating the portal circulation with free fatty acids not due to mechanisms such as our in insulin resistance but through a totally different mechanism so I do want to recall then with regard to where you stand right now with the lipid energy model I remember the first time that you were talking about lean mass hypers it was actually on Rob Wolf's show m ual friend of ours of course and who you've known Rob forever um you at that time were speculating that whether it was in or outside the lipid eny model this was likely a disordered lipid metabolism do you think lean mass hyperresponders have a disordered lipid metabolism um so let me back up and and tell you where my mind was at when I made that statement um so if we are looking for an explanation for the phenotype and we're thinking that there can be an LDL receptor axis in some way involved in this then that is the disordering it is some sort of a change in the LDL receptor axis that's the disordered dis reggulator part that I was speaking to um now one thing we do know about the LDL receptor axis is it's very dynamic as well if you look at a pcsk9 inhibitor for example um if I were to give you an injection of pcsk9 inhibitor and its job as as your viewers know is to reduce or actually remove pcsk9 from circulation this is a sha roomone protein which binds the LDL receptors and limits how many times it can recycle so the LL receptor isn't just a one andone thing it grabs and it recycles many many many times in its normal life until something tells it you can't do that anymore and that shaone protein that prevents recycling this piece P sk9 so if you were to receive a monoclonal antibod that binds avidly to pcsk9 so much so that four hours after an injection you have no detectable circulating PCS can9 which is true of our currently available agents now you can do some kinetic studies that have been done and within four days you have dropped your LDL massively and it's very durable so that is the most rapid axis induction that I have seen is by just taking the regulator plate off the engine letting those LDL receptors just go go go go go with nobody tell them to stop right so that is an example of something can occur very rapid um on the other hand we don't know of things that have the same magnitude or speed of downregulating LDL receptor axis function so my thought when I was speaking on Rob's podcast is for various reasons I I think the elal receptor AIS is important I think the elal receptor AIS could be part of the reason why LDL elevations occur in a kind of a longer term lean mass hyperresponsive physiology and if the LDL axis is somehow perturbed that would be a disregulated state and so that's what that term was meant to imply but I I don't think I got that point across um now outside of any potential LDL receptor axis disorder I don't think the lean uh I don't think liit energy model is an example of disregulated lipid physiology right I think it is an Adaptive physiology but adaptation and disregulation I think are two different things adaptation is what the name implies we're adapting to meet energy demands the body has to have disregulated is one in which I have a normal physiology which is now no longer able to do its normal thing I can't make my LDL receptors by function by number by recycling maintain their normal U jobs if you will their normal role right so if that were part of the scenario where the LDL receptor axis was challenged that would be a disregulated state um I I leave open the idea there can be a LD receptor component to this discussion we don't have data to unpack that yet it wouldn't shock me if we found it but I don't think that the LDL receptor axis would be a compelling um model to explain the data as we have it in hand without having the L lipid energy model as the basis and you might add this to it as part of it um so I guess that's where my thinking has transitioned is from um how rapidly can life lipace really turn on how much can we really overproduce bldl and have this plethora of LDL that just overwhelms my otherwise normal LDL receptor axes that's novel that's not something I've encountered that's not something that I've seen that's not something I treat I hear it I have never experienced it so we'll we'll keep an open mind but you know from my experience set sounds like we have some work to do on the other hand I treat LDL to access disorders all the time that that's my bread and butter as a lipidologist I I encounter people who for any number of reasons uh they have a clearance issue and they need clearance help the production issues I see in lipidology are almost always Tethered to insulin resistance metabolic syndrome that type of disregulated physiology right so to have another explanation where I'm just going to take otherwise healthy person I'm going to put them into a situation where over time they become lean perhaps uh glycogen depleted uh glucose storage depleted um we're going to feed them mostly fat and very little carbs uh and we're going to see what happens to their physiology and if the lipid energy model um is an explanation for the data you would expect that reintroduction of carbs in some manner uh would largely amarate that which is what we've seen I mean that that's what's it's that's right at the end of the day you say well isn't that interesting uh who you know so I you know I continue to transition I let data inform me I try to right uh but it it does take a little time sometime you have to start with the models that you feel most comfortable with that you have the most dat of for that you've used over 30 years and you know you've got to you know try on for size some other and you know there are some models out there that have come and gone and and didn't stick and that's fine uh but we we are still learning and there are still novel um opportunities either by virtue of the patient or by virtue of other factors and to your point we have not had a very um organized effort to understand folks who are very lean who are on a ketogenic diet with low carb intake who have a lean mass Hypes phenotype and then in a very orderly way try to you know pick apart the physiology involved pick apart mechanistically what may be involved pick apart what Therapeutics might or might not be helpful and why and we're beginning to get there we're beginning to to piece those things together and I think that's a credit to you and Nick and many others that have said you know this is worthy of uh you know more thoughtful efforts I've made the prediction for a long time uh Nick Adrien we all agree and I I'm picking up that you probably agree as well I predict the lean mass Hypes phenotype will actually teach us a whole new frontier of lipidology I just I just genuinely feel like there's already so much that we've seen thus far do you agree I think could I I think it could help us in several ways number one I I think just the understanding of how dyamic lipid physiology Lin physiology is how how quickly can the body adapt change for various reasons um you don't get that impression from your third-year medical school lecture on lipoprotein metet you don't get that impression from having people come to your clinic with high LL cholesterol and you told them to do something with their therapetic lifestyle they didn't do and now you're left with trying to make it go down with a pill you don't get this idea that things are Abid you know very very Dynamic and and adaptative so you have to find models and and people for whom this is a real thing and then you have to you know open your mind of the fact that maybe there are additional factors going on that don't really get fully explained by what the conventional wisdom is so in that way number one it's going to help us it's going to help expand our understanding of lipoprotein physiology secondly it's going to help us I believe in something that's very important to me and that is the time dependency of potential injurious effects of arthrogenic lipoproteins and and you and I have talked about this a lot and this is something that that I have said for many many many years um the calculus for risk is how bad for how long the calculus for benefit is how good for how long and how long is the thing that never gets discussed right we we do these studies and populations where you have a baseline data set and you infer based on the B line data you have that's what that person has been for a very long period of time that may or may not be true my experience in the clinic is somebody comes to me with abnormal lipoprotein values my first question is how long has it been this way and many times people say you're the first person to ever asked me that um I'll give you a quick example a 70 plus year old lady came to me and she said I want you to tell me I don't need a Statin I said well who told you you needed a Statin well my primary care doctor why did he say you need to stting look at my lamps LDL cholesterol 210 how long has it been that way you're the first person to ask me that she pulls a binder out Flip Flip Flip Flip Flip Flip Flip five years ago five years ago it went up prior to that it had been fine and so now my interest Peaks I said well you know there are reasons why things change over time and we went through the whole workup uh she had hypothyroidism that had not been identified or managed I said okay so at least from what you're showing me I think this is a recent problem high LDL you haven't had it for a long time and in the world I live in how high for how long is very important so it could be that maybe your arteries look great maybe you have arteries that don't need to be treated so we get a c score zero a zero coronary calcium score I said per the guy lines at your age a zero calcium score makes statins optional for five years and she said thank you very much and she was happy as a clan when she left but three things came out of that number one how long number two is there end organ evidence of disease right so these are things that sometimes don't get discussed enough and then if you don't have any end organ evidence check again somewhere down the road right things can change and and the guidelines in my opinion at least over the past five to 10 years have put a premium on knowing more than just your lipids they've put a premium on integrating your clinical history risk enhancing factors Imaging studies more advanced test to get a better picture of who is this person who has an LDL of whatever okay and and that's really what you have said a lot as well and that is you know who are these people what's going on with these people it may be that these people uh to First inspection look much better than you would have expected uh maybe we don't see evidence of plaque in their vessels in which case what would you do well you have several options option one is you can do nothing option two is you could try to lower punitive risk factors because it's what you do you could follow them over time with some sort of sensitive uh Imaging uh technology that could detect change over time um those are all options but left to your imagination is what's the expectation in the first place do we expect these people to have plaque if if we expect them to have plaque how much plaque uh how quickly should plaque be changing over time are there reasons that mitigate that Beyond just what we see in front of us right so this is all important stuff and and I I do I don't like to be a reduction all the time by any means but but I do believe you can do a little reductionism here by saying is there plaque I me if you have plaque in your vessels that to me is a different conversation than people who are free of disease if you're free of disease you're free of disease that's a different conversation you have plaque something has turned on that we don't want to get worse and that's where I think you you in I am in my rights talk to somebody and say listen don't smoke exercise eat healthy have a reasonable body weight don't have punitive risk factors that go unchecked which means you're not going to be hypertensive and let it go and check don't be diabetic and let it go and check don't have a super high apob and let it go and check these are bad ideas these can fuel existing disease and so we start the conversation you have disease now what are we going to do about if you don't have any evidence of disease that's a different conversation and I'm open to the idea just like in this lady who comes to me with a 210 LDL cholesterol that seems to have only been for a few years she had no evidence of plaque at least by C score which isn't the most sensitive but you know at least by C score similarly let's take lame M hyper responders they have a high oldal cholesterol they come in and they get imaged some may have plaque some may not have plaque what do you tell them do you have the same message for everybody no would you tell the people who have plaque we need to have a different conversation on the people who have no black I think so so that's this is good timing in a sense because as you know we're doing the study out of lanquist uh by our mutual friend Dr Matt budoff by the way you when last week chatted you said to pass off a high to Dr budoff and I did and he passed a high back so I can tell you that here on camera um we of course are especially interested in always were for the subgroup of whatever that population was going to be in our existing lean mass Hypes cohorts and to not just look at the presentation of plaque that might come at Baseline but for that group the progression which is why it's a longitudinal study so for those who in their first scan had any amount of plaque even if it's a low amount how much did that increase at a population level within that population it's worth emphasizing that and for those who aren't as uh geeky and and into this conversation um you and I will both bring up the example of like the smoker who smoked three packs a day their whole life and they didn't get lung cancer is not proof that smoking doesn't cause lung cancer in the same way if you know if we have um one person who has very high LDL and they have a low plaque score and it doesn't move or something that's not in and of itself something that can be taken out of context we're interested in the population so our endpoint of interest is non-calcified plaque volume at a population level does does our whole core her show an increase in non-calcified plaque and of course we're going to be especially interested in this group as you were kind of bringing up now if somebody does have a if they're like say Nick and they have LDL that's hovering around 400 500 but they have no existing plaque as indicated by CT and geography as you said that's a different conversation you would have than somebody who did have plaque and my guess is you would say this regardless of whether they had a small amount of plaque or a large amount of plaque the only difference is the level of urgency you would probably push forward um but if if you say for example uh connected with somebody who had a CAC of let's say 10 and they were age 75 right so that's so they have some amount of calcification at 75 that might be low but there's still some amount of calcification there Mass Hypes they have an LDL of 400 you yourself would still feel like they should take action to lower their LDL would would that be correct with the caveat yes um so you said a couple things that I want to just touch on there number one is um when we have a number other than zero we want to put context around it and one way to put context around it is by adjusting the raw number by age gender and ethnicity and so Mesa does this there's a Mesa calculator that's available online to anybody and it takes into account you know your ethnicity your sex uh your age and says Okay a 10 at 75 is something very low from a population percentile perspective it's low um 10 and a 40y old is different right so now we have two different points of reference uh do we expect some amount of plaque can occur in an otherwise healthy aging population yes okay so as a consequence of Aging some aerosis occurs we used to call this hardening of the arteries right old people get hearty of the arteries so you have to be able to expect that somebody somewhere along the line has a number other than zero so a number other than zero doesn't not necessarily to me mean that there's great urgency to go right around okay I I do think you have to put context around it so how old are you what else is going on what percentile do this represent is this our first look is this longitudinal over time has it changed over time all of these are important things to look at now would I still feel comfortable somebody staying at 400 with any amount of plaque no I just wouldn't why because we believe apob containing L of proteins feed black development all right so if that's part of the calculus don't give the plaque things to eat if I just take it down there's less substrate to get into black and potentially that could be helpful so you know first Do no harm it's one of the first things we we think of in medicine what's the worst thing that could happen worst thing could happen is I leave somebody at a 400 with some small amount of plaque and they worsen because I did not take steps to ameliorate a punitive risk factor okay so I would default into that's not a safe place for you to stay for a long time we need to bring that down that would be my and for that reason on the other hand uh give you an example of a guy who came to me uh in his 20s and he says I'm here for you to tell me my Aries are fine why would you have that question dad had event 35 his grandfather had an event Before 40 his paternal uncle had an event Before 40 he has FH he happened to see a colleague of mine in another city had a corn artery calcium score that was high di in his 20s and he wanted me to tell him his arteries were okay well now that's fear speaking right he's just you in denial that nice River in Africa I I have no problem here uh and so the urgency was clear all right so you have this physiology you have this terrible family history you have abnormal plaque buy a lot for your age dude we need to hold every lever available to us to slow this spright train down before crashes into you all right so there's the urgency at extreme and then at another is we need to take care of that but is it right now as low as I can get it or else right so these are the the artistic aspects of medicine that we all have to Grapple with and every good clinician I know uh thinks similarly of you know what's going to happen if I I leave this person the way I find them that's the way you start the conversation in your mind and as you're having conversation with the patient if you believe based on your best knowledge that leaving them the way you find them is harmful then finding some path forward that's different than the way they present it to you is critical it doesn't mean you have to pull the biggest gun out of your tool kit right away but you you can't leave them there because the consequence of leaving them there would be unacceptable now does treating anybody give them a guarantee of success absolutely not there is no guarantee for Success so in my fellowship my mentor asked us one time gentleman who's a good candidate for medical therapy and his answer was what happens if you don't do anything it's not doing anything that gives you the reason to want to do something different because not doing anything has a high likelihood something bad happening and the more that is the end of the patient presentation the more urgency you have and the less that is the end point of the patient's presentation the less urgency you have that doesn't mean that you're going to ignore things but I do think you have to have that sort of context in one way or another that you build around the individual I think it it does it poses a challenge in this case though because among your colleagues there's a very wide spectrum of opinion on ldls Independent contribution towards atherosclerosis and I should emphasize by the way that I consider you a moderate you're you're not an endall Beall which is part of why you bring up uh not only the relevance of whether or not there's physical disease detectable with a CT angiogram or a CAC but on top of that your own platform which we'll talk about at the end uh really cares a lot about all of these different vectors and trying to composite them together to to best assess risk not leaning on any particular marker but a lot of your colleagues do where they feel that pretty much everything can come down to the common driving factor of apob lipoproteins but that's you wouldn't say that for you I mean let me put it this way if you had to give it a percentage at a population level how much do Apo lipoproteins independently cont contribute to the process of atherosclerosis uh so I'll I'll not give you a number because I don't know exactly how we come up with that number in a population context due to a lot of confounding variables what what I would say is there's another way to come to the conclusion that apob b is important but not all-encompassing and here's an example if we believe that apob contain life proteins are the only reasonable way to decrease future events then we would look at studies where people are being treated in various ways and say well how much improvement am I getting by lowering radically apob one example would be forier the forier study is 27,000 people everybody has disease and risk factors half get Statin Placebo half get Statin repatha okay there's a marked reduction in event in a short period of time well that's great um did they still have events anyway yes there were still people who were having events in the more aggressively treated group all right so we have not aurated and wiped out events we've improved them we haven't wiped them out okay that's one point of reference another point of reference if we look at the reduced study now this was a trial of individuals who either had diabetes and multiple risk factors or known aosc cardiovascular disease they were all on state-of-the-art care including Statin therapy including ACE inhibitors beta blockers Etc they have well-managed LDL cholesterol but they had triglyceride 150 and higher these individuals randomized to get four grams of pure EPA versus placebo added to their stat and they had a marked reduction in heart attack stroke cardiovascular death in a very short period of time and had a number of needed to treat for any event that was less than 10 now how do I take those two points of reference and bring them together if I don't acknowledge that there's more going on than just the number of AP containing microproteins see so this is the way I think that you can look at the totality of data and realize um don't do the bad things do do the good things there are two different things in play here okay don't don't continue to hit your Hammer with a thumb all right Bam Bam Bam but that's not the only thing that's going to make you feel better you know don't hit your Hammer with a thumb uh so uh I I guess you know we are learning more and more and in directly as well as indirectly uh the Oreo experiment the Lan Mass hyper responder data the Imaging data that Matt has LED and will continue to add to our new learnings that have to be layered on top of the totality of data where at the end of the day we say it is advantageous to not have increased numbers of AP contained lipo proteins and and I'm an apob guy have been for years and years I I'm not going to walk away from that but I am going to put context around it is true that if I radically lower my apob uh I can look at wagan data using optimal tomography uh Imaging of lesions from inside the vessel and I can tell you in 50 weeks if you compare individuals with a Statin and an LDL cholesterol of about 90 versus Statin repatha and an LDL cholesterol of about 30 there is much much better thickening of the fiber's cap much less lipid in the wall of the artery we have lots of data to suggest that we can stabilize and regress plaque in part by how aggressively we lower LDL yes but the Cherry data would also say that if we add EPA to a Statin we can also get La Improvement through totally unrelated means due to things like decreased lipoprotein oxidation decreased foam cell formation decreased fibers cap rupture all sorts of things that are not mediated by the number of apob containing lipo proteins so I think if we're going to be honest and we're going to let all the state of speak to us we have to have a very inclusive understanding of how our patients can get in trouble as well as whether our patient is in trouble when one thing is out of bounds but it's not telling us the whole story there is a bit of a challenge I think though in fact it's a a part of why I really wanted to do the study that we're doing now up until this point in time we've not gotten prospective data on people with extremely high LDL cholesterol that didn't have some form of a dysfunction or illness or or you know Baseline inflammation I think that you've probably heard the um the analogy that you're usually looking for your keys where the light is the brightest you know that that comic that constantly gets reused I I think I can understand that to an extent and this kind of brings us back to Brown and Goldstein Brown and Goldstein when they were looking at children with homozygous FH it was regularly said this is probably the strongest data yet but liid hypothesis because these children had both sky high LDL and apob alongside very rapidly developing cardiovascular disease but as I've said many times over I think that there's still a dysfunction of lipid metabolism that's relevant in this case as Nick would say that's broken and I think that that's kind of important we needed to come into a population like lean mass hyporesponders who we posit may have a functional lipid metabolism and actually check to see if this risk converts are people with comparable levels to homozygous FH Nick is one such example are they going to have the same rapid development of atherosclerosis that we see with the patients of brown and Goldstein we just didn't have this kind of data until now which is what we're looking at with the existing list study what do you think so there there are a couple of interesting points to that right just to to unpack a couple things we have some new tools that again let time be a variable more so than we have previously thought mandalian randomization studies okay and it's just a tool it's not an endall be all but it basically says we know the human genome we know that there are various genetic factors that are associated with various things and you can ask questions from this knowledge you can say if you have lifelong low LDL levels what happens to your rates of cardiovascular disease if you have lifelong high LDL levels what happens and so from the and randomization data as well as experiments of nature we do see that change over time can be understood in different ways so to your point you can have a very high LDL from birth homozygous FH and in a short period of time those people get into some real trouble you can have a more modest uh ettis eh or poly genetic high LDL if manifested for a long period of time that can also be consequential but it has to be a lot longer because it takes much much more exposure to to end up with plaque in in that model so the model is that you know the quantity over time is is the concept now what's Curious is um if you take the pcsk9 deficiency experiment um the way that we came up with this class of medicines PCS can Inhibitors was by identifying a cohort of individuals with low LDL for a lifetime who had very low aspd events and they're just missing this enzyme that we attack with repath orent okay so what did they do they just allowed their LDL receptors to go add nauseum with nobody telling them to stop that's a super normal physiologic approach nothing's broken there necessarily other than they're just using lots of recirculation of LDL receptors to maintain a low apop and LDL level over time and they have very few events now these people also you know in large numbers um could have other things going on but just again the idea that maintaining low LDL over time uh has fewer events Associated than high deal over time I think that's a safe statement with lots of caveats to go around it so the question that you're asking is uh how much time and I guess you know I've I've teased you a little bit in some conversations of as you know we're looking at this longitudinal data with CTA my question is how long does it take to develop disease not whether disease develops right so so that's consistent with my thinking is uh Baseline similar to other folks who have had it for a lot longer interesting but over time how long does it take for this physiology and the answer could be never that's an answer it could be it takes a really really long time much longer than you ever expected which means that there are factors which blunt the impact of apob in a favorable way that we hadn't really been able to a portion until then or it could be that um yeah it's not as bad as some but it's certainly no walk in the park and these guys got to be careful and that's why to me the longitudinal data is going to be really really illustrative to us we don't know the answer we don't know the answer if you're an apob rules the world guy you're just waiting for them to fall off the cliff right if you're a guy who says apob is is causal but insufficient then this may be a group which has lots going for it that's going to dampen that LDL response it's part of why I I wanted to talk about this before those data are actually in is because at this moment in time the present lipid hypothesis particularly given we have some folks with extremely high levels of LDL comparable to Nick norwitz would presumably both present with plaque at Baseline and would likely had show a rapid progression of that plaque the reason is is because unlike the children that brown and Goldstein were looking at they have five Decades of lifelong LDL exposure which apparently per the Baseline data looks like it's about average it you're probably familiar with milligram years that's a that's a heuristic comparable to pack years um so for for people who are not familiar pack years are when they're trying to give a sense of exposure for say smoking cigarettes and if you're smoking three packs a year as opposed to smoking one pack then that adds to the cumulative total so three packs a year for five years means 15 pack years by the same token with milligram years it's the same expectation on exposure over time the I I think the what was the name of the little girl that brown and Goldstein were examining originally you actually knew name yeah is um it's just escaping me oh yeah anyway um she had an LDL of my memory serves of somewhere around 780 so let's say we round that to 800 by age three she had a stable angina again I I hate even talking about this because it's just so heartbreaking to know that would happen um but that's that's milligram years of 2400 If We R round it up to 800 and uh you'd have about 4,800 when she had her first event which was at age six and this I think is part of the basis of where they came up with the number 5,000 milligram years I'm actually doing this math right now with our cohort and granted it's not part of the official study but you can see the milligram years for both not only our cohort but this match analysis we'll get a chance to talk about in a moment so you can actually see what that exposure would be over time and then add the 4.7 years that's the average that they've been lean mass hyperresponders even before uh even at the Baseline scans to see what the expected level is at a population for what their total plaque score would probably be now I suspect you and I both probably agree on this even though it's it's been 50 years and we want to absolutely give reverence to Brown and Goldstein for their to work I do think there is a difference between monogenetic FH and LDL levels that associate with cardiovascular disease in that context in everybody else not even just lean mass hypers spers I think there is a relevance to that lipid metabolism Beyond just the higher exposure of LDL and apob B and I think our data here will be the first of its kind because it's the first that I'm aware of that actually had people that got to those levels without having something like monogenetic FH or very novel poly gentic FH that could like get it to those levels you being a lipidologist you could actually confirm whether or not I'm correct on that is that probably a correct assumption so far oh several things um one of the things we talk a lot about for FH is that this is occurring in the background of someone who is growing and developing so the heart is growing and developing we are growing and developing cells are reproducing now organs are going through change and then we go through uh physiologic changes into adulthood and during all of this time uh the response of tissues to super high LDL in those very young years can be very different than the response of tissues in adults who acquire high LDL in their adult physiology uh so that's another part of this conversation that often isn't discussed is that you know this it not a little adult who got older this is a child who's going going through normal child development in the S of very high LDL which does things uniquely uh differently than a 40-year-old who says for various reasons I want to go on a ketogen diet because it's going to help me with some problem that I'm I'm dealing with and there are a lot of problems that a ketogenic diet helps with and there are a lot of reasons why people would want to go on a ketogenic diet right so you can say I have something in my life I'm going on ketogen diet I'm really lean I've tried super hard to to live well and now I'm a lean mass hyper respond uh so what you're saying is the clock would change at that point he's he's had a certain LDL and then the LDL went into a different you Direction so the pack year exposure would have been this and now we're adding more to the pack year exposure because now we have this so the slope has changed so what might have taken him maybe to age 65 to get to that threshold is now going to take him less time if he stays on this slope right so that's kind of the model is that we believe that if this soft I will emphasize a very soft threshold of milligram years is to be reached then the quicker you reach it the sooner you would expect to see PLA and the longer it takes you to reach that the perhaps less plaque you might see and all of us are on some sort of slope and the inflection point in this conversation is lame Mass hyperresponders incited by um the ketogenic diet and so trying to model that is is Artistic because you don't really in many cases know what their slope was to begin with you know what their slope is once they declare themselves as a lame ass hyperr so then you have a little bit of difficulty trying to add something unless you have previous data to what is the new phenotype right but but outside that you're you're correct that you know the longer they stay uh at a faster slope the quicker they'll hit that threshold but aren't we kind of benefiting by the fact that there is a decent number I mean granted we're not in the thousands but given that we have a 100 we can somewhat speculate a normal distribution like they're probably not several standard deviations outside of the central tendency I know I'm getting into statistics but I know you know what I'm talking about here basically would would it be reasonable to um speculate that our population particularly given they gave us are pre lean mass Hypes phenotype lipid levels and they happen to have landed like literally right down the line of the central average that probably they had as a population average is levels throughout their life um I think that that's a reasonable speculation at least to the extent to where I doubt it would impact my opinion too substantially to just assume that they might be much lower um before they happen to have gotten the lipid panel that just happened to be before they then adopted the low carb diet what do you think um I think with 100 people that sounds like a lot it's a really small sample size for a population conversation and and there are a lot of things just as lipidol I'll tell you that you know might surprise you as far as what would impact um lipoprotein levels before a lean mass hyperr phenotype in response to a ketogenic diet so H you know you have to start somewhere you have to have a model and you can pause it with the model they had a median LDL cholesterol going in and then they did this okay that's a model there's nothing wrong with that now whether or not it's an accurate model I don't know without data we wouldn't be able to say but you have to start somewhere un let's just say okay we're going to say median is median and they're they're median folks all right and if they were median then you would expect the line to be here and you would expect the line to intersect this threshold line here and now for a period of 4 point some OD years they are on this trajectory and if they maintained this then I would expect they would hit this Threshold at this time and that's an exercise there's nothing wrong with that um whether not it you know accurately captures that cohort of people I I couldn't say but as a working hypothesis you could you could say you know we were less now we're more and being more and a lot more we're we're going to potentially get to that line quicker I think that it's make no mistake we're really kind of in the weeds of new right now I know a lot of people watching and for that matter a lot of people who follow yourself myself on X they're looking for just the the hard black and white answer can I just can I either fully accept uh this study as the end all be all and then not like read or watch another study past this point or for that matter can I completely dismiss it and not feel like there's a there's one thing that's kind of a flaw with it that I feel like I can completely toss the data out and you and I we're really we're really not even in those zones at all we're both excited about this data it's going to build on further data it's you know all of us are accepting that these are the first and initial steps and what may be a really uh powerful New Frontier obviously I'm a little biased when I say that but that's what's kind of neat about this is until now we just were not actually getting I mean we just talked a lot about the mechanistic but now we can talk about the risk we're literally getting CT angiograms on folks who have been at these levels for a long time and I have to tell you I I don't know if I ever got a chance to tell you this uh publicly or privately I really didn't know what our Baseline numbers were going to be until it really shook out um that they would be in the 200s the high 200s and for the span of time it is it's almost half a decade at these levels which I like because then I feel as though we're having a pretty powerful first step to be able to better ascertain this data I don't know about you I'm very excited to see what the longitudinal scans will show us I think to me that's where the story is uh the setup for the story as I call it is what we have right now the setup is um we are learning about lass hyperresponders their physiology their mechanisms it's uh not surprising that individuals may take a while to develop plaque if there's a fairly abrupt change LDL cholesterol what I'm open to is the fact that for various reasons we still don't understand I can I can wrap my head around various uh data that may come in the future I can wrap my head around the idea that if we were to follow these people with CTO over a long period of time that there is accumulation of plaque that is greater in those with greater LDL and lesser than those with less LDL generally speaking I can wrap my head around the idea that people with existing plaque might change over time differently than people who had no plaque on their Baseline CTA I can wrap my head around that I can also wrap my head around the fact that um in a physiology that we have not seen in large clinical trials represented in our typical types of intervention trials that some of these individuals may be able to be uh almost symbiotic with this high LDL and be less diseased than expected over a period of time uh and wouldn't that be interesting wouldn't it be because you know we go back to a statement you made earlier you know the the three pack day smoker who got away with it right and we say yeah that's an outlier three- pack day smoker got away with it and I can look at FH patients of mine who are in their 60s they haven't had an event yet did they get away with it or is there more going on than simply their LDL and if that's the case to what degree is there more going on in the Mass hyperr which may buffer them a lot in in the context of having high LDL and and maybe it's the case that there is an intermediate ground and the intermediate ground is and if you had no pla going in and became a lass hyper responder man we might be surprised how long you hang in there before stuff happens but if you had plaque at Baseline and then you became a lass hyper responder you could behave very different right this is all conjecture I have no idea I haven't seen the data you haven't seen we haven't generated the data yet but I can Envision all of those possibilities and be very intrigued to see where the data take us I'm gonna kind of walk this into that that exact term that you use buffer just a little bit further and I want to put this on the table with extra emphasis that it is strictly a hypothesis but I do believe this dysfunction and lipid metabolism is a crucial confounder that I don't think gets as much attention as I would like now this isn't to say that I don't think the lipid hypothesis uh would be entirely invalidated if I if it proves true but it's possible that this dysfunction and lipid metabolism that Associates with the very real mechanistic component that is plaque development with apob liper proteins can actually be an issue with us being able to detect that true relationship so let me unpack that a little bit better in a sense I think I think many of us you me Nick we will say apob lipoproteins are causal in the process of atherosclerosis but that doesn't necessarily give us as much useful information when stated that way for example I can also say macras are causal in the process of atheroslerosis if I had a drug that could reduce the differentiation of you know vcam of monocytes into macrophases into your arterial wall you would predict as I would that you'll end up with less plaque but probably that comes at a trade-off for the immunosuppressants that it is right by the same token we we don't know yet what the tradeoffs really are and in all the contexts of lowering LDL you mentioned the pcsk9 loss of function uh mutation for example it's absolutely true the data show that they tend to have lower incidents of for example heart attacks but they don't actually have greater longevity they don't live longer and that's why I've kind of wanted to get into that data I'm hoping Adrian soda may actually have something um that we're working on soon to to better understand what what's increasing to offset the change in the actual cardiovascular disease mortality and that's that I think is an important question to to in to rise to raise when only looking at this in the context of very small margins of potential benefit um and this isn't to say that we shouldn't ignore the potential benefit only that we should know if there is a trade-off so in the case with lean mass hyperresponders who have who are on the ketogenic diet for efficacious reasons they have epilepsy or they have a type 1 diabetes or something their choice is much more immediate they you could you could go to them right now and you could say I know for sure you know you'll shave off a month of the end of your life because you'll have a heart attack to that much sooner and I know many who would be like I'll take that right now I'll take five months I don't care if I can have less seizures today right but that's a question we're not going to be able to answer very easily with our um with our study and I said that in the announcement of the study we can answer the big magnitude question pretty quickly do lean mass Hy responders with an LDL and NX range of 4500 are they developing atheroslerosis very quickly and if they aren't at a population level I that many like yourself will say that might be true but probably on net they'll have a higher relative amount of plaque progression at a population level than if they had everything else kept the same but their LDL was lower does that make sense it does um and I smiled in the middle of that because you're aware that um as a as a side area of interest for many many years um has been the question of mortality and is mortality uh an end point which we understand well is mortality something that is contributed to by a variety of factors of which a has nothing to do with it and if mortality is contributed to by factors of which apob has nothing to do with it should we consider apob lowering as a means by which people should significantly live longer um I I think that's a curious question to ask and and you're aware of data that our group has generated over time to try to better understand the relationships of metabolic uh variables IM mortality so at the end of the day um we have seen in well validated data sets that measures of metabolic vulnerability and inflammation are eerily good at predicting people's death irrespective of their cause of death irrespective of cancer COPD ethos sclerosis Etc and and the model there would say kind of in in a way getting back to a I think a point you were making that is metabolically healthy people may be in really good shape depending on what outcome you're interested in if you're interested in the outcome of mortality metabolically healthy people could be in really good shape regardless whether it's death from heart attack or stroke or cancer or what have you and so we get back to the idea of the the basic value of being metabolically healthy versus individuals who are metabolically challenged and vulnerable and those individuals are the one set up for a poor outcome mortality regardless of mechanism now you know that wouldn't that be an interesting concept that we we really have undervalued metabolic Health we have undervalue the contribution to mortality of being metabolically healthy we have overemphasized risk factors which have really nothing to do with your metabolic vulnerability and at the end of the day it's the metabolically vulnerable guy who is at risk of bad outcomes um and I really believe that model has some value to it and as I think of that model I am not put off at all by the fact that uh Lori and AP may or may not improve mortality that doesn't bother me a bit it does not bother me a bit that people can look at shortterm LDL lowering trials five years duration and see in the cohorts that have been studied uh a lack of a significant signal for mortality Improvement but a signal for significant event Improvement it doesn't bother me a bit and I don't think in any way that undermines the uh lipid hypothesis or the value of AP be as a causal risk factor I think all of that is still intact now there are certain people who would hear those statements and say I've lost my mind but I I think what you have to consider is well think about infectious disease if I have two individuals who have a similar organism and a similar side of infection and one lives and one dies they both get the same antibiotic the general explanation for that is the host the person who lived was a better host they were stronger they were they were not as vulnerable and the person who came to the disease and the illness uh was not as as robust and the antibiotic in that model is kind of like a club I hand you a club you go beat off the people who are trying to hurt you if I'm too weak to wield a club it's not going to help you if if I'm just a compromised individual to begin with antibiotic is not Magic just compromised so thinking through those lens and these are data that I'll present at your conference uh you know what do we understand in a new Fresh way about metabolic Health inflammation and mortality and if at the end of the day we need to open our aperture to see that these are key factors and and go right into the example you used maccrage foam cell formation is the committed step of aerosis period and comment but I integrated many factors to get to maccrage foam cells it wasn't just apob and it wasn't just the maccrage it was a lot of factors which cess into maccrage foam cell formation so this Nexus that apob b is what's being eaten is true not all apob is being eaten not all macro fages are eating apob all right so so there are things going on there that are nuanced and very important and and I think just as you have challenged us to think broadly about lipid metabolism mechanisms and outcomes in lemass hyperresponders I want to challenge us to think broadly about mortality and what are right expectations for individuals in a variety of scenarios one of which is high LDL to your point uh what if there's more than just high LDL to it what if at the end of the exercise size we have a cohort of individuals who are more metabolically vulnerable and inflamed and those who are less so and with the same LDL driver what would you expect not the same outcome right so so this sort of uh more comprehensive integrative thinking is is where we have opportunities um I I hope we take advantage of those opportunities I hope we ask these types of questions so that at the end of the day we not only know more but we can help individuals better and that that to me is very motivating I want to be able as best I can to give an individual a a better understanding of where they are what is it that could be improved and what are the steps available to them should they choose to do that to to get better um rather than saying a thousand people like you have this General risk and all thousand are going to be treated the same way because that's what we do uh that's a terrible way to practice medicine in my opinion and it certainly doesn't take advantage of any new learnings uh we'll have to wrap up here in a sec I wanted to really thank you you've been so generous with your time but I did want to do one more call back to Nick and his enormous Drive in making this experiment happen and again thank you for being the senior author on this paper uh Bill I'm I'm so hardened by this conversation and how well you describe the lipid energy model that I'm I'm hoping I can count on you to continue to keep these conversations going with your friends and colleagues uh certainly this is a a big deal to me it's a watershed moment I think and I think in 2024 you know at a minimum we're going to get to get we're going to see a lot more physiology we're going to see a lot more uh research projects put together that can help us test the tenants of this model and I'm I love how the Oreo versus Staten experiment will be a great jumping on off point so once again thanks to both you and Nick for making this happen well it's been my pleasure um you know it's a journey right just remember we're on a journey and we all come at this from different perspectives from different uh starting points and and different models that we're working on um and I shared with you what some of the uh kind of trip wires were for me and trying to better understand lipid energy model and you know what would it take for me to uh you know take that more seriously what would it take for me in order to say yeah this is more than just wouldn't it be nice if uh this actually would be something that I I think is a new learning that deserves some additional attention and um you know we're still thinking through what data would help us next and I think that that's what I want to help you and Nick and and my colleagues with is you know okay so from what we've discuss today what are next steps at multiple different levels to improve our understanding test our hypotheses uh do we have the model nailed is the model largely right but needs some improvement due to new learnings are there additional parts of this that can be nuanced and layered uh wouldn't surprise me if that's the case but we're moving in the right direction and I think if you are objective and and you think you know in a critical manner you would look at the data as we have today and come to the conclusion that yeah that this is a a reasonable cogent uh model to work with and we need to know more about please tell us about your amazing platform it's it's incredible and I I know I hinted to it a little bit earlier but but give me the full pitch like right now sure well Precision Health reports is a company that seeks to do what the guidelines ask us to do we want to take an individual's history their Biometrics their biomarkers nearly 4 risk enhancing factors and six sets of guidelines and focus that in a very laser Sharp Way on the individuals so that they will know their individual risk of diabetes heart attack and stroke and as we've said it's more than just major risk factors is more than what's my LDL it is being able to appreciate all of these details now um my colleagues who've done this for a long time are pretty good at taking a history and looking at these pieces of information and to an opinion about somebody's risk um that is something that can take a while both in terms of gathering that Acumen and also in terms of trying to decide um how much do I wait this that and the other so what we want to do is make it super super simple um if we want to know diabetes heart attack and stroke risk and we need by guidelines to have history Biometrics biomarkers risk enhancing factors and harmonization of guidelines how am I going to do all five of those things every patient that I see with the time constraints of a usual patient encounter so what we did at Precision Health reports would say let's make it easy I'm going to write one for Dave I want Dave felin to have a cardiometabolic risk assessment what would happen Dave would get an email that says Dave Dr Cromwell would like for you to get a cardiometabolic risk assessment would you answer a few questions it's a smart questionnaire you say no it turns off questions you say yes it turns on questions at the end of five or so you've answered the questions next thing is you get a lab requisition that says we need to get some lab work like what lipids apob lpir lipoprotein insulin resistance score like a systemic inflammation lpla glucose hemoglobin A1 suit you get that drawn and then computers do what computers do well integrate over a very short period of time and boom Now Dave has a highly specific report that reacts to to all of that information so that now you know metabolically what's going on am I insulin sensitive or resistant it's my metabolic Health what my glucose what my eight-year gender specific diabetic risk in light of my insulin sensitivity and glucose what is the starting point by guidelines my calculated risk what are all my risk- enhancing factors what's my accumulative risk and then what are some next things to consider including non-invasive Imaging right so it's going to prompt you and say at the end of the day you probably ought to talk to your provider about a few things including has anybody ever looked at your arteries because that can be a key piece of information or if you've told me it it'll have that in there and so Precision Health reports gives that as a baseline report and the followup report says and I can tell you how you're doing over time are things getting better are you improving and then you can say I did what you what my doctor said my doctor said I was eating too many carbs and I was too lazy and I needed to change and I adopted a better diet and I adopted better lifestyle and I did it and now I'm looking again and I'm better but I'm not better in ways that necessarily are oh look at my LDL good now watch my lpir score improve look at my metabolic syndrome severity index improve look at my your diabetic risk improve look at all these metabolic parameters that are improving oh and by the way you're probably trending well in some conventional things including apob as well but the big picture is your metabolic health is going in the right direction and so now you can be motivated you can continue along a path where you've been reinforced because it's like people who are on a diet thinking that I just need to lose a little weight well that goes along for a while but what happens when weight plateaus there are non weight winds that physiologically could be in play and we do people a disservice by only focusing on one parameter like weight or LDL we want to focus on the metabolic picture in total and say and this is you I I just want to add to that the I I've always thought that this was the future how do you how do you get the expertise of a Dr William Cromwell to be your doctor everywhere well part of the problem is is you're usually getting referred when it's too late like the general practitioner is working with the patient and the things that they should be watching for the things they should be testing for are what you instead put in the platform now for preventative care to to address these things now especially if the if an alarm is going off that not necessarily a very well-intentioned general practitioner couldn't have detected and so if you're excited about the Advent of AR Ai and all the tools that you've been seeing you were putting this out before AI was as big as it is because you're trying to tackle that very same problem space in a smart way to work towards true healthare as opposed to sick care so I just I have to thank you so much I've gone through the the platform myself and and I'm I'm happy to definitely carry that along Bill where can people find you so a couple ways uh we can go straight to the website Precision healthreport dcom uh we're also on X I still call it Twitter I guess it's X and and other uh platforms but Precision Health reports is the company Precision healthreport decom is where you can get information uh we're happy to also uh work through on your Labs right so we have a presence on on your portal as well where people can uh buy it themselves we we have what we call beta X model we have people who are interested in their own health and they're able to come to us directly and get it some come to us through their provider and the provider orders it uh we really want to be very flexible in making sure that as people are consuming information about themselves we can meet them where they are thank you so much for joining and uh I'm I'm very excited to see what projects we have ahead yep me too thanks a lot

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: TaFF1HddewM (https://youtu.be/TaFF1HddewM) ===

hi guys for seven years you've heard me talk about lean mass hyperresponders that Triad of high LDL High HDL and low triglycerides on a low carb diet observationally I emphasized then as I do now that this pattern tends to associate with leaner folks in fact the leaner one is when very low carb the higher their LDL cholesterol tended to go which is in line with the lipid energy model and for the same seven years the experts pushed back most of whom said no it's really the saturated fat that is in a low curb diet that's what explains these higher levels of LDL then in 2021 I started collaborating with Adrien soda and Nick norwitz and let me tell you Adrien is scary brilliant with numbers he has crunched all our data for our lean mass Hypes papers but these data were observational then he came up with a brilliant idea last year why not take other existing studies specifically the gold standard randomized control trials where at least one arm is low carb and from there see how much their body mass index BMI correlated with LDL cholesterol I'm thrilled to share this paper has just now been published we were able to get 41 rcts in total for this sweepy criteria a very sizable number for this meta analysis and sure enough in line with our very first paper on the lean mass Hypes survey data this meta regression showed LDL cholesterol went up for those who had a BMI below 25 and down for those with a BMI above 35 and yes as you can see the lener population was the higher the LDL cholesterol would go these analyses were run many different ways to double will check this correlation when adjusting for weight loss same relationship publication bias no that was tested as well did one study have too much influence in bias the outcome no again these results were the same after checking removal of any one of the 41 rcts and to get a bit geeky and borrowed directly from adrianne's Fantastic tweet thread he says here since orthogonal estimates of nonlinear models are hard to interpret we built graphs of their predictions to ease this comparison note bmi's influence on the change of LDL cholesterol is way larger than saturated fat intakes influence and finally let me close with one more tweet from that thread remember that none of these participants chose to go low carb and all data came from profess professional researchers it's unlikely that the lean mass Hypes phenotype is due to increased saturated fat intake or familial hypercholesterolemia in line with the lipid energy model BMI explains it way better please consider reading Adrian's complete thread and please check out Nick's video that breaks this down in much more detail both are linked in the description down below now just out of curiosity who is still placing Wagers saturated fat is is more relevant than body mass for lean mass hyperresponders I'd like to set up a bing pool so that we could help fund our next study but in all seriousness thank you again Adrien for your endless Innovation and helping us Advance the math of our model and for everyone else thank you for watching

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: WRbe8u11yuE (https://youtu.be/WRbe8u11yuE) ===

trust me when I say 2024 is shaping up to be the Breakthrough year in research I've been waiting for and if you're just tuning in let's do a quick timeline recap I'm a software and platform engineer it's been far removed from research much less the medical field until around 9 years ago in 2015 my life changed forever when I saw my cholesterol Skyrocket after going on a low carb ketogenic diet I started to learn everything I could around lipidology which is the field of science that focuses on cholesterol and how it moves around in the body and as an engineer I couldn't help but notice how much this system resembles a network and that's when I became obsessed I embarked on a series of meticulous self-experiments presenting my observations and results on my blog the cholesterol code and I continued to develop this hypothesis known as the lipid energy model to help explain this phenomenon of high cholesterol on a low carb diet and in 2017 I wrote and presented on this phenotype lean mass hyperresponders like me they don't just have high LDL cholesterol they likewise have high HDL cholesterol and low triglycerides on a ketogenic diet these three things together this lipid Triad turned out to be very common in the low carb Community particularly among lean metabolically healthy people in fact this model suggests it actually might be more expected by this group but does it pose a greater risk of heart disease we all wanted to know and get real research to find out but there was a problem again I'm not a formerly trained researcher nor did I have connections to any I kept writing to lipidologists and going to their conferences hoping to spark their interest but they really didn't feel it was worth their time to study a group with high LDL cholesterol because it's already assumed that they are at super high risk to start with so in 2019 I put in a lot of time and money to start a public charity called The Citizen Science Foundation to raise money and study lean mass hyperresponders I asked the low carb Community to help me pay for this groundbreaking research directly and you know what it worked ours is the largest crowdfunded study on cholesterol and heart disease and we found a good Research Center in the list Institute under the leadership of Highly decorated principal investigator Dr Matthew budoff this study would capture Advanced heart scan data on lean mass hyperresponders but it would take years to put together and complete and in the meantime we had another problem the mechanistic hypothesis of the lipid energy model and the lean mass Hypes phenotype were still unpublished I mean sure I had extensive posts and presentations on my work but we needed to formalize this and get it into literature and then emerged Nick norwitz and Adrian soda in 2021 both phds from Oxford who together with other doctors and researchers helped to both publish and expand on this work taking it an order of magnitude higher we published five papers on this over the last two years but now things are really picking up including the very first data from our study at list last month in December Dr budoff presented a match analysis and it was quite shocking our cohort with extremely high LDL cholesterol when compared with another closely matched group of average levels had no significant difference in plaque burden even trending in the more beneficial Direction while these explosive data were presented a few weeks ago they won't be published until you guessed it this year but I have to give a particular shout out to Nick norwitz who will be kicking off 2024 with a bang he's about to publish a self-experiment he undertook comparing Oreo cookies to Statin therapy for cholesterol lowering if that sounds like an extremely odd kind of experiment that was exactly the point and you won't believe what it shows that is unless you're already familiar with our work lastly as excited as we are for this first major study at lest nearing completion we're already putting together a bigger and more robust companion study real science after all is built on replication and we figured why not let's go ahead and have our own fundraising event as a conference itself which we're calling Kai or collaborative science conference it will be held here in Las Vegas March 15th to the 16th go to cosi.org for details needless to say I truly do believe this year 2024 will be transformative for This research across many vectors and importantly I think we'll see a ground swell of attention from the scientific Community as these data emerge everything I've mentioned here is linked and listed down below thanks again to everyone who's helped us to get here

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: whdee7n8DO0 (https://youtu.be/whdee7n8DO0) ===

all right continuing on in the next part I hope this is the last part uh we'll see if I can bang it all out ex size is going to decrease the amount of plaque that they likely had especially their whole life before that four years multiple studies show that even just sitting more is associated with increased plaque from this one those bars represent stenosis or sitting more stenosis or blockage of the artery and then this one out of Dallas says quote each hour of sedentary time was associated with a 14% increase in coronary artery first of all I'm I'm just going to completely grant that I would expect the same Association that people who are sedentary more often will have a higher level of plaque development but this actually gets us back to healthy user bias because what also are the habits of those people who would choose to be sedentary for that period of time and in addition to that we haven't determined total causal directionality because there also is a factor with plaque itself impacting whether you would choose to be sedentary for example somebody with heavy occlusion in the coronary arteries especially if they're on the verge of developing a stable angina they're not going to have a lot of energy levels so they're going to be more likely to be sitting on the couch for example this is important because anytime studies are shown and I think that they're very interesting as always epidemiology is very interesting for hypothesis generation they're not great at proving causality unless you get high up in the threshold of Bradford Hill which we'll get into another time but but a general Association is not one in which I'm going to quickly jump to the conclusion is causal and that's why I think it's always important to emphasize that aspect of it calcium again they didn't match for physical activity next we have BMI which I think is especially damning when you consider this statistically significant BMI difference from like 222 to 20 6 which again averages overweight you know heavier people are likely to have been heavier for longer and you know for all sorts of Reason have a larger AOS scalotic burden again before those 4.7 years but also current okay couple points one is that yes uh Tom Cruz has a BMI of 26 Arnold Schwarzenegger I think has a BMI of 30 Joe Rogan I think he's what 26 or 27 maybe higher the point I was making from before is BMI is generally if you're looking at a population average is generally pretty good at figuring out uh proportionality towards a population that's over uh overweight on the fat Mass aspect with like say typical Americans but if you grab a cohorted people that have the kind of lipid levels that we're talking about my expectation is that they're probably going to have a greater proportional amount of muscle mass compared to the average American now to be fair I think it's worth factchecking myself on the association so I'm going to connect with somebody like Adrian soda go into inhan data and create those uh means like you see in the Miami Heart column where looking at a BMI of say 25.8 uh which like I said is you know just into the overweight category but with those same means and say the uh metabolic markers like lipids uh with the A1C with the CRP Etc and see if I'm right I might be wrong you know it's it's worth testing that hypothesis at least on the association that brings me to this study which was done on people approximately 60 years old so quite comparable to that 55-year-old average in the lmhr study well looking to this chart we can see BMI and plaque burden is very well linked and well it is dwarfed by people in the Obesity areas you know we can see on this chart where each group would land if we zoom in it is the case that the people in the control groups BMI would have about twice the amount of plaque as the people at the BMI where the lmhr are with kindness Mike I here's what I'd like to here's what I'd like to suggest I'd like to suggest you show this clip to Obby bitman he is a prominent vegan uh know him well he's very familiar with uh statistics and he could explain what it is that I would likely have been critical of with what you're showing right now but I'll just say that I'm fairly confident he can correct me if I'm wrong that he would object to what it is you're doing and he'll explain why and I just like I said I just kind of want to I want to be a gentleman here I think you'll find that that's kind of important to understand particularly if you're um drawing conclusions on statistical significance in other places in this video r r r oh so if you were to say adjust the lmhr plaque numbers to include BMI all of a sudden we'd probably be looking at a completely different picture and yes well increased BMI means just more that's an important point I don't want to miss that it would be a completely different picture if adjusting for BMI so you're so correct me if I'm wrong it sounds as if what you're suggesting Mike is that the differential between the Miami har at 123 mean average and the lean mass Hypes uh cohort at 272 the top 10% of the top 1% that that difference in the 4.7 years of exposure which comes to around 700 mg years of LDL cholesterol that that would be mitigated by this difference in BMI uh from the 25.8 down to the 22.5 that's that's that's an interesting assertion and and certainly something for which I would I'd be very interested to know if then you would apply this to other studies and how well they themselves are tracking BMI and those Association Associated changes with plaque bir more calories and things that could increase Arcos that way of course means you're likely to have more visceral fat which is directly inflammatory and can increase heart disease risk but now let's get into what I believe are the biggest flaws of all and that comes from our whistleblower let's just call him a whistleblower Dr Spencer nadolski who claims to have had a major role in the original study design before things were changed up a bit and why did they want him on there you know maybe it's cuz he has some Renown as the medical director at Weight Watchers he went to Twitter and tweeted like 20 things but for the reason that he was kicked out he said quote so my biggest gripe is that this is being used to promote that ldlc is not harmful in fact it was the reason I went to the IRB essentially the studies ethical review board to express my concerns and was kicked out of the study but it's not just about what the data is being used to do he said that there were actual problems with the study first of all that they kicked out people who had a coronary artery calcium score greater than zero so quote one of the biggest Goofs in the beginning was excluding those with a history of atherosclerosis we did this for safety purposes of course because it wouldn't be ethical to have those with cardiovasc disease to continue to have a 190 and higher LDL because of this a handful of young subjects were excluded due to having positive CAC score this is super whack because they obviously could have gotten clogged arteries on their keto diet so they're finding the people that did get that and then just like excluding them from the study and being like look their plaque isn't higher and to my knowledge the exclusion criteria for the control group was not as stringent feel free to correct me but then being younger reminds me of this 2022 case Okay hold it for a second I have to there's there's a lot I want to respond to there but I need to clear the air with these three things and I had them drafted and needed to get clearance on just this um one I can't comment on anything internal with the study as it is ongoing it involves confidential information among multiple parties and everyone attached to the study knows this if I shared anything internal even just to set the record straight I risk getting kicked out of the study myself that said I can generally share that I've seen I've been tagged into many ass floating around some of them are accurate some are inaccurate and and some are just demonstrably false two that said if one or more of our investigators had a material concern they can file it with the IRB known as the institutional review board it's literally the purpose of having an IRB approved study to ensure oversight and three lastly importantly I've maintained an exhaustive timeline for formal purpose purposes such as IRB review for example so if at the completion of the study we want to go into the complete story I'd be up for it provided all parties discussed give their consent of course if they if they had the expectation of confidentiality going in as often is the case then we should we should respect that but let me just opt in myself right now I think it could be very productive I think we can actually I mean it'd be interesting to to you know discuss the whole story and as always I would want to try to uh keep it as respectful as possible but you know I think it's it's an interesting story to tell let just put it that way report of two car hi guys this is me recording in the future because I was in the editing Bay I'm you know was completing part two and this long comment came in from Mike the vegan that uh I think did a fairly good job of summarizing a lot of what gets addressed in the video ahead and I sort of thought what the heck I'll just go ahead and leave what I've already edited in place for part two and then get to this comment because I think it'll actually help move the conversation along a lot better so I guess this is almost like a you know a a part two and then a part 2.5 so let's just go ahead and jump right into it okay Mike starts out says I appreciate that you're going to do uh more parts but I'm afraid most people will just leave it here and miss the roughly 20 study argument I presented after the video cut I've already lost in their mind and the video didn't even leave the starting box well first and foremost I I don't think that there's there's a there's not a a person versus person thing I mean I realize that we're kind of debating and challenging each other to some extent but uh not not to sound Pious at all the the winner is truth like this is a truth seeking exercise that's actually what I really love about science and if You' followed my personal story at all you'll you'll know I'm definitely not in this for personal gain especially given the the um the career trajectory I had before jumping into this I genuinely want to get the answer to these two questions and so I feel from a truth seeking exercise having these debates can be helpful not sometimes they they Veer off and you know we'll kind of see how this one goes but uh I I I'm very much in favor of this process and the process bringing us to an understanding of what's really happening I wanted I want to both know about the mechanistic aspect with regard to lip energy model and I want to know about the risk of course although I think most of us are more interested in the risk to get answered as soon as possible uh I grade this out because you mentioned how some people were um characterizing personal aspects of what your of your appearance and what you're saying and which I don't really want to honor if you know me I I I'm not a big fan of personal attacks uh but at the same time I don't try to police other people's behavior but I will just sort of say as a general for everybody listening I do appreciate it when you can take the time to keep it within the bounds of reason and studies and so on and so forth so if I can help you know provide some tone um that's you know something I love the most he continues uh here's a weeker summation study links under my video in the description above which is great feel free to check them out number one that sketchy comment about not matching exercise was because as the two studies I cited in the next study next sentence mention being sedentary is highly correlated with plaque with each hour of sedentary time equating to a plus 14% increase in plaque a randomized trial would aim to match this because of how powerful it can be and keto people exercise more and keto people exercise more I'm not sure if you can just state that broadly uh I don't think it is sketchy to look back at the data if you see twice the level of activity in the keto group then you know it is confounding variable that conventionally would be adjusted for again I'm interested in anything all data period that we could gather from both corts it's just the catches that it all takes time it takes money it's it's a matter of who you can pay to um gather that data and also what the willingness of the participants are to use it this is our first study go round I would depending on how much they would be willing to give up I love to get as much as I could from any group now that said I do want to be sure that it's well understood that we're talking about associative data so if you see an association if a study comes forward and it says something like this that there's a correlation between each hour of of sedentary behavior and resulting uh increase in plaque again is it resulting or is it that people who would choose to sit and play video games are also going to have additional habits that associate with um other causal factors that can create the plaque burden maybe they eat more junk food and so forth which is why the healthy user bias was of such interest for me for part one so you're getting to exactly what I get very concerned about when looking at diet studies because often what they try to do to control for this as you're describing there uh is they use statistical instruments like statistical uh like sensitivity analyses and they try to estimate how much each of these different other variables are themselves causal so that they can eliminate them but those are all based on assumptions we don't know for sure how much each thing is actually truly causal until we take greater effort with things like randomized control trials where we know that's the only variable of interest that we've really had modification for and has been well powered for so all of this is to say I'm not going to jump to any assumptions with regard to Association based research and I realize that that's very stock and standard for nutrition epidemiology but I'm I just I really have a high standard when it comes to making claims of causality in general and again you can look at my prior social media you'll find I'm very keen on not using the term CLE very of like literally do a search on CLE in my uh Twitter feed and uh other social media and you'll see just how much I talk about Bradford Hill and how much um I prefer using Association and you know getting myself to use the term Association as much as possible sorry to really Linger on this but it's extremely important because I feel like a lot of times people bring up studies as though boom it's as good as if you found the association you found the cause and I'm I just do not share that level of confidence that I know a lot of other people in the space share the BMI difference regarding regardless of the original intent of the study has a large bearing on plaque as a study I cited showed the BMI difference between groups roughly equated to twofold difference in plaque while I understand that you consider leanness unique lean mass Hypes prerequisite here it's not prerequisite it's it's it's observational that we see greater leanness with that Tri out of the of the three markers uh this is one of the most powerful factors that should have been matched since it could have actually you you'd be surprised it's it's very difficult to find this particular profile in the general en population of this BMI and with these lipids and this um uh this level of Health I was impressed at how much we were able to match or I should say that the Lun was statistician was able to match with regard to the Miami Heart cohort I of course wasn't expecting that the BMI would match closely but I'll I'll again emphasize what I said earlier in part two which is that I think that if you look at the the uh High HDL the low triglycerides the A1C the hscrp and you look at that in a group that has a comparable BMI they going to be a lot of people that look more like say Tom Cruz than somebody who you might normally think of when you think of somebody who's overweight they're probably going to uh High have higher relative lean muscle mass for example um I I kind of know this because there's a lot of people who share their lipid data with me that are outside of low carb so I've gotten a bit used to this pattern recognition but to be fair it could also be biased on my part because I just tend to see the patterns of what people are going to bring forward to me in the first place that's why I want to do the inhan data uh reanalysis with somebody like Adrien soda who's great with these stats and would help to better elucidate that uh then there were points made by Spencer nski so I'll just I'll save you some time I kind of said it a little bit earlier in the three things that I kind of got clearanced to be able to say but once again I cannot speak to things that are internal that involve confidentiality across multiple parties they have the expectation that those things will remain confidential and being that they're part of an IRB uh approved study that if it needs to be dealt with it gets dealt with with the IRB again the principal investigator is the god of a study and you want to be sure that you're always in sync with the principal investigator if you're on the outs with them because there's something untour going on that's why you have an IRB because then you can take that to the IRB and that's a group of people who take the job very seriously that group of people will review the complaint that's being filed and you know if it if it's material they can stop a state they can shut down a study and do like I I know many stories of irbs uh just from being in the space for a while where some things were going on that um definitely required um um a shutting down of the the study so I bring this forward because I think a lot of people don't actually realize just how controlled these things are and why it's so important for them to be handled internally up until the point in which the study is over and then again as I also said in my statement um for everybody who would like to uh opt in for uh discussing what they might have otherwise had an expectation for confidentiality for I myself will opt in like right away for you know the the whole postmortem discussion on the backstory because I think it'd be interesting and it it might be productive so food for Tha on this topic I also mentioned the case report of two carnivore dieters with high LDL age 28 and 32 with 90th and 97th percentile artery clogging who would have likely been excluded skewing the data yeah I'll just I'll say for a lot of statements like this for which you're being very reliant on a source of information outside of lanquist let's just put a pin in it because we can revisit all of these claims such as these two would have been excluded from our study um and we can look at it you know in light of the facts that are part of what's been happening with the study and so forth It's just again I can't really comment on in the meantime but but with regard to this data being of special relevance to you I would want to emphasize that this is a case Series so these are two cases and as is the situation with all case studies there's the risk of selection bias even if it's unconscious you might be a a doctor who believes that a particular exposure has a particular harm and you may have a patient pool that numbers in the tens or hundreds and then you're spotting the pattern that you expected but you don't actually know how much of that is by you know your own biases again not even necessarily that it's conscious this is why you do prospective studies case studies are retrospective they're looking backwards and then determining and don't get me wrong case studies are very important and and I highly encourage people to make as many case studies around lean mass hypers as possible we have one of our own Ours from last year we've done just one and that one was on somebody who had an LDL in the 500s and in the language of our case study you can go read it right now we're quite careful on our language emphasizing the limitation of it being a case study and that of course there's more data that's needed and understandably people might say oh you chose this one because it fit the expectation of what you uh believe is typical of the population and that that would be a fair concern because for all we know we'd be doing that unconsciously but our case report doesn't negate these case reports or any other case reports that's why we do prospective data you determine the rules in advance and then you execute against those rules to find out what the outcome is in that population my familiar hypercholesterolemia argument citing a study in which people generally Escape coronary artery disease for 25 to 32 years if they have more minor heterog heterozygous FH yet they still have a 13 times higher risk of coronary artery disease heterozygous FH has the same LDL 190 cut off as lean mass hypers sponder study this lower level of FH is generally associated with a three times risk of death despite the super high L okay I'm just I'm just going to quickly jump right to this it's it's super super important that everybody watching this right now understands this key distinction between the granular and the macro so it's true true it can take decades for somebody to develop symptomatic heart disease such that there doesn't need to be a scanner you literally feel it you either have a heart attack you actually have an event or you develop symptoms such as angina or there there are many other ways there are many other symptoms that can be suggested that you might have a heart attack that are symptomatic because there are because its Advanced plaque you actually have for example an occlusion in your la d That's so strong that it's really affecting the blood flow it's really um impacting your energy levels Etc okay that's Advanced heart disease that's macro that's large scale micro is what we're picking up with CT and geography CT and geographies are state-of-the-art machines that can pick up plaques as small as 1 millimeter or smaller in some cases they they have enormous spatial resolution that that's microscopic that is that is extremely powerful and that's why there's a level of confidence that you can expect with something like a one-year longitudinal study because of just how tightly they can get down there to see what's really happening I mean and I'm not even talking just plaque volume there's now a level for which they can characterize the plaques themselves whether it's for example a fatty streak or a thin fibrous cap I I highly recommend that everybody take the time to really learn more about CT and geography if they're interested in this research that we're doing and to please stop confusing these two it's Advanced heart disease where no scanner is needed yes takes a long time but that's over a course of plaque building and building building over years and years and years you you want if you're especially feeling the urgency we are and trying to confirm or disconfirm the specific Association of LDL with this outcome of black particularly at LDL levels this High you want high resolution that's the whole point of doing CT and geography so please bear that in mind when looking at any of these studies uh and particularly we're looking at CCTA you know I I may have it in a future I'm not sure if I can take the time now but there's one of my favorite uh papers is on children who have homozygous familial hypercholesteremia and I'm probably going to use it for my milligram years um video which points out that our cohort the ones with 272 their average is above five out of the six children and four out of those six children have advanced disease they have multiple sites of atherosclerosis with less milligram years than our folks in the um lean mass hypers smart cohort again this is auxiliary to the whole study that we're doing right now and it's really just more for general interest but it's really crucial that everybody understand the difference between these two metrics Advanced disease versus any plaque detection and whatever its level of progression is in CT angiography the lemass Hypes and FH are not different enough since all LDL can oxidize true I spent several minutes showcasing studies on LDL oxidation risk of heem of hemir intake heterocyc okay oxidize blood sugar spikes on too much protein all of which would be more dangerous with higher LDL um again these are associational uh I'll get to another comment once I finish this real quick I then showcase a Framingham data showing that the lower triglycerides of lean mass hypers isn't enough to offer protection again associative while I didn't include it in the video the higher HDL lean mass hyperresponders has presented as a bonus uh of over 80 milligrams per deciliter is the exact cut off associated in the 2022 study with twice the all cause mortality and almost twice the cardiov yeah so listen I I'll absolutely concede all of these points in that if these associations are indeed causal then they they should show up in our population data we should absolutely be seeing this uh higher development of plaque and here's the here's the good news we're not getting an ox LDL assay because I really don't care for the ox LDL assay it's past fail and it doesn't get granular but I do like the oxidized phospholipid assay and if I can get a little bit geeky for just a moment what it is it's picking up at a granular level the uh per particle degree of oxidation as as opposed to whether a particle is oxidized or not the prior assay the oxldl it tends to just associate directly with uh LDL particle count and there are other people who could tell you better than I can why that assay has that problem including Samus um but oxidized phospholipid is pretty strong and I'm very interested in how it will associate with lean mass hypers spawners which is why we're getting it it's actually one of the assays I wanted to be sure that we have had included in the study it's not a major point of interest but it's one that I'm very excited for us to finally be able to see because I speculate that on a per apob particle basis they're going to have lower level of oxidized phospholipid given existing um of surveillance I guess you could say data anecdotal data that's been reported to us in the groups I don't want to get too Lost In The Weeds on that one but if really interested in the oxidized LDL exposure hypothesis per se then you might find this actually pretty interesting not enough is being done to let people know they are likely not lean mass hyporesponders even if they think they are uh the truth is even if you believe this low quality of data compared to the melan randomization studies it probably doesn't apply to you unfortunately believe this lower quality of data okay yeah yeah I mean again because we're literally capturing this relationship this um observing how much the LDL and the corresponding uh correlation of plaque is we'll have some understanding of it one of the values in doing this at such a granular level is that we don't have to wait till people have full-blown um Advanced cardiovascular disease this is this is where having CT angiography really helps us out so it's true if melan Rand ization studies if all of the nutrition you know that that links red meat and saturated fat and low fiber and so forth all the cardiovascular disease this is almost like a shotgun effect all of these things are taking place at the same time in the same population because this population often is ticking all of the boxes for what might be considered a terrible diet uh from a cardiovascular standpoint so I and yeah if you throw in melan randomization if you if you feel strongly about those as a metric of um of evidence then that then we would likely see this we'd likely see this uh causal relationship in this population I know I'm just some annoying vegan who you guys can't stand but I am also warning vegans about the risk of becoming lean mass responder on vegan keto so that isn't some anti-at bias uh actually for what it's worth I'll I'll uh confirm what you're saying in that I have said the same thing to people who've considered doing plant-base but going keto and up until really just recently the presumption has always been so strong that it's with saturated fat specifically that it's basically impossible that somebody couldn't be uh Animal product free and then exhibit the lean mass Hypes phenotype but I can tell you directly that I've had a lot of anal data that shows this and again if following the logic all the way through if higher LDL is independently for arcaris I will completely agree with the point that you're making which for what it's worth again gets back to the very first paper we published on lean mass hyperresponders where we show how people can typically reverse it if they're metabolically healthy they may want to consider um reintroduction of some amount of carbohydrates because that brings the the LDL down substantially per the lipid energy model we're discussing so this is again another benefit of the research on the mechanistic side in that if we do ultimately uh come to find that we're confirming the lipid hypothesis then it's great we're spring-loaded with a lot more information on what people can do about it especially if they still want to keep to a lower carb diet but then it turns out that they can't be keto in this circumstance where they're especially lean and metabolically healthy we'll see many people are convincing themselves that they are invincible or will become invincible when they lose that weight on keto on their keto diet and that's dangerous I appreciate Sean's warning but his video was maybe 80% celebration 20% warning I listen I Mike I do have to kind of bring to your attention that it's more helpful if you don't edit things in such a way that it looks like it's entirely celebration if you want to get Sean's full context please at least try to keep it somewhat balanced in what the edit is that you have try to summarize it a little bit more that's a bit more on the Steelman position than the straw man position I I can I can tell you for me personally while I can't speak to the people who follow my work I can tell you that um I personally I I tend to think a source of information is strong when they seem like they take great care at conveying what the position of a certain person is if if they're saying something about a person especially if they're showing a clip of that person and then I go and Chase down what the actual statement was and it the context is very different then I have a more difficult time trusting that Source but you know it's never too late to change that that I think it's a behavior worth changing I myself would have preferred that you had a a more um accurate summation of where sha was coming from I didn't feel like it was uh entirely celebratory I felt like those comments that he was making in like right there in the middle were pretty strong comments and he emphasized the preliminary nature and that we need more data and so forth and he should be appreciated for that that's that's a very moderate position relative to a lot of uh the comments that you've seen and and have showcased them just just wanted to put that out there I think of the people who are seeing the results and even paying for the trial seeing a lean mass Hypes in the mirror when their risk is through the roof rejoicing in this good news about LDL as someone with an m i don't want more people to get coronary artery disease from this that is why poor M Mike as kenberry put it responded to this report thanks for reading for people who got this far yeah um well I'm reading it I'm I'm going to turn it into a video so you can you can trust that this is actually going to be going up on uh my channel and I I appreciate you offering your additional thoughts I appreciate this dialogue and um you know I'm I respect what degree you want to bring forward any concerns that you have even if there's a lot that we don't yet know but that's what we're doing now we are actively gathering this data so that we can better we can get a better perspective of what's ahead and for what it's worth I think that you'll be very interested in the research we have planned I can't speak to it too much yet until uh we actually get the the contracts in place and we also have to get IRB approval for those as well before we can actually announce them more broadly into their specifics uh but I think you'll appreciate that they're they're expanding further on these data again assuming these data are worth expanding on it could be that we come to February and the longitudinal data does showcase that there's been you know a substantial increase at a population level for plaque in our cohort don't know we've only been able to see of course this match analysis uh which is separate from the original and primary end points that we have for non-calcified plaque volume progression anyway I hope this video didn't get insanely long but I think this was kind of helpful for us to tag into my existing part two and I I hope this was helpful um again I appreciate the dialog I'll concede up front though as it's a final thought I don't really have a lot of time for making these I'm not really a professional YouTuber per se and I don't want to do a ton of reaction videos uh but that said Mike I I did want to take a little time to give a thoughtful response to yours and uh so shout out to you and um your following and your your fellow vegans and uh to everybody else who's been able to participate in this discussion productively

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: QVb1ZKyQ3VQ (https://youtu.be/QVb1ZKyQ3VQ) ===

hi guys I got a heads up that a popular YouTuber Mike the vegan has published a video on our lean mass hyper responder study I'm going to go ahead and do a reaction video but if it gets long I may split it into Parts hey it's Mike here and today does this new keto report prove that super high LDL does not cause atherosclerosis on a keto diet we're talking about the preliminary results from the lean mass hyper responder study where people on a keto diet get super high LDL I metion briefly in the past but the results are having people who are on a keto diet low carb carnivore diet whatever shouting from the rooftops about the findings with a lot of people now okay just like a lot of things that were said all at the same time it's worth emphasizing that we're interested in this research we're interested in a high level of LDL as resulting from the response seemingly a fat adaptation and it's in this particular group it's in this particular group that's part of our entry criteria so of course we would not be in favor of any reductionist opinion either by uh supporters or detractors alike in trying to uh suggest that it's it's to be applied across all populations regardless of context so I think that's important because I feel like a lot of times there's a um an effort that I think all of us should be making toward steel Manning the position of those involved so just just wanted to get that part out of there right away especially with everything that was said on the front feeling that it's okay to chug endless amounts of saturated fat and increase your LDL to 500 because it's not going to do any damage and speaking of shouting from the rooftops here is Sean Baker carnivore Dieter telling his following to share these results far and wide so the data that I've been talking about is finally in this is super exciting stuff something I think is incredibly incredibly powerful you know this particular set of population low carb lean other otherwise metabolically healthy that it appears that cardiovascular disease is not developing or not developing at any significant rate at all so that may give some of you guys that are in this situation some level of relief as you can see all of his carnivore um I feel like that that video might have been somewhat edited because I I don't I'm going to have to come back and like see if I can insert something if I'm right because I do remember when Sean released that video it was shortly after Bud off's presentation and I think he had a lot of qualifying language that was actually within that video so the data that I've been talking about is finally in it's is super exciting stuff something I think is incredibly incredibly powerful you know this particular set of population low carb lean otherwise metabolically healthy that it appears that cardiovascular disease is not developing or not developing at any significant rate at all so that may give some of you guys that are in this situation some level of relief right so what does this mean does it mean that you can ignore LDL cholesterol it doesn't matter no it doesn't mean that and Dr budoff in his 17 minute presentation says that no you cannot ignore that he's still a believer in LDL cholesterol being causal to cardiovascular disease but what he is saying is that it appears to be in some instances you know this particular set of population low carb lean otherwise metabolically healthy that it appears that cardiovascular disease is not developing or not developing at any significant rate at all so that may give some of you guys that are in this situation some level of relief you know his suggestion was if you have high cholesterol but all the other markers look good get S of an Imaging set maybe get a coronary calcium score and if it is low or zero then you're probably pretty good now that I'm done with the edit I actually like Shan's answer even better than when I first heard it it he carried a lot of the Nuance he emphasized that there's the specificity of this population he he emphasized the preliminary nature of this data but on top of that he he brought up Dr budda's position with regard to LDL and even further that for as an answer to a question Dr budoff gave in his original lecture to someone in the audience that even if somebody does have high LDL he himself would feel more comfortable if there was further efforts towards getting Imaging and to confirm or disconfirm whether or not for example they have a zeroc CAC which again I think is actually a very moderate position because then you're you're determining whether or not there's existing disease which is very prognostic uh towards potential outcome so while Sean and I definitely disagree on a number of different things uh I'm I thought that this was such a great answer from him him and to be perfectly honest I'm I'm a little disappointed with the edit because I feel like the edit makes it sound as if he's just more categorically dismissive of LDL as per the you know this data that was just discussed by Dr budoff so my hope is I can kind of talk more people on all sides and trying to steal man each other's position and to do our best to carry the Nuance for each other I know some keto dieters will watch this and be like oh my God this guy's vegan let's just see what stupid stuff he has to say about this but no a lot of the criticisms that I'm going to be leving here are by people that are not vegan you know they're people that are even more or less in the same camp of low carb for example more or less a whistleblower that helped author the study initially but was then later kicked out over their concerns yep it's going to get juicy and I will say I want to present lean mass hyper responder as a concept in a fair way because I believe that people on a vegan keto diet despite even potentially eating lower saturated fat metabolically could end up in the same situation so we should know about it all right let's go starting out with the basics of lean mass hyperresponders for those that aren't aware if we call it lmhr that's what I'm referring to and this term was originally coined by low carb Dieter Dave Feldman and this really refers to leaner people people with a lower BMI that when they go on a keto diet their LDL skyrockets and they actually now have some particular figures for this they say an LDL cholesterol greater than or equal to 200 Mig per dcil HDL over 80 and triglycerides under 70 and many of these people have an LDL between 500 or 1,000 Mig per Deiter and again the conventional cut off is 100 for increased risk well saturated fat certainly plays a role here it appears that you know we can see people playing with their saturated fat intake and not making much of a difference with their already super high LDL so in that sense so far I'm really impressed Mike is actually not only going through a research but he he identifies the case report that showed how the saturated fat was not or rather the LDL was not following the saturated fat in this uh very hyper cholesterol emic case report that we published last year it it really emphasized the you know more of that data at that point especially at those levels uh with of course the natural caveats that is a case report but that's so far his his review of our literature has been pretty solid somebody who is more lean has less fat m who is a vegan going on a vegan keto diet might be able to get there as well and the question is why does this happen and they have developed a whole theory that has to do with the lipid metabolism of these people which we'll touch on later on in the video but first I do just want to thank the YouTube channel plant Chompers Chris in particular for highlighting this thank you Chris this is this is great I mean usually outside of the low carb Community we don't see this level of care taken towards looking and reviewing at the literature so big big shout out to Chris mccal plant Choppers for helping out Mike the vegan on this to lmhr thing and then interviewing the researchers but let's just get right into the basics of the report I say report because you know we're talking about a presentation on the Baseline data from a study that has not been peer- reviewed hasn't been released the Baseline data was presented by one of the researchers Dr budoff Who is a preventative cardiologist and just looking at this study we can see that we've got people who are average age of 55 and average time of Keto dieting at 4.7 years they got 80 people that are keto dieters and then they matched them to 80 people in the Miami Heart study you know sort of a loose match but they tried to do the best they could and the results that have everybody jumping out their seat is that these keto dieters with the higher LDL don't have a statistically significant higher amount of plaque in their arteries compared to the control and there was no difference between these two groups as a matter of fact the area into the curve was identical okay now this is where it's time to unleash some criticism which is probably going to make some people kind of annoyed but the truth is that the keto community in general is just putting this out completely in a positive light from what I've seen so it's my job as somebody who's not invested in that diet tribe to say here is what's wrong with it first of all there's several problems with the way they matched these groups first of all they didn't match things like physical activity or BMI the BMI is to statistically significant so that the uh to be sure and let me actually put that back up real quick I think it's absolutely valid to bring up the body mass being different the BMI uh RS being a 22.5 Miami Heart being at 25.8 but to be fair this is literally the very lip energy model that Mike was mentioning from earlier we make the case that that lower level of uh mass is part of the Reon especially at aost mass as to why there is this quote unquote hyper response but that said I would say that those in the Miami Heart Group even if they have a BMI of 25.8 that's just barely above the BMI cut off of 25.8 without knowing what their muscle mass and fat mass is I would certainly speculate that they have a greater overall muscle mass uh proportionately compared to the general population given all the other metrics you see in the means such as the triglycerides being 96 the HDL being 63 blood pressure hsrp A1C being at 5.5 they're generally a fairly healthy group so I more say this not because I don't think it's valid to bring it up just that what you may think of when you think of overweight is probably not what these people in the Ami heart column actually are besides that it's actually extraordinarily matched uh save of course the variable of interest being the LDL cholesterol control group averages overweight and the lean keto people don't and of course we're going to talk a lot about the time scale of the study but first let's touch on that physical activity matching completely lacking here and the Miami Heart study did have this exercise data and they could have easily gotten it from the lmhr people so sketchy it's very likely that we oh with hold it hold it I definitely push back on whether or not it would be sketchy the first of all the physical activity being available in the Miami Heart uh data set is interesting it's not what we were collecting a priority in in the uh lean mass metrics were not part of either one it would it would look really it would look more sketchy for us to post Hawk determined that we wanted this additional metric and then wrap it in to be part of the matching criteria like imagine if that's literally what we were telling you now so we were said oh well given the CR the the data that we had on hand we decided we want to we wanted to go get some additional data from our cohort oh and now that we've got it now we're doing the match with Miami heart and these results look however they look you know whether they support especially if they support our position um so again I'm certainly interested in all of these data as they come but to to say that'd be sketchy to not have acquired something when you've already determined what the criteria was a priority I would argue it's definitely the reverse of that we have a healthy user bias here I mean keto and Crossfit two sides of the same coin here and of course being less sedentary and having exercise is going to decrease the amount of plaque that they likely had especially their whole life before that four years multiple studies show that okay I I have to make two more comments I hope I'm not interrupting too much but the first comment I absolutely have to make is that I I can't help but appreciate that there's an an interest in health user bias period because it's definitely one that I've been somewhat critical of of existing nutrition studies overall and usually it's it's regularly pushed back the health user bias is not that significant or rather that it's well controlled for with things like sensitivity analyses sorry to get a bit geeky but for for General users people who are listening to this channel who may not be as much into statistics and by no means am I you know a biostatician myself the concept of healthy user bias is a very valid one to pursue and especially can come up with observational data but that said healthy user bias is usually something for which there's specific instruction that the population of interest is running counter of if anything our population is highly likely to have all kinds of points against it on healthy user bias given their existing diet they're eating a diet high in red meat uh typic Al high in animal protein typically high in saturated fat typically low in fiber all of these different things for which that would be considered independently um a cardiovascular disease risk given existing epidemiological studies that attempt to control for healthy user bias that I myself I don't share that same level of confidence that they succeed at doing so the reason I bring this up the reason I have to pause is I just hope that everybody who's watching Mike's video who's watching my video they're they're very interested in the consistency of the application of these standards so is our study being held to the same standards as the person who's the source of information who you're listening to at any given time or are there different standards based on what the outcomes are again I think that this is always an important thing to bear in mind for science period so just just had to fit that one in there real quick okay sure enough it is going to have to be broken up into multiple parts so this will be the end of part one uh it's a bit late already and I need to head to sleep soon and I have a bunch of meetings in the morning tomorrow but if I can get some time tomorrow I'll continue on and edit together more for a second part hopefully there's only two parts total but uh we'll see we'll have to get into more of what gets reviewed especially with the literature that's coming up but that said um always interested in keeping the dialogue productive and I want to leave this on positive note I again want to appreciate that for whatever push back I've given that I didn't feel was as much steel Manish uh Mike did a fairly decent job of covering our existing published work including the um reference of the lean mass Hypes phenotype and some some you know overview on the lip eny model so thanks again and hope to catch you guys again soon

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: WoKQdgqgC2k (https://youtu.be/WoKQdgqgC2k) ===

[Music] hi guys by now you've probably heard we're holding our own event the collaborative science conference is March 15th and 16th here in Las Vegas at the newly renovated Silverton Lodge and it's going to be amazing it's literally a fundraising event for our coming study so your ticket is tax deductible we already have a slate of aist speakers but this video isn't actually about them it's about you we want to also feature fellow citizen scientists like myself to share their original story research or hypothesis in a 14-minute talk we'll have nearly two dozen slots for citizen science speakers so there's plenty of room it can be in the style of a TED talk or deeply entrenched in data let us know what you have in mind go to the link down below to apply for your speaker slot at our conference or refer this to someone you know who might be interested please submit by January 7th we'll be choosing candidates by the 14th and of course I look forward to seeing all of you here in Las Vegas this March cheers

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: -XQTqGmwLiA (https://youtu.be/-XQTqGmwLiA) ===

hi everyone I have something very special to announce we are holding a fundraising conference here in Las Vegas on March 15th and 16th 2024 this will be the collaborative science conference to benefit the citizen Science Foundation and we're holding it at the gorgeous newly renovated Silverton Lodge just south of the Las Vegas Strip as many of you know we successfully crowdfunded the lean mass hyperresponders study which just now became viral in its first award-winning presentation of its initial data by Dr Matt budoff but now we need to fund its companion study and the good news is you'll get to have a great time doing it your donation is your ticket into the conference from as little as $25 to as much as $1,000 it's up to you but the bottom line we're trying to raise at least $50,000 for the first phase of this companion study and we need your help I'm thankful we already have many great speakers that are contributing their time for our event but we're also doing something new we want to find new citizen scientists and give them the stage for 14 minutes each to share their emerging insights hypotheses and data because that's how my research started and that's the opportunity I want to give to others lastly it's Las Vegas which is its own excuse to come the conference is on a Friday and Saturday day leaving Saturday evening free for those who may want to have a night on the town and for anyone not sleeping in on Sunday we'll likely have a lot of unplanned fun events as well so what are you waiting for put this weekend on your calendar give what you can comfortably give you're supporting citizen science again the citizen Science Foundation is a Bonafide 501c3 public charity so your donation is tax deductible and with that I will see you in Las Vegas March 15th and 16th thank you all again for your support

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ny2JqAgoORo (https://youtu.be/ny2JqAgoORo) ===

okay to move along second presentation is on carbohydrate restriction indued elevations in L cholesterol and atherosclerosis the keto trial will be presented by Professor Matt budoff and his colleagues the Harbor UCLA Medical Center locally here in Torrance California M thank you very much it's certainly a pleasure to be here with everybody um so a very I think a very interesting trial that I I was involved in uh see my co-authors here um so I I have no conflicts of interest with uh with anything related to this and uh the funding was has been provided by a a citizen Science Foundation more of a a crowd funding organization so when we talk about using CTN geography to look at atherosclerosis there's actually quite great data as far as how robust it is and reproducible it is we can look at stenosis severity and find patients non-invasively who have significant stenosis we can look at the number of lesions and see how many different plaques are present we can look at plaque volume which is going to be more per pertinent to what we're talking about tonight we can look at Lumin volume and how much uh how big the the arteries are and of course look for things like high-risk PLS and uh using this this modality to track atherosclerosis is going to be uh is becoming very robust and I don't think there's a large pharmaceutical company today that's not doing a trial using serial CT geography to see if their drug has an effect on atherosclerosis so we undertook this study to look at um this interesting population of patients who go on a carbohydrated restricted ketogenic diet um and and end up with a very high LDL cholesterol and it's not typical there's many patients with obesity or diabetes who have uh uh restrict their carbohydrates they go on a ketogenic diet and their LDL gets better their HDL and triglycerides get better but there's a subgroup who are very lean who have a extreme increase in LDL cholesterol and I'll talk about the the mechanism or the proposed me ISM in a moment but these patients are are so what we is we take these patients who are non uh that non familial hetero uh hypercholesterolemia we we had genetic testing to prove that they had a normal LDL at Baseline they went on a ketogenic diet their LDL went up to over 200 milligrams per desat and we F and we uh enrolled them in this prospective study the prospective study is going to look at a one-year plaque change with ldls above 200 milligrams or above 190 milligrams per deciliter on a ketogenic diet to see if they have more rapid plaque progression what I'm going to show you tonight is the Baseline characteristics their first scan after being on a ketogenic diet for 4.7 Years and we're going to compare it to a populationbased study called the Miami Heart study to look to see if they have increased atheroscler is compared to matched uh uh patients now it should be understood that lean mass hyperresponders are different than FH while they both have very high LDL cholesterol lean mass hyperresponders have a normal cholesterol if they have a normal diet and when they're they're on a low carb diet their LDL goes up dramatically they are otherwise healthy individuals these are lean individuals um in general that we studied and they tend to have this remarkable response of ldls that go up I think worldwide there's somebody with an LDL above 1,000 milligrams per deciliter um uh induced by a ketogenic diet FH on the other hand is a congenital dis disorder they have high LDL through their entire life uh and it's unrelated to their diet so we uh matched 80 of our 100 participants with an LDL above 190 milligrams per deciliter they had to have high HDL and low triglycerides matched one to one for age gender race diabetes hyper lipidemia hypertension and smoking to asymptomatic subjects from the Miami Heart cohort we couldn't match all 100 patients in our study because Miami Heart didn't have the same age range as we did but we matched 80 patients to this Miami Heart cohort across all of these different uh uh values we couldn't match them for for LDL because of course these lean mass hyperresponders had remarkably high LDL these patients had a documented uh ketogenesis they had H ketones measured and they had to have again normal or no no genetic predisposition or no genetic markers of familial hypolipidemia these are the Baseline characteristics and there were differences most notably of of course in LDL cholesterol to 72 average LDL in the keto group Miami Heart Group had an LDL of 123 all the other variables were well matched um uh as best we could match these these two different populations so when we looked at these population they were both 55 years old uh again the uh lean mass hyperresponders had an LDL of 272 millgram per deciliter on an average of 4.7 years duration so it wasn't like this was one week of being having an LDL this high this was an almost a fiveyear duration of having a ketogenic diet and an LDL above 190 milligrams per decil when we compared them to patients with more normal uh ldls LDL mean LDL of 123 there was no difference in coronary plaque burden so we did not see any uh evidence that this LDL 272 induced more atherosclerosis over this 5year period we looked at calcium score we looked at total plaque score on the CT angiogram and neither of them showed any differences whatsoever there was no relationship between LDL cholesterol and elevations in uh uh presence of plaque when we look at the calcium scores between the groups again 80 patients in each cohort there was no difference in calcium scores there's no difference in total stenosis score in other words how many stenotic vessels they had there's no difference in total plaque score and no difference in the number of segments of plaque that were involved uh with their arteries so they had exactly the same black characteristics as a population of patients who did not have an LDL above 190 milligrams per desolator when we look across the different cohorts you can see LDL um up and down and the uh plaque distribution in in green there was no difference between these two groups as a matter of fact the area into the curve was identical so there was absolutely no increase in plaque uh between the lean mass hyperresponders with an LDL cholesterol of 272 milligrams per deciliter and the Miami Heart population which had an LDL cholesterol of 123 milligrams per desolator again matched across all other variables that we could match when we looked at the uh total plaque score how much plaque they had in their coronaries compared to their LDL this is now stratified across LDL and we can see total plaque score no difference across LDL is going up as high as 600 milligrams per deciliter and no relationship in either the keto group on the left or the miam Miami Heart Group on the right so these two groups had very very similar um uh um distributions and there's no significant difference between the two so what's the proposed mechanism well we know that in lean metabolically healthy subjects carbohydrate restriction will lead to a a a glycogen depletion in the liver and we think that that leads to A lipoprotein lipase mediated turnover which increases LDL and you can see at the very bottom here that more LDL mediated vldl turnover leads to a higher uh um uh export of vldl when you have more vldl and lipoprotein lipase you end up with more HDL and more LDL and less triglycerides you you process that vldl you convert it into LD into uh LDL vldl you convert it to LDL cholesterol and you end up with higher levels of both HDL and uh LDL cholesterol so we think that it's all lipoprotein lightbase mediated obviously this needs more evaluation but in a lean person the the body switches its energy model to a more uh uh to uh activate lipoprotein lipase when we looked at um a cohort of patients so you could say well this is not really a fair analysis we're looking at five years of high LDL versus a lifetime of high LDL but I want to show you this population of patients from Denmark in Denmark they studied patients with coronary calcium scores these were 11,800 patients with ldls above 190 very similar to what I just presented and you'll see that more than 50% of these patients with a lifetime LDL above 190 did not have any coronary calcium so not all LDL automatically promotes atherosclerosis and if they have no coronary calcium their Hazard ratio for having a high LDL was one there was no increased risk of having a high LDL in the setting of no atherosclerosis so I don't believe that all atherosclerotic plaque is that all LDL is necessarily pathological so our limitations we only had 4.7 year followup the sample size was only 100 patients we're going to study these patients at one year uh followup for CT angio and then hopefully longer term as well and of course we did not have hard CV outcomes but I'll just conclude by saying that these patients with metabolically healthy Co cohort of lean mass hyperresponders did not have greater atheros scerotic burden than participants matched with more normal LDL values and there was no correlation in this C in study between LDL cholesterol and plaque burden so with that I'll stop and thank you very much great presentation thank you so much Matt so does it Blow Away the LDL hypothesis so no I I think that I think it's very important to recognize and let me just go back here because this is the LDL hypothesis in this population of patients from Denmark with with FH if they had coronary calcium and a high LDL they were 3.5 times more likely to suffer a myoc caral infarction and 2.4 times more likely to die so there's still a very strong relationship between LDL and cardiovascular events but I don't think everybody is susceptible to LDL and this again I think is a unique population where their LDL is up for a different reason than genetically elevated LDL cholesterol so I don't want to no this is fascinating believer in LDL y Madame I missed it did you do a particle CLS and number two uh was it the dense which which fraction went up the dense particle or the fluffy type if you look at the LDL so the LDL particles are larger we're still doing a lot of advanced work with Boston Hart and Ernie schaer's group so we're going to have a lot of different variables coming out of this including particle number particle size large but I believe it's more large fluffy LDL which may not be as pathological okay Zach first and then you go so Matt I wonder if if this is if there's some sort of ascertainment bias involved in your finding a unique cohort of individuals who don't have coronary disease and are able to follow a ketogenic diet etc etc so you've in a certain sense selected individuals will not demonstrate coronary disease and now you're saying aha they don't have coronary disease well it's a great Point Zach and and I I want to be very clear this is not the primary of the trial the primary input of the trial this is just the Baseline characteristics we're going to look at the effect of very high LDL over the course of one year to see if they have progression of atherosclerosis but I agree with you Zach we need to look at this over time to make sure this is not just an ascertainment bias that we're taking healthy people and just saying oh they don't have a lot of plaque at Baseline okay you go next so I just have a quick question as far as um do you have an idea of why this subset of patients get these extremely high ldls on a ketogenic diet I mean this is not normal right I mean people don't don't the small subset of patients we think that when you're lean and you have these are patients who are very lean at Baseline that their lipoprotein lipase is activated they have more vldl excretion from the liver because the liver is glycogen depleted they excrete more LDL f L and that vldl then gets converted more rapidly into LDL small subgroup of patients though are you going to do any kind of genotyping or to so we did genotyping these are patients who have every sing they had to be in the trial negative for every single known genotype for FH or any hypercholesterolemic process so we have no no signals from genotyping in the in the people who are normally put on a ketogenic diet although you said they're lean usually they experience a significant amount of weight loss was there a lot of weight loss in that group and could it be that over 4.7 years if you have a whole lot of weight loss that's cardioprotective uh and there are many mechanisms to could explain maybe why you don't see the sort of change in the arteries when you look at them absolutely so this is the Baseline characteristics so this is our first point in time so we have to look at that but we will look at weight change over the course of the prospective study this is the beginning of the prospective study Dr G hey so um we are seeing these people in clinical practice and it makes us feel very uncomfortable when somebody walks in with this so would you recommend that we're supposed to just ignore the LDL and not treat them if they walk in oh no so I would say get a calcium score if we have great data that a calcium score of zero does not induce long-term risk then a calcium score of zero in this population should reassure you that the Denmark study was FH life lifetime LDL and they had no increased risk of high LDL if their calcium score was Zero I would say get an LD two more questions going as fast as I can ketogenic diet is counterproductive was how much fat do you have in your diet supplying ketones themselves would be more productive than ketogenic diet kenic diet is a Atkins diet oldfashioned diet well so I think we it would be nice to study Ketone replacement versus a ketogenic diet but I think the we just heard about the sglt2 and I think one of the proposed mechanisms of sglt2 is is more ketones as a energy source so I think we need to explore that further okay Yuda and that's it so Matt just understand did I see it correct that that people in the study had a BMI 22 yes lean mass these are lean patients that's very lean patient very lean that's not what we see typically in the clinics right typically they are obese with BMI of 30 and 35 we LDL speed things act the same way in that population yes no and and this is a lean mass hyperr these are lean patients who I think process this diet differently than our type two diabetics or obese patients where they have a different response to LDL as well though thank you Zach

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ejpbghApYGs (https://youtu.be/ejpbghApYGs) ===

hi everyone I have breaking news to share the match analysis of our study against Miami Hart has now been reported by the principal investigator Dr Matt budoff and while these data will no doubt be controversial as relates to LDL cholesterol and heart disease as always I encourage you to continue working with your doctor to give a quick background keto CCTA also known as the lean mass Hypes study is a prospective study focused on 100 borderline lean mass hyperresponders who exhibit the Triad of high LDL cholesterol alongside High HDL cholesterol and low triglycerides when adopting a low carb ketogenic diet those of you following me for a while no I've been quite obsessed with this Triad it often appears in people who are lean and metabolically healthy and with the tremendous Drive of my good friend and collaborator Nick norwitz along with an amazing team of scientists and doctors we've now published multiple peer-reviewed papers on the lean mass hypers sponder phenotype and the lipid energy model which we believe may be able to explain this phenomenon okay but what is the risk well we've needed population data on folks just like these which was why I initiated a crowdfunded study four years ago it makes use of advanced Hard scan data known as CCTA to detect both soft and calcified plaque at very high resolution what I didn't know at the time I was putting this study together was that another CCTA study was underway known as Miami Heart trial which likewise captured CCTA scans on many healthy individuals but of course this population had substantially lower LDL cholesterol than ours and this allowed for a powerful comparison opportunity between these groups given 80 of our 400 participants fell within the Miami Heart age range so without further Ado here is the analysis starting with the methods 80 of our keto participants were matched one to one for age gender race diabetes malius hyper lipidemia hypertension and past smoking to asymptomatic subjects from the Miami Heart cohort this match was impressively close prior primary analysis were levels of total plaque score total stenosis score and segment involvement score and here are the results at Baseline the keto subjects exhibited a mean LDL cholesterol of 272 mg per deciliter HDL cholesterol of 90 and triglycerides of 64 mean age was around 55 years and the time on keto was around 4.7 years respectively when matched to the Miami Heart cohort with an average LDL cholesterol of 123 the keto group exhibited no increased plaque burden at Baseline despite almost 5 years of extreme hypercholesterolemia and there was no significant correlation between LDL cholesterol and CCTA measured total plaque now I'm going to add a couple comments of my own first if you look closely at both graphs for total plaque score you'll notice the area under the curve for the Keta group is lower than that of Miami hard I don't bring this up to claim that they are doing much better just that they clearly aren't trending in the opposite direction as would be expected by the present lipid hypothesis second it's worth reemphasizing neither myself nor anyone wor working with us outside of the lanquist Institute handles the raw data these analyses are handled strictly in-house to the research institute to ensure complete Independence lastly thank you to everyone for helping us get here the irony is not lost on me that this release is 8 years to the day from the initial cholesterol report of my own after going Keto and then becoming an obsessed engineer with a crazy theory on What might explain it my hope is that everyone on all sides will consider these data closely it's not the end of the conversation it's it's just the beginning

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 8KO9029-igQ (https://youtu.be/8KO9029-igQ) ===

hi guys are LDL particles kind of like empty pizza boxes hear me out there's no getting around it the subject of cholesterol and Metabolism in the body can get complicated but in this video I want to illustrate a central problem I've been obsessed with for almost a decade I'm hoping I can make it more accessible to you by using a very basic analogy so let's get started imagine a neighborhood that loves to hold Pizza parties typically when the pizza boxes arrive all the hungry people at the party gobble up the pizza right away what's left over are empty pizza boxes and in this analogy let's say those boxes typically get collected around 3 days after they become empty however some of the houses seem to have a problem they aren't properly recycling their boxes in fact many of their boxes are piling up in the wrong places and sure enough if you simply count all the boxes getting delivered the problem seems obvious these houses are simply getting too many boxes sent to them in the first place more boxes seem to track with more trash piling up where it shouldn't be now let's turn our attention for a moment to something within the human body specifically let's talk about the proteins that carry lipids known as lipoproteins and in particular particular we're interested in lipoproteins that come from the liver as they are the most common they all have one copy of this giant protein known as apob and when they start out they are rich in lipids particularly a fat called triglycerides now triglyceride Rich lipoproteins have a special name known as remnants and under normal conditions these remnants like vldl drop off their triglyceride cargo rapidly to cells and when they do many ultimately convert to the very famous LDL it's important to note that LDL is a triglyceride Poe lipoprotein for this analogy you can think of aob b as the pizza box itself and you can think of triglycerides as the pizza inside so there you go remnants are like pizza boxes without enough of the pizza taken out and LDL is like a nearly empty pizza box ready to recycle but let's again return to the important question of time this is the life cycle of an APO from the liver represented in pixels it will help with visualization again under normal circumstances a vldl will enter the bloodstream packed with triglycerides and within an hour will drop off those triglycerides to Hungry cells and then it will shrink to a smaller IDL an IDL will have an even shorter lifespan of less than 30 minutes and many will convert to LDL but the LDL it will take up the vast majority of the life cycle of an apob IT remains in circulation for 2 to 4 days now let's return to the analogy if vldl are like pizza boxes with pizzas inside what does it mean when those pizzas remain inside for longer let's say it takes twice as long before the pizza is eaten well if the pizzas are getting delivered at the same rate that means we'd see a few more pizza boxes but twice as many pizzas what if it took four times as long before the pizzas are eaten again we'd see a marginal increase in the total boxes but a quadrupling of those boxes with pizza inside but why aren't these pizzas getting eaten as quickly the obvious place to start is that the people aren't interested why because perhaps they're full they don't have the same appetite yet the pizzas keep coming okay now let's switch back to the body let's say the people are like human cells and in this case cells aren't accepting delivery of those triglycerides leaving more triglyceride Rich lipoproteins for longer so what ramifications would this have and what patterns would we expect to see in the situation well for one we'd expect the life cycle of APO lipoproteins to be longer since the turnover is taking longer this means we'd see more total apob in circulation since they take longer to be cleared and yet triglyceride levels are literally multiplying they are increasing several fold okay now it's so important that you really understand what I'm trying to illustrate in this exact moment much of the key Clues are right in front of us and I'd like to take you through them because you see these remnants are considered very atherogenic which is to say they are highly associated with development of plaque in the arteries much more so than LDL particles but how can that be if they are actually much larger and if there are so in circulation the short answer is that present day science may be looking at this backwards cells can become compromised such as developing insulin resistance or simply being bloated with too much fuel thus cells not accepting delivery of triglycerides are what create these lipid profiles lipid profiles like arthrogenic dyslipidemia which I talked about in my last video present science may be overestimate estimating how much apob levels are the cause versus the consequence of this situation now I'll stress again this is just our hypothesis and we need more data to confirm or disconfirm what I'm saying so is there a way we can test it as it happens 6 years ago I identified a phenotype I call lean mass hyperresponders they see this extraordinary rise in their LDL cholesterol and apob levels on a ketogenic diet if you'll allow me to reuse the analogy one more time here's how I describe what's happening with them lean mass hyperresponders are actually turning over a lot of triglycerides off apob lipoproteins in other words their cells are like hungry children at a pizza party the pizza is getting taken very quickly and while there are more pizzas getting delivered which result in more pizza boxes you rarely see the pizza itself before it's snatched up and consumed lean mass hypers sponds have super high abob levels yet a blood test will show very low triglycerides and we propose it's because those triglycerides don't stay in circulation very long as turnover is much higher they are powered less by carbohydrates so their cells are very hungry for fat and this is why they are the perfect population to study they have extremely high LDL cholesterol and apob yet lean mass hyperresponders appear to have a functional lipid metabolism when ruling out any severe genetic abnormalities hopefully this pizza analogy helped to zero in on the nature of the problem I'm describing at the time of this recording we are currently conducting a clinical study of lean mass hyperresponders and borderline lean mass hyperresponders and if you want a deeper read on the lipid energy model itself please visit cholesterol code.com papers I hope you enjoyed this video and thanks for watching by

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: YhL22O5A_jQ (https://youtu.be/YhL22O5A_jQ) ===

hi everyone this is from a recent talk where I simplified the lip energy model and how it can explain high LDL cholesterol for lean mass hyperresponders particularly from a traffic jam analogy it's meant more for a lay audience but for a deeper dive you can check out our lipid energy model paper enjoy What might explain the lean mass Hypes Triad well this is the one section where I'm going to talk a tiny bit of biochemistry but don't worry I'm going to keep it laser focused on those key elements this is of course the boat what's known as a lipoprotein and it's a vehicle for transporting lipids in the blood and in particular we're interested in very low density lipoproteins vldl which precedes LDL and it comes from the liver and it's rich in triglycerides typically triglycerides that were assembled from fat you got from around the body triglycerides are the storage form of fat so you have this boat it's packed full of lipids both triglycerides and cholesterol but also fat soluble vitamins and many other things that your body uses and the lipid energy model It Centers on this High turnover of triglyceride Rich lipoprotein so they're all packed tightly with all of these triglycerides and with this vldl turnover we have three things I want to draw your attention to it's three things among many but these three are the most important first the vldl that's rich in triglycerides it's going to turn into a triglyceride poor LDL why is it doing that why is it going from something large to something small well it's because it's dropping off its cargo it's dropping off those triglycerides into the cell and through some different enzymatic activities this gets accomplished there's something else that's kind of important that probably most of you don't know about which is that there's a fleet of HDL particles nearby that are small and they actually pick up a number of the components that come off of this process so it can be a little bit messy yes there can actually be as the vldl is shrinking and it's dropping off those pieces the pieces that can get picked up from small HDL can ultimately result in large HDL that's kind of how I like to describe it now for play people which is that you could think of apob B lipoproteins like our vldls their job is to start large and get small whereas the job for HDL is to start small and get large but they can only do it through this process and this helps explain lean mass hyperresponders because more secretion and turnover of vldl into LDL could result in higher LDL concentration you're mobilizing more of these triglycerides into the bloodstream but because of this turnover of these APO lipoproteins it's liberating more of these components to be picked up by HDL and that could explain the higher HDL cholesterol and intrinsic to this when you're metabolically healthy the lower triglycerides are going to result from this increased turnover that can explain the lower triglycerides and why this Triad seems to be so ubiquitous across all these different populations all these ages all these ethnicities but why would those who are specifically leaner and more metabolically healthy have the highest likelihood of exhibiting this lean mass hyper responder profile well for that I want to talk to you about large fat cells and traffic GS this is a freeway probably not the freeway that's outside us right now but yes this is one kind of freeway freeway a and now we've got freeway B and I want you to pretend that you're a truck driver and I'm telling you trucks are so dangerous there's been so many studies that show how bad trucks are and then you look at those studies and you find that they're only ever on freeways like freeway B do you think that might be a problem for the science I think so and with that in mind let's talk about the major exit ramp so this study called fat cell size and it gets into the measurement methods path of physiological Origins and relationships between metabolic disregulation never mind the mumbo jumbo it's looking at a dioc sites that's our fat cells and when they get more and more engorged and larger they become dysfunctional and as they become dysfunctional they can also even die and often you'll find more and more macroasia which your immune cells are attending to them and sure enough this has a lot of associations with what they call dis metabolism or lipid dis metabolism which which I would call just dysfunctional lipid metabolism and its association with cardiovascular disease which don't worry we'll unpack that in a moment but note from this paper from figure six as especially visceral fat cells those visceral fat of courses around the midsection especially but it's special ectopic fat that as the population of those adipocytes are larger they tend to associate with greater fasting insulin home ir and fasting glucose that probably doesn't surprise you but likewise they tend to associate with a lower and lower level of HDL cholesterol and higher triglycerides and also increasing LDL cholesterol and that's why it kind of makes sense to me is to why you would see all of these go in a collinear order why it's important to look at them all separately in that fashion if looking at them together as to why they would be together so now I want to go back I want to go back to this aspect of the lipid energy model and I want to backtrack and say what if this cell surface was accepting less and less triglyceride delivery and because of that therefore there's going to be less of the conversion of triglyceride Rich vldl into triglyceride poor LDL and then course spondingly if there's less of that activity of the turnover that means that small HDL particles are going to less and less convert to large HDL particles well I know all the doctors in the room would know why I would Circle this over here right if you've got a higher Association of triglyceride Rich vldl small HDL and thus small and thus less HDL cholesterol that's extremely relevant because we might just be looking at a traffic Jam the simplest terms so here's my picture way of trying to describe it metabolically healthy I'm not surprised if you take a blood test and you see that they've got low triglycerides and low glucose whereas somebody who is metabolically challenged and they've got worse fuel flux that they might actually be seeing a lot more triglycerides and glucose does that mean triglycerides and glucose are in fact the cause well I'm very interested in what's ahead and what's causing that traffic jam but importantly a key difference here is to bear in mind that vld are carrying these triglycerides so they're also seeing the vehicles that are transporting it that's very relevant when you're looking at aob B if apob is part of that larger lineage of both vldl and LDL so now I have to ask an extremely rhetorical question why wouldn't delivery failure by lipoproteins be relevant for the diseases they are associated with I hope that lingers because that's an important point that I would love everybody lay person to lipidologist alike to keep in close consideration arthrogenic dys lipidemia it's been around for decades and yes it's a typical feature of obesity metabolic syndrome insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes aogen D lipidemia is this combination if you have low HDL cholesterol and high triglycerides it's very likely you will have a preponderance of small dense LDL particles

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: JIxmlWpbhpU (https://youtu.be/JIxmlWpbhpU) ===

hi guys obviously a lot has happened in the last few weeks in case you didn't hear we were featured on Joe Rogan thank you Shan Baker he got to talk about my and Nick nitz's Work particularly with lean mass hyperresponders and lipid energy model and he really got to drill into Nick's Oreo versus Statin experiment which is now a clip Nick has pinned to the has pinned to his profile on X and it's been quite viral at the time of this recording it's around 3/4 of a million views and I just I have to also say that Nick has been really striking while the iron is hot he's been making a lot of content in especially the last 48 hours if you haven't had a chance yet visit his YouTube channel his YouTube channel is been quite active and if you get a chance um give him a subscribe also for posterity I'm removing a couple videos on the previous experiment it's for a couple reasons one is because it's on pause right now and I want to wait until there's a little more time and I actually want to return to that experiment so I'll be kind of revisiting what happened before and then what's different now but I need to sort of structure my life a little bit better around it and just have less things on my plate the other reason is because I was informed there's been some technical difficulties with sound especially with it being too low on the microphone settings I had so sorry about that also we'll be launching a charity conference very soon and this has actually been in the hopper for a while but uh we've just had a lot going on my hope is that I'll actually have some details for you in the next few days possibly just after the weekend last and definitely not least don't forget about Matt bu off's coming match analysis it'll be a week from tomorrow that'll be on the 8th and it's going to be it's going to be obviously something I've been waiting a very long time for while while it is preliminary it is the first time we're actually going to have a comparison between two populations who are very metabolically healthy and very much matched across all these different risk factors and demographics but where one has extraordinarily high levels of LDL cholesterol and the other population is much less than those that have it that are very high and I'm just I'm so thankful that we have both our study and Miami Heart to be able to have this analysis completed so I'm going to be there myself physically in LA to see the conference and we have the documentary team there as well that's going to be filming the whole thing and it should be interesting I'm very interested to see what happens naturally after the speech takes place if you weren't able to watch it streaming because of course it is a bit expensive since it's a medical conference we'll have much of the materials uh put online shortly afterwards with regard to the analysis anyway that's all I've got for now I hope you guys all have a wonderful weekend if I don't talk to you sooner and um we'll see you then

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 2IejahhLHlc (https://youtu.be/2IejahhLHlc) ===

is it possible there could be a population of people with extremely high cholesterol levels in the blood and yet have a low risk for heart disease modern medicine would emphatically say no the major carrier of cholesterol in the bloodstream known as APO proteins are considered very dangerous the most common of these is the famous LDL a variety of studies show these particles are associated with the process of plaque building up in the arteries now what if I told you that we have a study underway in a population of people with extraordinarily high levels of LDL cholesterol and therefore high levels of apop yet are otherwise healthy for example they all have low markers for insulin resistance such as H IR but does that really matter in a recent interview on nutrition Made Simple Dr William Cromwell discusses research around this very question first of all is is insulin resistance per se causing risk do we have enough evidence to say that or is it also a correlate of something else and if so do we know what about it what is it about an insulin resistance in in resistant individual that raises risk of heart disease so put another way the the physiology of insulin resistance has lots of layers it's an onion and as you peel those layers it becomes more complicated to try to aort risk to Unique parts of the insulin resistance syndrome this is where it becomes very very difficult for people to have confidence that this percent of the risk comes from this and this percent comes from this and this percent comes from this because we have endothelial dysfunction we have insulin signaling abnormalities we have blood pressure abnormalities we have lipoprotein abnormalities we have glycemic abnormalities we have the ways in which all of this interacts with physiology at the artery wall level so by virtue of being able to impact this in increasingly more complicated ways we begin to lose the appreciation for exactly how much risk comes from exactly which part of this so we learn on the One Hand by division but then we have to reassemble this in a way which tries to answer the question and that means what for where my risk is coming from that reassembly process is very very difficult Dr Cromwell is describing a common problem with trying to figure out the causes of heart disease insulin resistance has a number of recognizable signs and they tend to Cluster together as a metabolic syndrome so what researchers do is try to use statistical techniques to figure out what contribution each of these have to the overall outcome of heart disease based on these models apob B lipoproteins are an independent causal contributor to risk whether one is insulin resistant or not that's where people debate in in hot terms you know what of all of this you I care the most about is it the endothelial dysfunction is it the inflammation is it the particle number is it the hypertension is it the glycemia um yeah all that's part of it but I care more about this than that or this than that and people are looking at small data sets handled in certain ways to inform them what they're really quote unquote worried about um and I get that and and I'm not trying to say one group is right or wrong I'm not trying to say that we've cracked the nut and that everybody agrees what I would say is that um it is not true that you have to be insulin resistant for increased numbers of particles to be problematic and I am not saying that if you have increased numbers of particles it doesn't matter whether you're insulin sensitive or resistant the two are going to intersect with each other and amplify each other you do not have to be a person with inflammation in order for apob to matter but if you are a person with high apob in plaque inflammation is going to accelerate issues marketly and so this chicken in the egg phenomenon that we have is is a great conversation to try to understand um but be careful I think people get very invested in you must have inflammation or it doesn't matter not true you must be insulin resistant or it doesn't matter not true I have hypo and it doesn't matter if I have that in the setting of increased inflammation or not or increased insulin resistance or not that's also not true it's going to be Amplified and so uh we do ourselves disservice by taking this very elegant system and trying to simplify it into the It's A or B It's A and B and because it's a and b they're going to interact with each other very commonly and we're going to intercept people who have uh an ad mixture of the elements and they're all going to uh lend themselves to Improvement if we can sustain insulin sensitivity for a long time and if net net by virtue of diet exercise medication if needed we maintain an appropriately low apob for a long time part of the reason this debate has gotten more intense in recent years is due to some who see their cholesterol rise on a ketogenic diet in fact the most extraordinary increases of LDL cholesterol are often observed in those who are the leanest and most metabolically healthy given Dr cromwell's concerns reflect those of the larger medical community it's understandable why many take steps to lower their cholesterol but for those who don't and have otherwise low risk factors we put together a study to observe their plaque development directly with high resolution heart scans known as CT angiography this group of people represent an entirely new scenario they don't have these clusters typical of metabolic syndrome and they don't have genetic dysfunctions in lipid metabolism such as FH indeed ours is the first prospective study on people with extremely high LDL cholesterol but who otherwise have low risk factors for cardiovascular disease but who are these participants and if they demonstrate a different risk than expected What might explain why in the next video I'll be discussing this and usual group of people and our own insights around this new phenomenon

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: UkQiGjW8Yvg (https://youtu.be/UkQiGjW8Yvg) ===

hello everyone I'm excited to be hosting uh Adrian and Nick we're actually doing this from Boston and Adrian's paper just got released where did it get published uh I just published at bmj nutrition paper on well evaluating safety and durability of a new form of accessions ketones so this is work with one of my students Lisa Pimentel and what we need is with 24 disciplined and brave human beings they consumed 10 grams of BHP or a ketogenic supplement you could contact that that it is already bioidentical BHP and this is a an interesting difference because as well most people in this place perhaps already know there are two main ways of getting to ketosis you can build your own Ketone bodies bodies or you consume uh molecule that's a precursor of one of the different bodies most likely BHP now of this group of exogenous ketones there are two main groups salts and Esters and they are even when both of them raise BHP in the blood they have some important differences of course the salt content is one of them but at the same time the kinetics and physiological results of cells and Esters are not the same and for many many years these have been the main forms of exercise mosquitoes um now there is available these liquid strength with free and bioidentical directory PHP because as there seems to be they need to be broken down the Esters lister's name comes from the Ester bond that binds the PHP molecule to something else or the acetro acetate molecule to something out there some acetylene testers salts have bhv or is it acetate bound to a salt or catching well the The Joint of them is the salt and this also comes with some injections because you cannot give 25 grams of salt to someone uh Esters also have some limitations um they tend to be very very expensive and they they just taste good and one of the problems that new forms of Excellence ketones are trying to solve perhaps the most important problem that we can solve is there are certain clinical scenarios where you just can't wait 72 hours for your liver to raise Ketone bodies in your blood most likely for example emergency department scenarios and actually right now we're also doing research on some of these scenarios for example um we annoyed my students with we are evaluating um endogenous ketosis exciting sketosis on an acute metal nerve ischemia model because for example no one scanners there ischemia their meddler ischemia you know no one skills to have to be run over by a car so in these cases you don't want to wait 22 hours to have relevant levels of BHP this is where even when all of us love perhaps a ketogenic diet there are still some clinical scenarios where it would be useful to have high BHP within 15 minutes and this is the problem that accessions ketones are trying to solve and there are some differences to them and now we have these in new form or new option to raise phe with a mix that's what it's about how does it actually taste you for those who haven't tasted ketones they can taste like nail polish and jet fuel yeah they are typically described exactly like that yes the combination of jet fuel and airports yeah how's the the free BHP taste pretty good I mean it's it's Centric and it's less it's more fluid than the Esther's biggest person I'm not sure you remember that that's why I remember this I was traumatized it's a they are a thick liquid yeah and part of the problem is that unless it's diluted in a very large volume it's something that replacing because then you have to drink a very large volume of liquid that doesn't taste good they remain in your mouth for long right so this is a secret flavor that yeah it's like like any secret drink right out there so another question um for those who don't know like the history of inside from his ketones we've had the salt you mentioned the Esters there's been a lot of investment in research and development I think you know what it was 10 million dollars from DARPA for the essay development back in 2003. um so now we're talking about oh we're just putting free vhp into the body that seems pretty intuitive why wasn't that done first I mean the chemical details are beyond my level of expertise what I understand from them is that from a logistics perspective people don't want don't want to frequently they don't want to deal with liquid supplements I mean if you've noticed for example most of us regular powders or tablets and there have only been a handful of supplements in liquid form but they're already really good for me the Ester is already in liquid form and for example other forms butane diet there is some liquids with vitamin 's also a precursor of uh BHB that are available as such however BHB is uh somewhat fragile molecule perhaps and that's what that's what people who have done research on this particular question simply say that it's something that will capture for example other problems that BHP has is that it's highly hygroscopic it absorbs uh in the public America Source water very easily and it has most to do with the stability of the molecule in storage and again this is perhaps bigger my area of expertise but the fact is that they hadn't tried it before and I'm I'm sure there are part of the reason is caused I mean I don't know how constantly it is to directly produce PHP but well I mean it's it's getting there and gusts of course as technology improves come down and for whatever technical or financial reason the fact is that we didn't have supplements with direct battery so this was a feasibility and tolerability study yeah walk us through some of the data sure I mean 24 participants as I said before um we focused on acid base uh markers and electrolyte markers because these kept being the physiological changes that have been observed with other forms of Ketone bodies for example I mean there's these 2017 Brian steps paper produce physiology where she Compares both of them Esters well both available supplements back then Esters and salts and so that for example they have different effects on blood acidity or pH and different effects on electrons so we knew that was uh common feature of exogenous kitchens as a group with some group subgroup specific results and we don't find changes so yeah blood acidity Remains the Same over one month electrolytes Remains the Same and one of the things with the analysis we run and this has been done with other studies evaluate insect intervaliability with other forms of certain institutions is for example because our dose is fixed we're giving everyone the same amount of BHP we have a gradient of wake adjusted doses so everyone is receiving 10 but we have a participant waiting I don't know uh 100 pounds and another one weighing 140 pounds so something you would expect if there are some other symptoms that are related with the dose is those leaner or lighter participants reporting more of those and we didn't find anything I mean most people reported what you would find with any other substance some I mean infrequent mild headache to 3.5 mile GI discomfort it's not possible to convert if these frequent headaches or mild discomforts are different which for example GI discomfort is also very common this is another Vienna stocks paper comparing MCTS care nesters and I think also Ketone salts I mean right there but and all of them cause my LGI smartphone so this does as well it's not possible to say if it's more less or comparable to the other groups because we're not forwarded to run that analysis but all adverse symptoms were mild and they had no correlation with the adjusted weight those participants were having so yeah the participants were low carb naive presumably yeah they were low carbon naive and pretty healthy they were pretty healthy and actually most of them are healthcare workers which was for the for the uninitiated low carb naive being not low carb yeah yeah as in it's relevant because they're not already in a state of ketosis there's not already endogenous ketogenesis it's it's kind of also relevant because what then happens if there's an intervention of these you know exogenous ketones and what impact that has absolutely absolutely and at the same time um because they most of them are like healthcare workers that are our colleagues and we they work in the same hospital I work in um we have very good AdWords I mean these These are people who are hail savvy very disciplined and that's that's also reassuring because for example if you if you have a study that is not reporting a significant amount of adverse effects you are not always sure if they are not having adverse effects because they're not taking the medication or the intervention so this is not the case I mean this is highly disciplined community of people right as most health care workers tends to be well it's they they also are reaping the benefits of the research directly because it's effective in their field sure sure of course of course and is the um end gains next steps for this to use it in medical settings which is like to give people a little bit of uh Insight behind how the sausage was made I know that was a lot of the interest behind other exhaustion is ketones but because of restrictions it's easier to build a supplement route Supermarket to like the athletes which is what the Ketone Esther did yeah I mean so something something that's uh definitely needs to be emphasized is that none of these supplements is fasting in a bottle and none of these supplements is work out in a bottle I mean they are they're not even a keto diet in a bottle I mean there are many differences when you are a keto dieting for example you are also experiencing other physiological effects you wouldn't get with supplement your insulin is low your glycogen storages are low in the beginning and then they reestablish and it's not the same scenario so that needs to be emphasized however the applications of excisionous key terms are many I mean because for example again acute or critical pair settings where you don't want to wait um 72 hours or where or other chemical settings where you want to maintain your chances above a certain threshold of dhv so for example and I mean and this is uh still work in progress but some technical applications especially neurology ones seem to suggest that it is important to be above a certain level of PHP to achieve the clinical outcome so so in these cases for example it could be a useful tool to have if for whatever reason you grow your diet you know so again this could be useful for epilepsy this could be useful for our Emergency Settings this could be useful and our next step is trying to study these precisely and critical care patients specifically sepsis create occupations because as also perhaps many of you already know being kitchen bodies more specifically BHP uh is anti-inflammatory or has been shown to have some anti-inflammatory effects uh there is there is uh actually there is this beautiful paper in nature where uh PHP and ketosis were directly linked using human data and animal data with how severe covid was and there are multiple reasons to believe this could be useful Critical Care patients for example tends to be malnourished pretty conquered patients tend to have many of the problems we know ketosis could be useful for so now that we know it's safe for healthy individuals we want to do the same for critical under patients let me ask a kind of provocative question do you think if this was available and economically feasible back in 2020 at the beginning of the pandemic and every hospital had it I was able to administer it to patients with cytokine storm mortality rates would have gone down well I mean yeah it's a bloated question um I'm poking you a little bit no no no no that's that's entirely fine I think that well of course the youngest answer is I don't know um but at the same time it's very very unlikely that for the critical care patients we were seeing during the complete pandemic it would have made things worse and it is likely it could have made you know things better so so with all the usual caveats again for example I mean to be perfectly blunt about it during the pandemic we didn't have many Critical Care patients that didn't leave with diabetes or obesity or hypertension so kobit was especially harmful for those with a diseased metabolism and something that before vaccines were around or even after vaccines were around something I would like I liked to emphasize was if you really wanted to reduce your chances of having severe Kobe and needing uh ventilator well you might as well take care of your metabolism because it's perhaps even more effective than whatever drug or supplement but we can we can provide you when you are a cryptocur patient if you have a healthy metabolism all the data we have points out it's very unlikely you will suffer from cervical weight so it's hard to say to what extent it would have been useful to have around um because there are multiple things uh influencing what we saw on the pandemic for example hospitals hospital hospital spraying not so long ago we wrote a paper evaluating hospitals training the effect of hospital strain and mortality during the pandemic in Mexico and if you asked me what I would prefer in 2020 if more attention ski channels or you know available in children's kitchens or more critical care bands I would opt for the bands every single time and it's hard to tell how impactful that would be there's no question though your your paper is kind of opening up this question this this topic I guess you could say because already in my mind I'm thinking about how fascinating it would be to have an experiment of course with with people signing on to participate on an intervention where the existing IVs that are of course providing substrates in the form of carbohydrates I mean intravenous acceptance doesn't require a lot of adherence because you're hooked up to it right but that you actually had a random an RCT of folks that were getting a ketone bodies instead particularly if they may have existing underlying metabolic diseases related to carbohydrate intake right this I mean this may be something we're testing in the future I certainly have my speculation on what might be more likely beneficial and depending on circumstances but again it's because we're identifying folks that already have an existing disease State associated with this it's not like we're just saying ketones are for that matter the keto diet is uh Panacea absolutely but is it possible that a means by which you reduce the carbohydrate intake in a hospital setting where that's assumed to be the only place that's right absolutely I mean that's um perhaps I am just having more workload to my you know a list of things I need to do but another analysis we have been working on that hopefully we'll see like soon is what happened during the Kobe pandemic with uh glucose metrics in patients receiving I mean algebra decimal parenthesis there during the Kobe pandemic we have access to cgms to lots of them and we have this protocol where every patient received the CGM when they were hospitalized and therefore we have groups of patients we have different groups patients with diabetes before covid that received CGM and of course because we started this before the recovery trial was published there are some patients who received steroids and some patients who didn't steroids of course also raise your blood glucose so basically in a nutshell what we're trying to do is to see okay the critical code with patients Critical Care public patient has many things that will raise their glucose what matters most inflammation from government steroids or the food we're giving them because we have we got access to the dietary records of exactly how how much carbs they were having when they were in the hospital so we want to even if it's not the food we're giving them let's say let's say the amount of carbs that we're eating during the pandemic explains I don't know 25 of their glucose of their high glucose that's so huge I mean you could that that's still that's still you know huge because that's something we can control right now and most hospitals feed lots of refined carbohydrates for patients and we want to make you know like the extreme example of yeah these these patients will have very high glucose levels because they have multiple things raising glucose and and even in this setting we could imagine you can just get rid of you know 25 of hyperglycemia because by feeding them differently I mean being inflamed getting steroids and needing to them Bentley carbs for meal when you're immobilized in bed excellent recipe for Success you know I've seen all the time it's appalling you get the receipts they come with the food and you look at it as like 258 grams this person's 100 pounds and they're sitting in bed why it's it's it's it's it's a tourism but I mean perhaps precisely if you have someone who has multiple factors raising your glutagos you should feed them less carbohydrates I think that's that's part of the point we try to make with that hopefully will be published soon and to go back to your previous point one of my papers during my PhD evaluated the effects on glucose control of kitchen investors because of course by then it was known that the keto diet can reverse diabetes or put diabetes into remission for some patients so a very relevant question was well can experience Keepers do the same I mean wouldn't it be fantastic to put your diabetes into remission with supplements and there were some points to think that was not totally unreasonable because Ketone bodies themselves lowered the glucose right so you know glucose so we evaluated that and do Ketone supplements improve glucose control in people with diabetes yes in a comparable way to a ketogenic diet not at all I mean there's no point of comparison the keto diet works so much better but not because exogenous ketones are not especially useful for type 2 diabetes means they want to be especially useful for other clinical scenarios and not because you can produce your own kitchen bodies means it's useless to have you know stories so I'm immediately available Ketone bodies and in the end different ketogenic interventions are just like different tools and past clinicians we just want to learn how to use better those tools so it's that's it it's worth emphasizing to add on to that point I definitely know and have met a number of uh epileptics who are absolutely as low carb as you can get and are still taking exogenous ketones because of those hormonal signaling effects which they will account for will say all right there's in fact it's funny it's funny that you brought this up because at one of the conferences I met an epileptic who she was explaining she is afraid of going to hospitals she's experienced this before where they put her on an IV even when she's trying to say she can even be capable of fasting like she'll tell them this she'll be like I could have I can fast instead and would prefer it unless you really need it for emergency sake and then even so please don't give me uh too much for the IV because it literally can put her in a seizure and kill her of course yeah and so yes this is this as a therapeutic option I mean even just if she could pre-consent to something like this she would take it in a heartbeat right now so for the first four years every time I got into Hospital the first thing I say is don't give me like D5W or any dextrose like IV because the first time I went to the ER in Oxford well Adrian was taken care of it um uh that's one of that but that's not the story yeah my glucose was at 16s like he needs glucose water stat and I'm like nah I'm okay I'm not in gka but to see a young man with a glucose of 16 his ketones are up with like he's going into dka getting sugar right now what do I do something I like to ask residents to calculate to you know to make them see exactly what what we're doing use standard deck screws IV has as much sugar as a Coca-Cola so I mean are you trying to replace Coca-Cola or just are you just interested in the water content I mean perhaps perhaps you could be using something else and I mean it's true that some medications need to be administered with Solutions with these characteristics I mean that's that's true but not the majority of them so we definitely could improve so many things by just you know taking a moment to think how exactly are we feeding patients and why and I mean perhaps you have one more point and why I think this paper is cool or useful or relevant exception institutions are at the same time a research too because there are many things or many physiological or clinical effects of ketosis we don't know to what extent they are directly attributable to Ketone bodies themselves because as I said before when you are on a ketogenic diet academic diet it's not only raising BHB in your bloodstream it's also changing your glycogen content distribution it's also lowering your insulin it's also having other physiological attacks so the fact that now we can just tweak the Ketone body part teaches us biology about which of these effects are directly attributable to BHP and which effects are attributable to some of the other things that change when you are an architect so at the same time they are useful research tools because they allow us to ask more specific questions you can't you can't dissect these answers in a ketogenic diet study because you cannot get just oh you're going to go to the ketogenic diet but I don't want your insulin to go up you just can't do that so now you can so yeah I mean like I I see really three big points of relevance you can add on but like the first one we talked about is the clinical relevance already with an example I'll give just to kind of highlight what we've already talked about is yeah kids with epilepsy like to get to the level of ketosis that is beneficial for some of them you need to be in the three or four to one ketogenic diet which is by percentage 87 fat by calories or 90 fat for affordable like if you actually try to formulate a diet that is 90 fat the amount of pro the carbohydrates go to the mail we used to do a lot of protein restriction it actually becomes very difficult you really need to limit your protein so if you can instead do have a two to one or even a one to one and not worry about oh I can actually have like a few eggs rather than having like an egg and a half with a bunch of like oil on it and then just have a little like exogenous ketones the clinical benefit to that is obvious and then from a research aspect as you just highlighted like isolating the effects of ketones separate from the diet is incredibly important for advancing research and then I think probably the biggest thing of all is just like the tool this gives for access to people including like patient compliance but also just positions you might be more interested in the supplemental approach or might be more accessible to them than trying to get patients to adhere to a diet it's so easy if you have a bhpib and the amount of research that can be done is just infinitely like more economical um the barriers just are drawing yeah which is what makes this I think pretty cool uh well we should probably wrap up but um tell us again where it was published uh bmj nutrition July the 6th and what's the title uh assessing or evaluating the safety channel tolerability of bioidentical oral BHB you would have to add the I don't know because yeah it's it's uh it's easy to find with those words all right well congratulations on the new paper thank you and we'll have a link if you're watching this on YouTube we'll have a link it's open access so yeah yeah no no Big World We Love Open Access so thank you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 2RvGdobyUfk (https://youtu.be/2RvGdobyUfk) ===

hello everyone uh welcome back to the channel I'm joined by Michael dubrowski and this is for scifox I'm excited to be chatting about this with you this is we started talking what in November December of last year is that right yeah something like that and your company offers this kit that we're going to be chatting about for blood work and what excited me was just that it has a lot of the markers that I'm already angling for in the first place in fact it's actually what originated our company with owner labs but you're able to get this blood work at home right so I worked out with you um getting these tests myself and spoiler alert for people don't want to stay to the end of the video we're actually going to feature it as a beta in the on your lap store so we'll try to post a link Down Below on where people can go for that beta page if they want to try it out but I I'm right now going to literally go through the results that I got in doing it and then comparing it to LabCorp blood work that I had taken at the same time so let's actually go real quick to the shared screen on my PowerPoint and full disclosure uh I had already revealed these results to Michael from earlier we actually recorded video but there were some technical issues with it so this is a little bit of a re-record but that said for those who aren't familiar this is the kit I took some pictures that's the one on the left and what's great is when you open it and you're going through the instructions you have here a QR code that basically allows us to link this kit with the account that they either set up then if they don't have one or to an account they already have that exists is that right yeah so until you scan that QR code the kit is generic you can actually gift it and things like that but once you've scanned that QR code you have to link it to a registration page and then it becomes under a name so whoever scans it and takes the test that has to be the same person gotcha so even if I ordered this like let's say you know for my dad or somebody like that I can literally send them the kids even if I'm the one who ordered it and then so long as he uses this QR code to link it to his account then he's fine exactly it's completely flexible great there's I don't actually have everything here but the um there's Band-Aids you have Lancers which I don't have shown uh but what we're doing is we're going to be getting blood from my finger and putting it into this card that you have that's uh fascinating because it actually separates the plasma much like we would see in you know a LabCorp office that has a centrifuge except it's without the actual mechanistic centrifice centrifugation to accomplish that is that right yeah so this is one of the pillars of like what makes the test work is that this card filters uh as the blood runs across the card it filters out the plasma so we're able to do all the typical protein or hormone tests out of plasma and then the hpa1c which is hemoglobin based out of the red blood cells just it was really interesting and I don't want to sugarcoat it for people who haven't done this yet when I was doing it I did note that you have to get a decent amount of blood out of your fingers so um don't I want to manage expectations that it's not like say a glucometer where you're just getting like one little bulb we actually need to Lance enough to where I can actually drip it off of my fingers up to the point where it fills the square in its entirety and then you actually see it going and spreading out from underneath out and that's where it's doing the separation as you described okay so I end up getting this at the same time I'm getting the LabCorp blood work and here are the results first of all the lipids this is from the same test by the way it's a composite of a whole bunch of different markers but the lipids I mean I was just genuinely incredibly impressed total cholesterol it was about a seven percent difference 328 versus 353 LDL cholesterol you had it 248 LabCorp had it 274 HDL 67 versus 67 just literally no difference triglycerides were even very close even for as noisy as that can be but of special interest to myself and I know a lot of people are watching this are the APO lipoproteins apoa1 which is of course part of HDL in April B apob is part of this same kit which is great I I'm curious how did you guys come to the conclusion to include both of these I'm I'm used to it just being us Geeks who care about this the most yeah I did a lot so I mean we talked to a lot of doctors but I did a lot of research for myself just on rather than typically what people do is they go to kind of the medical community and to say what are you measuring now and let's measure that uh but I actually thought that we had an opportunity here to try to reach into the future a little bit and just measure many things uh and look at what's like what would be the most value to the end user not just his doctors actually often don't want to measure things because they don't want to deal with the interpretation um but since this is kind of putting it into the hands of the end user we try to put in as many useful markers as possible and you can ignore them if you don't know you know if you don't want to deal with it that's kind of our approach um and that's how we ended up with APO A1A B because the studies are really clear that those are more accurate in many cases than LDL HDL now to be sure again because it's a home test my expectations were pretty I want to say low but let's just say liberal on accuracy I'm I'm looking for anything within a 15 to 20 margin of error and don't get me wrong we're going to be getting into some tests that exceed that but the the fact that the lipids and especially apoa1 and apob were this close was especially relevant to me so I I definitely appreciate that so far and we're not even through all the the tests yet now we're going to go on to inflammation of course everyone knows I really love High sensitivity CRP scifox reported it as a one and LabCorp is a 0.99 for just a one percent difference this is really impressive to me homocysteine had a bit more of a margin and ferritin actually had a fairly sizable margin at 39 so you were reporting 234.3 versus 387. and did you have any comments on that as far as ferritin in particular does that seem to be a little bit more common so I've thought about it a little bit the only thing I can think of is that uh but it's so well we can go into this when we discuss vitamin D like where all the lab errors come from but with ferdin um it could be sometimes some markers even matter like which arm you take it out of but I don't know 39 is a pretty big difference so it's probably not all due to that you also of course lost some blood some ferritin when you uh took your LabCorp test um took the test kit after the LabCorp test right correct that's actually a very interesting point I had I thought about it I would have tried to use fingers on the arm opposite what I got I mean I don't know if it would have had that big of a difference but it might have been an interesting thing to treat I'm not sure I'm not sure but but for certain things doctors will actually pull if it's like super critical they'll do both arms in the hospital because sometimes the arms don't agree uh but but this is a pretty this is a pretty big difference we can go into once we hit vitamin D which has like the the really big difference we can go into all the possible causes but I do have a question for you actually have you considered do you think your fairness too high or do you think this is good like what's your opinion actually that's a bit of a longer topic ferritin is actually something I attract with myself for a long time for even before keto I had actually had it in the 500s which concerned my doctor and after going keto it was in the 500s for a while and then even when up to the 700s for a period of time and then I don't know if this is related but after having more liberal use of salt I actually saw it climb down much more the the catch is that of course they do a lot of these experiments I get a lot of blood taken out to accomplish these experiments I never know how much that in itself has an impact I don't want to get too Lost In The Weeds on that one but the uh but it is it is one of Interest let's let's go ahead and then jump into the hormones we have morning cortisol that did show a bit of difference but to be fair I'm not too surprised on the hormones having a little bit more of a margin of difference in fact I thought all of them would have a bit more of a margin of difference just because they are frankly they're they're smaller and I and correct me if I'm wrong even between Labs of things that tend to have greater variation hormones because of the smaller quantity parts per million uh tend to just have that higher level of standard deviation is that is that right yeah definitely that and also just how long has the test been around so do how often do doctors order it the tests that are ordered really frequently tend to harmonize very well across many Labs but tests like testosterone they're not being ordered nearly as much as let's say CRP uh so you're not going to get the same agreement between Labs because of just the way that the lab system works like how it's all regulated it doesn't Force harmonization across instruments as much as you would like one thing I wanted to point out is that actually cortisol and testosterone in the morning I mean they have this diurnal curve so it could also be even that like half hour or whatever between the tests could could have some effect and you see them moving together so the cortisol is lower on the and so is the testosterone that's true yeah I know I think you may be right about that not only that not yeah not only that um I do want to point out the reason I highlighted this is because I converted your units so that they would match up with Lab Corps they were they're actually different between deciliter and milliliter uh I didn't get thyroid stimulating hormone uh which I wish I had to to do the comparison uh but I'm not too surprised by the result and then lastly let's get to metabolic Fitness you have A1C in here which is great and it was nearly dead on insulin uh which I I think I already talked to you about this before if I were held to three different tests that I could order it would be insulin CRP and lipids so the accuracy on on insulin being this close was something I found very heartening and I really appreciate um but of course the the one we knew we were going to be talking about was vitamin D and actually what's funny about that is you had kind of warned me in advance in fact I think you literally said that we often that you often see that it's typically twice with the Lab Corp lab reports but you you are pretty sure you understand why that's probably the case right with vitamin D in particular yeah I mean our our guesses is something we're still investigating but our guess is that it's just because of the instrumentation that's being used and the way that instrumentation is actually like uh calibrated they don't have to it's not all calibrated across the whole industry the same way and that's just historically how blood testing works like they just compare themselves to the previous version of their own instrument um but the reason we keep vitamin D in is that uh the values are consistent with themselves so basically if you continue taking this at-home test and we've done a lot of testing on this now like thousands and thousands of tests it does respond to changes so for example if you spend more time in the Sun or you've supplement vitamin D you'll see this number go up uh and so we try to basically um you know we leave it in because it's valuable like if it's very low or very high and you want to change that you can actually change your lifestyle and you'll see that you'll see the changes in the test yeah so they're in in short there may be an internal validity where we can actually see this going up by the same magnitude as this going up and vice versa and or for example if you see and we do see this if you do see a correlation in your vitamin D and let's say your CRP that correlation is real for sure so it doesn't really matter if you if you you know your vet you're you've got your vitamin D at the middle of the range and your CRP dropped uh that's those are real valid statistics so that's why we keep it in but we're trying to figure out how to harmonize it with LabCorp in quest so that's uh hopefully that's coming but not at this point we do get this kind of result once in a while it's also not always so right right yeah well and as everybody follows my work knows I I like to be as transparent as possible on particularly when I'm doing these experiments and the data coming back and so I wanted to share this with everybody who's watching this now especially if we're going to try to help um move your kits through on your labs for those people would like to have it to just be aware of you know my own validation test that the the value that I think can't be understated is even if somebody were to say hey actually I do think it's you know I would have a problem with one of these tests having you know being off by this amount such that I want to ignore it that's that's perfectly valid um I probably would go quite a stretch just to get the lipids alone like it's great to have the additional CRP and Insulin on board and for the accuracy that they have given it's a home test that's what I know is going to kind of change the game for a number of people including myself for example I want to do craft uh testing um or craft ogt oral glucose tolerance test but it's a real pain in the butt to actually be at LabCorp and have the phlebotomist actually pull up blood each time with this I could I could do an ogtt craft test with insulin at home along with the glucometer and actually you know get the sort of results that I would like to at least get at that that threshold so in that part I'm pretty excited about this and you know as long as everyone knows that this is a beta on the up front I I think this is pretty exciting I think that there's a lot of possibilities here yeah awesome uh I'm really glad you did a very controlled experiment so the very we we have people sometimes doing this like a blood draw and a card but you you actually did it with a very close time interval right which is which is great so that's always uh we don't have that many like really careful experiments that people have run outside of the company of course we've done it a lot yeah for what it's worth that is one benefit of working with me and that I'll have some upcoming experiments where I'll likely do some more synchronizing and then I can I can continue to report to you and everyone else uh what these differences are between um I will also mention one other thing which is I'm excited because I think that this will as I understand the only state you're unable to fulfill in is New York but because of LabCorp Services um there are there are three states that we've been prohibited from servicing not just New York but also uh Rhode Island and New Jersey and uh you'll be able to process kits at Rhode Island New Jersey is that correct yeah exactly yeah so hopefully we'll be able to expand on that there soon and don't don't quote me on it yet but we may also be servicing another country with your kids soon depending on how the beta goes I'm just I'm just I'm excited because again this is this is one more way people can get blood work uh particularly in you know from from their home which I know a lot of people are going to be very interested in doing yeah uh yeah I think you know there's a great overlap between the people who we've up to this point served and you know kind of the the people using own your lab so I think they're gonna really appreciate like the convenience of not not having to go in for a blood draw every time and so on um to thank you so much for joining us and I look forward to seeing what kind of results we can turn around to help you out as well awesome yeah thanks Dave

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: H_7JavdDSmE (https://youtu.be/H_7JavdDSmE) ===

hi guys a new editorial has been published in the journal of clinical lipidology which discusses the phenomenon of high cholesterol on a low-carb diet it is anchored by co-senior authors Matt budoff and Ron Krauss as well as a Powerhouse of MD and PhD co-authors the paper explores the emergence of the lean mass hypersponder phenotype it's active discussion on social media and recent published papers examining this profile the editorial calls on both a patient-centered clinical approach and advancement of further research and support it concludes the authors of the present letter Advocate that all individuals whose LDL cholesterol levels substantially increase on ketogenic diets should consider implementing lifestyle change and or pharmacologic therapy for lowering LDL cholesterol and apob in those circumstances where there are competing medical conditions weighing of factors should be an individual matter and determined by patient physician collaboration further research is warranted to understand the ascvd risk in this population as well as to understand the mechanistic determinants of this phenotype on a personal note well I'm not a co-author and generally avoid advocating a particular course of action for individuals with this being no exception I'm very much in favor of bringing greater awareness to this editorial it seeks to strike a strategic balance between conventional lipid management and emerging considerations of metabolic health for those adopting a low-carb lifestyle in fact I'm proud to have contributed financially to the Publishers open source fee alongside nearly 50 members of the lean mass hypersponder Facebook group that was accomplished with support through the citizen Science Foundation as such you can click the link below to read it in full lastly as you may already know we have a prospective lean mass hyper responders study ongoing at the Lundquist Institute which we hope will provide data for risk with this phenotype before now efforts to study normal metabolically healthy individuals with high LDL cholesterol have been extremely Limited lean mass hypersponders provide a truly unique opportunity to capture these specific metrics at a population level we're certainly thankful for the explicit call to action in this editorial for further research and we'll continue to do our part to meet the school

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: pl7t5-tWMG0 (https://youtu.be/pl7t5-tWMG0) ===

dr budoff how are you good good to be back with you last time we talked um we were discussing a study yet to happen now it's happening right yeah we are more than halfway enrolled moving along very well so i think you'll agree with me on some caveats while the state is very exciting one it is preliminary and two of course we want everyone to continue working with their doctor absolutely yeah we never want to try to supplant anyone's health care needs i i've answered some questions for people but but definitely they need to maintain their their normal health and their normal relationships with their physician now of course this was pretty exciting for many reasons one the group of people that i was going to bring to you were those who were actually kind of going the opposite way of the guidelines the ketogenic diet is well known for being rich in saturated fat commonly lots of high animal protein and red meat and often very low fiber so before we go into the data if i told you that these were the folks we'd be looking at on top of having ldl cholesterol and the very top percent of the us population would you guess they'd probably be high risk yeah i would think for all of those reasons you stated that they would be increased cardiac risk so let's go ahead and talk about the top line aggregates because it's pretty interesting 64 participants average age is 53 years two-thirds of which are 50 and older 66 male so that's another check box in the risk side of the equation mean ldl cholesterol before the diet was 135 which is just a little above the mean of the average for the population but the mean average now in this group is 233 which isn't just in the top one percent i checked and per in hands it's in the top 10 percent of the top 1 percent so the very highest of ldl and this is probably one of the most fascinating bits is that even though eligibility was supposed to be two years or longer our average for this group is around four years so that's that's quite a cohort that we have here in spite of this and this is probably the most relevant two-thirds of this cohort have calcification of zero and no total plaque score what does that mean well so i despite four years of on average of ldls that are in as you said in the top point one percent uh in the u.s they have not yet developed any atherosclerosis in their coronary arteries as best as we can detect and there's nothing right now more sensitive non-invasively than a than a coronary calcium scan plus a ct angiogram combination which is what we're using in this study now i'm very interested with this total plaque score of the remaining third that did have some detectable levels of plaque they added a total plaque score between one and eight where does that land in the overall risk level yeah and we'll we'll formally quantify that data more this is a semi-quantifiable a number right now just to give us some idea early on for safety reasons as well as for for early um you know population based reasons to look at the data but but we look at the plaque as mild moderate or severe we look at how many segments are involved so given that we're using a 15 segment model and you can have a score of three for severe that can go up to 45. so the maximum score you can get on this total plaque score is 45. wow and the highest we've seen so far is eight so that's definitely low overall so even among those those participants so far that have had some plaque it's been quite modest or mild it's honestly i mean even for as much as we tried to explore scenarios on each end of the perspective this is like actually turned out am i wrong to say this has been almost a very surprisingly low level of risk given what we expected at baseline yeah i mean we have to remember that some of the caveats on the flip side of that is we did exclude patients who had diabetes and other established risk factors so this is a healthier population but despite that very low very low uh scores and much lower than i anticipated when i saw you know just as as i would have thought when i started the trial of those that have come in have we found any that have monogenetic fh so we found one participant out of we've probably screened about 100 people so far total we found one participant who's had heterozygous fh genetically and had to exclude them based on that on that finding that is impressive though because given the again the mean being at 233 clearly there's something going on with the ketogenic diet and a full disclosure you and i are now of course on a paper with the lipid energy model do you think this may add substance to the to the possibility that this is in fact very metabolically centric yeah i think it adds a lot of a lot of uh strength to that argument i think if you had told me you had a population of patients who had ldls of 233 i'd say 90 at least or heterozygous fh if we just look at the at the statistics based on people whose ldls are at that level clearly we have one percent in this population do you think at this point in time it's too early to discuss possibly expanding on the research maybe looking at other future kinds of studies that we could do maybe larger groups over longer periods of time i think you know it would be a huge one one to really establish this we'd really want a confirmatory study like science you know one study is interesting when study is important but having a confirmatory study is always going to really lend a lot of strength to the argument and it's going to take away any potential for for people to assume that it came out by chance one way or the other which is you know unlikely given the statistics involved but always you know can never be fully excluded would it be fair to say hey we're onto something this is truly novel data perhaps unlike any we've seen uh up to this point yeah and i can't think of any cohort that that's uh uh well characterized like this um you know we have a lot of baseline preliminary data a lot of data on genetics a lot of data on lipid values a lot of historical data on this population and and you know to be able to look at their their plaque burden or lack of plaque burden at this point is is very interesting i think again it i really want to encourage everybody to to stay in the trial and let us fully enroll the study because we're really not powered to look at at the final answer here until we get our our full cohort enrolled so uh hopefully we can we can finish the trial and then start really getting out some robust information to to the world on what this looks like and and then what happens over the course of of another year in a closed environment we'll soon be looking at this data against miami heart you brought that up in the prior interview why this cohort would be of value why miami heart and what what would we be doing in order to best match it yeah so you know miami heart is a population-based study of of ct angiography along with coronary calcium scanning done we we analyzed the data here we were the core lab um they were recruited obviously in miami but we were the core lab for reading so the readings would be done at the same lab by the same people so that's a nice parallel as far as the results go between that group and our group the other thing is that we can exclude patients who have high ldls from either ketogenic diet or fh because we have all of the demographics in the baptist heart miami heart study and finally we can find people who are similar in cardiovascular risk factors age gender ethnicity and really see what is the prevalence of plaque in the population of people who look like this lean mass hyper-responders without the ldl and what the what the ldl adds or doesn't add as far as cardiovascular risk you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: AkzxESsTJyM (https://youtu.be/AkzxESsTJyM) ===

when lean people go on very low carbohydrate diets they may see dramatic increases in their ldl cholesterol to levels of 200 300 or even 500 milligrams per deciliter or more our recent cohort study demonstrated an inverse association between body mass and ldl cholesterol for persons on a low carbohydrate diet in other words the leaner subjects were the higher their ldl cholesterol across a population level notably when these increases in ldl do occur they are often further associated with increases in hdl cholesterol alongside low levels of triglycerides this triad of high ldl and hdl cholesterol with low triglycerides is most pronounced in a phenotype termed lean mass hyperresponders in this hypothesis paper we describe the lipid energy model a model that attempts to explain the mechanisms around why these changes take place particularly with lean mass hypersponders it details the relevance of carbohydrate restriction the dynamics of mobilizing fat and how all these factors can ultimately result in substantial changes to cholesterol levels [Music] in the lipid energy model reduction in dietary carbohydrates and depletion of liver glycogen results in a greater demand for fat as a metabolic fuel this brings about a number of hormonal changes such as reduced insulin and leptin which in turn triggers an increase in lipolysis and release of non-esterified fatty acids into the bloodstream in addition to heightened use of these fatty acids by tissues throughout the body there is a greater rate of uptake by the liver an increase of ketogenesis occurs for production of ketone bodies however under these conditions the model posits there is a likewise greater rate in synthesis of triglycerides from the increased fatty acid pool within liver cells increased rates of triglyceride synthesis in the liver leads to increased rates of hepatic assembly and secretion of triglyceride rich vldl importantly this increased vldl secretion is coupled with increased rates of their turnover by lipoprotein lipase in the periphery this provides both greater repletion of fat stores to compensate for their higher rate of release and more rapid delivery of fatty acids to oxidative tissues such as the heart and skeletal muscles to fuel activity the dynamics of how lipoprotein lipase is regulated particularly in the context of low body fat and changes in dietary composition are detailed in the manuscript but simply stated this model centers on the high turnover of triglyceride rich lipoproteins particularly vldl this high vldl turnover results in three major outcomes more remodeling of vldl to ldl as it donates lipids more fat fuel taken up by peripheral tissues and more surface remnants of vldl including cholesterol taken up by acceptor hdl particles this explains the common profile we observe in lean mass hyperresponders both vldl and ldl are part of the same lineage of apob containing lipoproteins so more secretion and turnover of vldl into ldl could result in higher ldl cholesterol given the turnover also liberates surface components of vldl with cholesterol and these are picked up by hdl particles it's likewise unsurprising to see higher serum hdl cholesterol as well and finally lower triglycerides are the intrinsic result of this turnover that generates the parallel increases in ldl cholesterol and hdl cholesterol to be certain the lipid energy model is not a proven theory nor is it meant to describe all possible influences that can contribute to changes in ldl cholesterol on low carbohydrate diets however it is a useful framework in that it makes direct and testable predictions that can be evaluated by future experiments as detailed in the manuscript and as a final point we welcome collaboration and testing of the model's core components by anyone interested in these ideas we hope further consideration and study on the lipid energy model may not only provide insight into the phenomenon of the lean mass hypersponder phenotype but also into the broader dynamics of human lipid metabolism thank you for watching and please help advance this research by sharing our paper and sharing this video you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: JSEqIsYBZxU (https://youtu.be/JSEqIsYBZxU) ===

in a recent paper we discussed how some individuals see increased cholesterol levels after going on a low carb diet in fact this seems closely related to how lean these individuals are alongside common markers for good metabolic health this brings up some very big questions just how high can cholesterol levels go in this situation is it likely the leanest of these folks are just consuming the most saturated fat and perhaps most importantly would we find development of heart disease in the most extreme cases well i'm happy to say we've just released a new comprehensive case study that may give us some interesting data on all these questions and more before we get started i need to give a couple of important disclaimers one this video does not constitute medical advice and two we remind viewers that existing guidelines and major institutions focused on heart disease strongly advise against high cholesterol levels our case study centers around a 26 year old male who adopted a ketogenic diet to manage severe ulcerative colitis this diet strategy has worked remarkably well for his treatment but it also resulted in a substantial increase in his ldl cholesterol a well-regarded risk factor for heart disease however he likewise saw his hdl cholesterol rise and triglycerides fall and these are two markers associated with a low risk of heart disease we discussed this triad of high ldl high hdl and low triglycerides in our prior paper around this profile we refer to as lean mass hyperresponders and yes our patient certainly fits this profile as well don't worry if you're new to this we'll post a link to that paper down below this brings us to the first key question just how high can these cholesterol levels go in this situation in the case of our patient his ldl levels increased from 95 before the keto diet to as high as 545 milligrams per deciliter at its peak these levels are rarely seen save some extreme examples of the genetic disease familial hypercholesterolemia or fh and unfortunately for those born with fh at these levels there is typically a very rapid development of plaque in the arteries leading to the onset of clinical heart disease in very early childhood notably the patient also had advanced genetic testing such as whole exome sequencing and heart disease risk assessment but no genetic mutations were found that could explain these levels for some further background in our prior paper we showed an adverse association between bmi and ldl cholesterol in the context of a low carb diet this means it predicted leaner people who would appear to be more likely to develop high ldl on a low carb diet we also showed that adding back some carbohydrates could reverse the high ldl this falls in line with our patient in an effort to reduce his ldl he tried on multiple occasions to increase carbohydrate intake and come off his ketogenic diet but every time he did so he had a relapse of his inflammatory bowel disease however as the inflammatory bowel disease remained in remission and he was able to gain weight thus increasing his bmi his ldl cholesterol decreased okay but is it possible this is all just high consumption of saturated fat many speculate that these increased levels of ldl cholesterol with low carb can simply be attributed to greater consumption of saturated fat yet as i've just alluded to this is another area our patient can provide some additional insight his low carb diet is more mediterranean style with emphasis on fatty seafood extra virgin olive oil and low-carb fruits and vegetables and thus his consumption of unsaturated fat typically exceeded 82 percent of total fat intake with saturated fat being less than 18 percent however in his final test of october 2021 he changed his diet to one with a much higher proportion of saturated fat at 45 percent yet this three-fold increase in relative saturated fat intake had little impact on resulting ldl cholesterol in the context of his moderate increase in bmi simply put in this patient bmi dominated oversaturated fat and dietary cholesterol consumption in determining ldl levels lastly will these extreme levels of ldl cholesterol demonstrate rapid progression of arterial plaque throughout the study period the patient and his care team were especially interested in assessing his risk given available data on fh patients with cholesterol levels this high there was understandably a concern that at least some detectable plaque would have developed since he began the diet almost three years ago the patient scheduled the ct angiogram which provides an advanced high resolution scan for the heart and its surrounding arteries cctas can easily pick up plaque volume even at very small sizes in the case of our patient the scan demonstrated no coronary artery disease all cross-sectional views showed no plaque volume of any kind and this was confirmed by the independent analysis of three different cardiac imaging specialists but is this surprising or to be expected after only 2.5 years of extremely high ldl unfortunately a limitation of our current science is there are very little ccta data available for comparison to our patient however our case report does cite a published case series including a baby diagnosed with homozygous fh and an ldl of 548 who started multiple medications at around age 2 to lower these levels with further treatment his doctors were able to get his ldl to 139 but in spite of these interventions the patients for ct angiogram at age 8 identified plaque buildup in multiple arteries this comparison is interesting because again both this homozygous fh patient and our patient had a similar two-year exposure to ldl levels around 500 and our patient had the additional exposure to normal ldl for over two decades of life and yet it was the older lean mass hypersponder patient who exhibited the complete absence of detectable plaque while these data on our patient are comprehensive and provide potential new insights they are limited in scope and time span it's certainly possible this patient is an outlier or that their progression of plaque will take place later or many other such possibilities even if this risk profile in the short term turns out to be in striking contrast to those with fh it only further underscores the need for more research on this phenomenon overall fortunately there is also an upcoming prospective study for a hundred lean mass hyper responders that will likewise employ ct angiography there's a lot more in this case study than we cover here so be sure to read it from the link in the description down below and as always thank you for watching

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: h1f7K1Meq-0 (https://youtu.be/h1f7K1Meq-0) ===

hi guys before getting started i wanted to just give you a quick backstory this interview that you're about to see with bill cromwell who i have tremendous respect for is actually uh about a platform that they put together for which uh myself and siobhan were very excited about we think it's uh many ways representative of where things should be going and while it may seem a little confusing given that they're kind of technically a competitor to own your labs at the end of the day it's it's not about us it's about you and i just have to say that i loved how their model handles the approach on detection not just with blood work but with heart disease in general by checking through a lot of cardiometabolic factors and so forth which again you'll kind of see in the interview but graciously they've also offered to participate in our putting together anonymized data as we do with owner labs so if you go to precisionhealthreports.com o-y-l you'll see that there's this citizen coupon code which will actually give you a discount in getting their package again we make no money from this there's no compensation of any kind outside of they are graciously offering to provide anonymized data to add to our total data pool so i hope you enjoy this video and it's again i think that this is this really is the future so i wish them a lot of luck on making this thing grow and grow rapidly hi everyone welcome back to the channel uh i'm super excited because i'm being joined with uh bill cromwell which i believe in your papers it's listed as william cromwell is that right that's it yeah and uh he's you know i'm gonna i'm gonna tee you up a little bit you actually have been in the field of lipidology and especially of heart disease for quite some time would that be accurate uh 33 years and counting wow so yes you had been reaching out to me for a while wanting me to do the blood test that you were describing as you know i already get a huge amount of blood tests in the first place and uh full disclosure i was like ah okay i mean i will but i already know that it's gonna be going through lab corp so i don't sure i i suppose i'll do it eventually i did it and here's where i'm gonna sound almost like a commercial but i don't mean to be there's no financial relationship or any compensation you're giving me i'm gonna say that what i was pleasantly surprised to see was that no it wasn't as simple as here's your lab now go get your blood work now bring it back no i was happy to see that once i got into your platform you actually go through a whole bunch of the questions i i'm interested in for example you were asking about my waist size you're asking about most recent blood pressure and a lot of other markers related to metabolism and this is something where we definitely have a lot of overlap because i think metabolism is perhaps i mean it's it's like sort of lightly acknowledged and perhaps more so now than ever but even for as much as it's being acknowledged now i think it's way under capitalized on particularly for cardiovascular cardiovascular cardiovascular health would you agree with that oh absolutely um and not to take us off the the track a little bit but let me tell you the thing that has motivated me dave over the past 30 years is how do you do the right thing one person at a time right so our knowledge is ever increasing we have a model of vascular disease diabetes cardio metabolic risk which is ever improving uh like anything else in medicine you know it's it's something that we shouldn't hold too tightly to uh there are things that are important today uh there are things that may be more important tomorrow so how do you let data teach you how do you let science evolve how do you let a better picture come into place so that i can look one person in the eye and say this is the most granular thing i can tell you about the processes that drive your risk of diabetes heart attack and stroke if we can take that view of things if we can be more integrative in our approach then metabolism becomes the key and for some people it's going to be a story where there's not a whole lot to talk about in some people is going to be a story but there's a whole lot to talk about and the guidelines have begun to drift gently in the direction of supporting this conversation and by that i mean we're getting away from using major risk factors and calculators as the end-all be-all we're embracing the idea that there's a lot under the hood as some people would say and these are gently loose loosely called risk enhancing factors um some guidelines uh have different ones than others but as we get into discussing your report and what's going on um i want people just take a sense that our desire is to be very inclusive we we want to take a metabolic focus to diabetes heart attack and stroke we want to benefit from multiple guidelines not just one us and international we want to take advantage of the pathophysiology that we understand of insulin resistance and we want to be able to not have a general conversation about what these numbers mean for people like you we want to have a conversation of let's talk about you what are your detailed medical uh values information uh history risk enhancing factors that just make this the kind of conversation guidelines want us to have a a patient physician informed conversation where you don't have to guess anymore you can have a really good line of sight as to what's going on and then if you choose to make changes how are those changes playing out which again i think is just fantastic certainly while you're talking about it's it's driving that way slowly i want to make a hard turn towards looking much closer to metabolic health and especially the very things you were describing for example how much insulin resistance plays a part in it which i'm sure we're going to be discussing but let's go and get to the meat of it let's pretend for right now that i went through the process i just described i went to your site i filled out that information just like i said it's a form and it's not like one or two lines there's really quite a lot that i had to go through but again they were all questions that are meaningful to me to me and at least at the place where i'm at right now in my research for where i think heart disease especially and really many other potential disease states uh are going to be highly relevant and highly associated so i i love that we we went ahead and prepared a special version of my report which is redacted some parts are redacted but generally speaking we're going to be looking at exactly what any patient that's going through this is going to be looking at right right that's exactly right all right let's go ahead and jump to it do you want to screen share in the report sure thing let me just make a click here and here and so now you see it um so why not just take you you know through this gently page by page where we need to stop and have a sidebar we can does that sound fair that sounds great yeah so uh the cardiometabolic risk report as i indicated is uh not just the old-fashioned what are my risk factors and should i be concerned this report is laid out into sections the first section is a cover letter and this cover letter basically makes the case that we're putting jigsaw puzzle together and this jigsaw puzzle is informed by some common things that people know about major risk factors it's informed by various features of insulin resistance it's informed by a growing number of risk enhancing factors which are additional clinical factors guidelines identify as important in having the informed patient shared decision making conversation and at the end of the day we don't see heart attack stroke and diabetes as siloed separate entities we see them as expressions of one common entity and and that is insulin resistance and metabolic disorder okay so what you're going to see on the next few pages are a series of data which are laid out graphically where you'll have sliders and these sliders are green on the left and red on the right green is low risk or optimal red is higher risk and what you'll see from the very beginning this is our 30 000 foot view it's going to start with insulin resistance under that's going to be metabolic syndrome severity under that is diabetic risk and under that is overall cardiovascular risk so this is designed to give you uh the most high-level view of detailed information and then the details come in pages that follow so in this particular case uh the first thing you see is the lpir score lipoprotein insulin resistance score this is a multi-marker which in multiple different studies has shown some very robust characteristics not only is it an excellent indicator of insulin resistance but more interestingly as a single composite test of insulin resistance it's highly predictive of incident diabetes uh what you'll find is that a low number is insulin sensitive and a high number is insulin resistant and so in this case 20 is about as low as it goes that's highly insulin sensitive which is great the next question is now this is really talking about how your cells are responding to an insulin signal insulin affects liver muscle fat cells as your viewers know and this is basically a representation of the sensitivity of those cells in responding to that insulin signal but at a macro level we know that there are other features of insulin resistance many of these have been clustered into the metabolic syndrome waist circumference blood pressure blood sugar hdl cholesterol triglyceride there are other features including systemic inflammation atherogenic particle number and what i find very interesting is that you can take a step forward from just saying categorically do you seem to have the metabolic syndrome to asking the question what do your actual values mean in terms of your diabetic heart attack or stroke risk due to insulin resistance and that is the metabolic syndrome severity score we can talk about that perhaps as we go along as well low is good high is bad and seven is nice and low so again these two reinforce each other very insulin sensitive without having much to talk about at all in terms of metabolics from severity risk diabetic risk is a little different in this report because it integrates glucose and insulin resistance this is important because at any given glucose level men and women have a wide range of individual conversion to diabetes over eight years we know from mesa and other landmark trials that knowledge of insulin resistance and glucose together helped to better discriminate that and what you can see in this example is an eight year diabetic risk of six percent which is low so so far metabolically uh this uh looks very favorable and the last thing is overall cardiovascular risk uh this is something that a lot of people would have different opinions about because we've had varying starting points for the conversation of cardiovascular risk the pooled cohort equation your viewers are probably familiar with this is the current multivariable risk equation that the american college of cardiology uses to start inferring risk but that's not the whole story you should look beyond that to biomarkers risk enhancing factors and at the end of the day you can give a general representation as low moderate high or very high and for reasons you'll see in a couple of pages currently it's high so this is the 30 000 foot view if you take a little deeper dive metabolic dive that is we again start with insulin resistance we've talked about what that is on this page in the center of the page we give visibility to the detailed information that came from the survey that you were talking about where individuals say what is my actual waist circumference my systolic and diastolic blood pressure my fasting glucose my hdl cholesterol my triglyceride what is my systemic inflammation as gauged by glycae what is my atherogenic particle number apob these are all encapsulations if you will of that broader insulin resistance syndrome now the coloration is green is normal and what you see are the five features that people talk about with metabolic syndrome all are normal all are green and then this little hurricane diagram everything above the line that screen says no evidence of what we would call metabolic syndrome can i pause you for one second a few things that are interesting about this first of all those first five viewers should definitely know that metabolic syndrome those cut points have been around for some time and do show a robust association i do like how your graph to the right of this um actually is color coding the like in in a live output it shows the atherogenic particle number for example is in red that's going to be different from one person to the next somebody else may have green somebody else may have their waist measurement be red i assume if the waist measurements you know out of proportion relative to their hip size things along those lines so that there's already kind of a little bit of a graphical abstraction of where you consider all of these composite endpoints together would that be a fair way of putting it that's right so actually um you don't see it on this one but if the first five features are abnormal they're yellow below that there is a yellow and a red so so there's a green yellow red representation we're pulling that same visual through in many places through the report i think people you know pretty much get that you know green to yellow to red has a continuum associated with it and but even sorry even the criteria i've noticed uh just to the left of my values they appear to be adjusted relative to what my age and probably my sex is right so for example uh way size being 40 i'm gonna guess that that's relative to my height right same thing with with systolic and diastolic pressure i'll bet that those are adjusted relative to what you would expect would be high risk for my specific profile now the way circumference is because the current guidelines talk about two different adjustments gender specific and ethnicity specific so asians have lower thresholds women have lower thresholds so if you are a caucasian or non-asian male it's 40 if you are an asian male is 35. if you are a non-asian or a caucasian female it would be 35 if you're an asian female be 32. and so there is an adjustment that the literature has uh identified as you know it is not the case that many ethnicities have the same magnitude of voice circumference and yet they're insulin resistant so that's one of the things that has been a moving target in the past but at least by the guidelines this is where they've settled in but you but your existing platform is in fact showing the criteria in a dynamic fashion yes that is correct right which is what i was kind of calling out which i think is important because once again if i had just gone and gotten blood work it would have been it would have been broad-based against whatever they determined to be the reference points here so i i love that you actually have not just you know where i stand by your own criteria but also the reference points that you're looking to judge it by yep and that it's individualized so that's it's pretty cool again uh back to viewers i have no stake in what i'm saying but i do want to emphasize why this coming from a system standpoint coming coming uh at metabolic health as being something that should be very individualized i just bill i just love it i love that you're actually taking this approach with your platform well i appreciate that feedback because you know this has been a year in the making um i can't tell you how many years went into this before we actually formalized it but i've tried to emphasize many many different representations of this and like you my bias has been i want to do the best job one person at a time i don't want to make this a broad brush stroke i don't want to make this unadjusted for the things that need to be thought through for an individual patient because at the end of the day what i hope somebody takes away from this is this is me this is me as i am now and because it is a cumulative report it will show response over time that's really key especially when we're emphasizing therapeutic lifestyle as the critical factor which is often overlooked to improve metabolic health medications may be in somebody's future in my world that's a last step not a first step uh when you have optimized everything you can optimize and your body says this is as good as it gets then we have a medication conversation um and i think that's putting things in the right perspective because one thing you have taught me is how radically we can change in response to various things that we do and i would not have appreciated that until i saw some of your numbers i i take that as quite a compliment but basically anything you're going to tell me that i've taught you would already be because you already know so much for viewers who don't know bill and i ended up having lunch the first time we got to meet in person and uh let's both are surprised it went three and a half hours so we had we had some good discussions so anyway uh sorry i didn't need to interrupt you but uh feel free to continue on well i mean the hanging chat here is going to be this high above b and we'll have a conversation about that i'm sure before this is over what to make of that i don't know when i look at this as a single value so this is something i've said in different ways to different people but think of any major risk factor as something that can assert itself as a function of magnitude over time how bad for how long when you look at a single number you have no context for that and that's one of the things i really encourage people to do is when they see an outline value put it in context do you know how long it's been that way is there a way to figure out how long it's been that way and if you're worried about it why would you worry about it because it's been bad for a long time if it hasn't been bad for a long time then it really isn't a conversation point until there is evidence that the end organ is problematic there's blockage in a vessel etc that would be a different starting point for the conversation but if the vessels look good and that number looks bad it's a problem if it stays there for a long time we currently think but you can't just look at a number in isolation and say that for everyone that number is universally bad without context so anyway and then at the very bottom metabolic syndrome severity score this is an interesting exercise there were two researchers one at the university of virginia one at the university of florida who i guess basically were concerned that metabolic syndrome as represented by three or more of five criteria was putting people into a box that was not very well discriminating so if you have three features and i have three features would we have the same risk for diabetes heart attack and stroke not necessarily and why not because the fact that i exceed a threshold does not give me any sort of visibility to the impact of how out of bounds i am so let's say that my triglyceride is 500 versus 151. that's a big difference right and so what this does is in in a gender ethnicity specific multi-marker way validated against the atherosclerosis risk community study jackson heart study other landmark trials comes up with a continuous variable from one to 100 percent which highly discriminates diabetic heart attack and stroke risk that is associated with features of insulin resistance and what's interesting is the metabolic syndrome severity score is more predictive than any of the individual elements that are fed into that multi marker so it is more predictive than the individual elements taken one at a time and so for that reason again i think it's important that people get better visibility to what does my current metabolic milieu tell me about risk i have seen examples of people who are all green and are at fifty percent i've seen examples of people who have three of five features and they're less than fifty percent i've seen people with two features and they're 75 percent so this is a very dynamic situation where you can be really deranged in some areas and okay in others and you're not hitting the categorical threshold that would make people think oh you have metabolic syndrome i want to know how much metabolic risk do you have and that may or may not be well encapsulated by just three or more features so great that's that's the picture uh for metabolic health you can also ask the question well this interrelates with type 2 diabetes on the left in this diagram heart attack and stroke risk on the right so let's look at diabetic risk as i teed up earlier glucose is one way to assess risk of diabetes and the american diabetes association would generally say less than 100 is a normal-ish glucose 100 to 125 is a pre-diabetic glucose and over 125 on a regular basis is a diabetic range elevation well what you and i know is that at any given number there is a range of individual risk over time and that may not be well appreciated by people but uh 93 in certain situations will be much more risky than others at 93 and what makes the difference well how well are your cells reacting to insulin how insulin resistant are you the more insulin resistant you are at any given glucose the higher your risk so this colorful diagram is actually a gender specific diagram it is for a male as shown here for a female these white bars would be actually offset to the right slightly and what it indicates is that at any given glucose on the y-axis you'll see a range in the white bar of 8-year diabetic risk if you're on the left in insulin sensitive you'll be lower risk than if you're to the far right and more insulin resistant so if you just look at this graph on its face it would say that the higher your glucose the higher your risk for diabetes but at any given glucose there can be quite a wide range depending on whether you're insulin sensitive or insulin resistant so putting these together in a gender specific fashion allows us to give a better discrimination that in this case there's about a six percent chance of developing diabetes over eight years that's low this little table at the bottom is not very dynamic in this example because what it does on the top is it says what does your diabetic risk look like at your current insulin resistance score and the row below that what would it look like if you had an optimal insulin resistance score well if you're already optimal all these numbers going to be the same so it doesn't teach you anything but in your mind's eye instead of 20 on the lpir score make it 80. if it were 80 you'd be way over here at 80 you would be much greater risk of diabetes and these numbers would reflect that so this i call the what-if chart again what are we trying to do we're trying to emphasize to people that you have a certain metabolic setup now which is highly modifiable and if you found yourself in an unfavorable place a high ir score or a high eight year diabetic risk what can you do to improve that are you just destined to be diabetic no not at all if you improve your insulin resistance score you will improve your risk of diabetes at the same glucose if you lower your glucose you'll improve your diabetic risk at the same ir score if you improve both your glucose and your ir score you will go smartly down into the green instead of being somewhere potentially in the red so this is a very very dynamic and i can show examples of patients that i've worked with through the years who have understood this and and made this a significant lifestyle adjustment many of whom have gone from 50 or higher diabetic risk to less than 10 in many cases they do their own self-experiment of i wonder what happens if i go back to my old ways and they quickly pop right back up and they say oh i guess that didn't work so it's reinforcing right it tells you what isn't working what is working and maybe what you can get away with right so all of that i think is you know you would know this better than anybody you've got more data for yourself than any one person i know uh you you can really dial in what effect you're looking for good or bad i guess i believe i have something in the neighborhood of over [Music] well i i think at this point had probably 130 lpir scores between all the blood work right since november of 2015. again because of the experiments i get an nmr with every single test that i do um and that comes with the lpir score and the lpir score is almost always showing for me as an under 25 save a few key experiments and one experiment you may not have known about is in 2018 i literally gained about 20 pounds for the purpose of seeing what it would do with my lipids checking insulin levels and then on the way down switching back from a standard american diet to a ketogenic diet in a very controlled fashion i was capturing wide spectrum blood tests on the way down to see what was happening with all of these and the lpir score unsurprisingly uh tended to correlate with what i would consider to be better health markers and in my own personal status i've been i've been especially interested in that composite score for a while and as i'm sure you're well aware we had a very um powerful um i think it was a retrospective study that got released earlier this year i think it was the women's was it the women's health initiative or was it the um it was this it was a study that had a large uh female population for which uh lpir was shown to be something like eight or nine times uh more of a hazard ratio compared to like the second uh risk factor underneath it again don't quote me on this i'd have to get in front of me but it really had a new level of eye-opening data to show the uh strength of that association with llpir in particular right and and that's one of many prospective cohorts that have now the advantage of that is it's 20-year data uh others 10-year data so various degrees of epidemiologic prospective follow-up with incident events either in this case diabetes or heart attack or stroke so um all of that helps inform us and one of the things that you're aware of is that we've spent a lot of time and a lot of energy over the past 20 years specifically asking more probing questions to understand how robust these associations are so a good 20 25 years of my life have been spent um with gem otvos and others seeking to understand and having collaborators have been very helpful in that so to date nearly 700 peer-reviewed papers over 17 18 million samples run we've learned a lot so the one thing we have is a pretty good understanding of the performance of some of these things now the question is how do people get this information and then in a guided fashion make the end the adjustments the lifestyle interventions that are necessary to see the improvement that can be had yeah that's great so when we get to cardiovascular risk this is the integration of what i call the old and the new the old has been some type of risk calculation exercise to get the ball rolling in the day it was framingham that was rental drift score then it was many other ones the one which is currently in vogue is the pooled cohort equation if you can read these words at the top it just reminds people that age gender race total cholesterol hdl cholesterol diabetic status blood pressure smoking medications all feed into a 10 year and a lifetime representation of risk 10 year is as the name implies what's your chance of heart attack and stroke in 10 years now if you are younger 10 years is not the end of your universe you would like to think 25 30 years right so i'm a fan of lifetime risk in younger people because it's a much better conversation i have seen so many times where people have low 10-year risk and something not optimal or high for lifetime risk one of the quips that i stole from sergio fazio who's a lipidologist used to be a vanderbilt and he went to oregon but sergio has a as a way of turning a phrase and he says you're never lower than your highest risk i i kind of like that right so you're never lower than your highest risk if somebody says i've got five things that make me low risk but one thing that's validated makes me high risk i wouldn't consider i'm low risk i may not be high risk but i'm certainly not low risk because there's something else that's pulling me in that direction so this i think should be understood as a generalization based on these variables over a 10 year or lifetime field of view what is interesting to me are what are called risk enhancing factors if you look at the acc guidelines the european society of cardiology guidelines the american diabetes association guidelines national lipid association guidelines variety of guidelines there are many many clinical situations are called out as being important in integrating into an individual's risk and these are very uh interesting some people may not know of it for example for females preeclampsia is a risk enhancing factor premature menopause risk enhancing factor inflammatory diseases rheumatoid arthritis psoriatic arthritis hiv all risk enhancing conditions high particle number risk enhancing condition high lp delay risk enhancing condition there are over 30 of these and all of these are captured in that survey that people take when they are getting the information necessary to generate this report sleep apnea other things right so you want to have a very broad field of view on that and why is that important because it gives better visibility to the dynamics that an individual has in their mix that can contribute to their risk some of which are modifiable some of which are not south asian ancestry can't do much about that but clearly it is a source of risk that isn't captured in many of the risk calculators what you see here is a reflection of the fact that there is no ldl cholesterol greater than 190 april b greater than 160 non-hdl cholesterol greater than 220. um this would be above the 98th percentile that's pretty high and so again going back to what we think is the causal exposure model of atherosclerosis the longer you're exposed to a punitive factor at high concentration the more impact it has and so i tell people it's only scary if you stay there right granted that we're still trying to figure out the magnitude of incident risk that these biomarkers can have in certain situations but with a lot of experiments of nature underneath our belts including fh on the one hand and hypo beta on the other hand um there is a a general trending of risk as a function of how high and how long people maintain atherogenic particle excess so that's that's a good general statement there are a lot of ways that that may or may not be true but that's what we we begin with right so when you put all this together uh you'd say that your lifetime risk represented here at 50 would be high there are other factors which are also add risk so we'll say yep uh overall risk would appear to be high right and to be sure um just to kind of put a few things in perspective because i don't want people to miss it you said that my levels would be above 98 so it should it needs to be emphasized uh as i try to do as often as i can bill while you know that i can be and i use the phrase cautiously optimistic with regard to this context the metabolic fat adaptation the reason i frame it that way is that's a claim of uncertainty even if i have a leaning i really don't know and it's understandable why there would be many people uh particularly professionals at your level who would say you know it's one thing to say hey maybe an ldl of i don't know 180 which might be say above um the 70 or 80 watermark it's just gonna feel very different than what we're looking at on my levels here where i have like an ldl of say 271 with enable b of 183 these are levels you don't typically see outside of populations that already have some kind of genetic disease such as monogenetic fh even at least at heterozygous levels to observe this this is kind of a new phenomenon that certainly i'm very interested in studying a lot of but then i'm going to guess you're having more and more patients that exhibit this again without my my my wanting to acknowledge this without necessarily encouraging it it is something that i could understand why it would be as concerning right right um so just to maybe extend that thought a little bit um i see a lot of people who show up with bad numbers and these are not unusual numbers for people i take care of i'm a lipidologist i'm one of two lipidologists in a million person area i have families of fh that you know are as you expect are all over the board i've got all sorts of poly genetic folks that are all over the board so it is a very very common day in my office to see numbers like this that's only because you know people concentrate in my office with these numbers not because it's common for the general population so when i see this the things i have to have as a conversation is how long has it been this way what do your vessels look like that's where we start the conversation and in some cases people were diagnosed at a very young age and they say now this has been me for a long time got it in other cases i don't know this is the first time i've had a look in some cases they're in an age where picking up atherosclerosis is a little more difficult with existing tools because you know when you're 30 you have only had 30 years of potential exposure that's if you were born that way much less if it happens sometime during your childhood or early adolescence and so it does take cumulative exposure for atherosclerosis to be picked up in one way or another right and so i think people need to be a little cautious about a looking at this as we don't know that it's a problem we know that there are populations characterized in this way genetically for whom it is a problem over time so we can say that we also have to be careful to say anybody at 271 has plaque already we don't know that i i don't know that somebody has plaque at 271 they may in many cases i wouldn't be shocked if they did given the cumulative exposure of a 271 over time right but i do think we need to keep the conversation open enough to say context is meaningful how high for how long and then what do your vessels look like if we can kind of open the conversation to that i think it's it's a more representative conversation of literature it still allows for the very strong association of atherogenic particle number that has been shown in any number of different contexts but at the same time it also opens the door for the fact that this is something that can be improved either by lifestyle or medication and in many cases i have seen people who are as some people describe them lean mass hyper responders can make these numbers much different with adjustments in their lifestyle naturally i'd i'll want to chat with you about that after we get through our report i think we're close to the end at this point right or we aren't there we are because what we're going to do now is just highlight something on the bottom and then unpack a couple of pages so the guidelines as you know have recommendations for what these values should look like if you wanted to lower cardiovascular risk one point of reference is a percent reduction and the other point of reference is an absolute target okay so a percent reduction would be 50 reduction for high risk and very high risk so you just take half of these numbers if they're not on therapy and you see those as one representation of a number to shoot for another representation is called minimal goal and optimal goal and this really reflects the fact that the u.s guidelines and the european guidelines are a little different in how aggressively they target these numbers the u.s guidelines are a bit more conservative the european guidelines are a bit more aggressive and the reason is because most recent outcome data from fourier and pcsk9 trials have allowed us to get new observations of what happens to people who achieve very very low ldl cholesterol over many years and what's interesting to see is that the event reduction the reduction in heart attacks and strokes continues to be linearly related to how low your ldl is all the way down to 10. so is there continued clinical event reduction as you go below 50 yes below 30 yes below 20 yes is it of the same linear relationship yes so one answer is there is not a point at which we don't get additional benefit by achieving and maintaining more aggressive reductions the other hand is are there risks associated with that and what do we see as far as risks in individuals who were 25 and below versus 50 70 and 100 and the answer is no difference between those individuals less than 25 versus those achieving ldl cholesterols 50 70 100. so as these outcome studies have been performed we don't see a signal for risk we do see a signal for benefit and that has caused the guidelines to not have a view that you stop at any particular point the numbers that you see in the green are called thresholds you stay below them but you don't stop when you get to them so if you had reason by virtue of having had a heart attack a stroke or a significant plaque and you say i really need to get this thing down then do i stop at 100 no that's a minimum acceptable value do i stop below 70 no that's a minimum acceptable value depending on which guideline you're following if i could get to 50 would that be good it could be is that likely to give me more risk not based on the guidelines and the outcome data but everybody's an individual this is the informed conversation but at least we have data now in randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trials where 13 000 individuals have the median ldl cholesterol of 26 and they're followed that way for years so now we at least have data to indicate there's a reason from a benefit perspective that you could do well down there and we don't see a safety signal that's different for those people that's part of the conversation so then when we look at that a little bar graph or a qr code to give people some additional information these are cumulative tracking pages and as more data is collected over time the chart at the top fills in and the data points connect going left to right there's a line here for glycae below 400 would be favorable metabolic syndrome severity less than 25 would be favorable maintaining below the red and below the yellow will be favorable people can see how they're doing over time let's assume somebody doesn't start with all green and let's assume somebody starts at a value above what's favorable well through lifestyle intervention you would expect to see these values trending toward improvement over time same thing can be said on the next page which looks at glucose lpir score eight year diabetic risk here's the line for lpir score here's the line for eight year diabetic risk this is where we'd like to be for those people who are above those values changes over time we would hope would connect the dots and show an improvement if not maintenance below these values and then for atherogenic particle number there's a minimum there's an optimum lipid values are at the top particle number is at the bottom here shown as apob and again this allows for cumulative tracking over time one of the things that we have done with this report is we've also added some context around this all right so your atherogenic particle values are high there are links here where you can click on this to get more information and what this is going to tell you is there are secondary etiologies to be aware of liver disease thyroid kidney glucose there are genetic things that you'll need to have a conversation about there's context to put around this again trying to give people some of the conversation that you and i have talked about um and then same thing is true for a particle number in cases where people have not had any sort of non-invasive imaging in many cases there's a prompt that comes up that says non-invasive imaging could be helpful again just to allow people the opportunity to say if you haven't looked at your arteries you might want to because it's an important piece of information to try to put this in context again we're trying to be uh very open about the various things that inform the values and what might be a good conversation you have with your healthcare team that's great as we go down these are the actual responses that people give when they take the survey such as you know any non-invasive imaging zero coronary calcium score 48 etc also things that people may or may not be aware of family history of manifestations of fh are typically not known to people things like thickened achilles tendons and whatnot but some people know these are all different types of risk enhancing factors that weren't captured somewhere else and again you can see the values down here is no and then the actual lab core uh printout which in itself has information but not nearly in the type of context we tried to create above so that is the precision health report cardio metabolic risk report that's great again like i said i think the i think overall it it really covered a lot more in a robust manner that i would be especially interested in it's why i actually was getting more excited about actually having this discussion i figured we'd be kind of talking and i would i would like to actually talk to you a little bit more on the aspects of metabolic health overall and what if anything we may find that this phenotype you mentioned earlier lean mass hyperresponders actually originates from my 2017 article from before and we actually hope to have some some paperwork in coming to the literature soon on that by the way uh but that's enough depending on how granular you have that data i'd be happy to provide some additional context with some of these parameters that we're talking about that might be some interesting additional information beyond what you already have the higher ldl is something of considerable concern and i know that you were um on rob wolff recently and you were you were describing lee mass hype responders from your perspective they have a disordered lipid profile is that is that a fair characterization of your opinion so let's go back for a second uh i like the way you teed up the interface between catabolism anabolism and metabolism and then so that's what one perspective to kind of come into the conversation with a different perspective to come into the conversation with is what does disordered lipoprotein metabolism look like in various states and so i think you and i have kind of drifted toward the middle me coming from the pathophysiologic standpoint and you coming from the physiologic standpoint and those those are two different schools of thought you know one is looking for uh there are things that we think are wrong and have gone wrong and why are they wrong and then there are things that are the way the body works that can drift over into a phenotype looks like things that have been characterized as bad or abnormal and so when they intersect what does that mean and that's that's really i think what you and i have kind of tried to wrestle with a little bit of is you know how we we come to this from our world views and and what does that inform us as far as ways that we take something that is uh not real common that has only partially been characterized that that has not been systematically studied right and so i think that's kind of the confession of where we are with you know kind of how do we view something which is you know at its core does it does that kind of have a warm feel to it or does it have a a bristly feel to it and and so in my world uh you know things that are anthrogenic lipoproteins in large quantity over a long time with extraordinarily rare exception is bad that's just bad all right this can be remnant lipoproteins that are very anthrogenic these can be apu b containing lipoproteins like ldl that are problematic um and and we just know a lot of different examples where high values for a long time equals atherosclerosis events and things that aren't good now can there be exceptions to that rule yes and part of the exception i think is a time dependency of the observation if it's not your usual and customary day in and day out for long periods of time who knows whether that's going to have that sort of negative impact that we fear right on the other hand we should be careful that by saying by not having the answer to that that it's okay to leave people in that state for decades because you know what could go wrong and i think to me at least it's it's easier to have conversation are there physiologic abnormalities that i can identify as well as evidence of plaque and once i get into that sort of subset of individuals then i'm pretty convinced this is not a good thing we need to do something about it now if i can't identify that then i'm open to the idea that these can represent new learnings in either energy metabolism or other um types of compensatory reactions that we have under certain physiological circumstances and you know it is of unknown consequence and that's okay too i'm okay with that so driving the conversation from the physiology is normal if we do this i kind of run into some thin water there when i kind of come at it from the this is what disease looks like and and what we've been doing for 30 years to understand that you know that that's my deep end of the pool and so where we kind of come together i get a little shallow at some points and when you get shallow you kind of default back to that which you know best so just to let you know that's that's kind of what i see in this yes well and this is why i kind of want to link it back to the report in that one it could look graphically like oh great i have all these greens and just that like one red i'm good i'm gonna head out of here no actually to be fair there is some i think there's some validity to saying look given our existing understanding of the lipid hypothesis we already do have some analogous scenarios at least that's what's posited by brown and goldstein going back half a half a century ago which is we have children who are born with homozygous fh who do not have other risk factors they're not already smokers they're not morbidly obese they're they don't have hypertension or type a personalities all the things you would typically associate yet um i think in fact if i if memory serves the little girl they were looking at the very first one that kind of got them going she had roughly uh 700 ldl um at the time that they were looking she had developed xanthomas and even angina at age three and had her first mi at age six so there definitely is this um association that is is felt to be predominantly driven by apob containing labor proteins where this gets kind of interesting is getting back to what you're talking about is the existence of disease so nothing in my opinion nothing quite trumps actual detection of the physical presence of atherosclerosis which is why myself i like ct angiograms for example i think that it's great because you can then look not only at calcified but also non-calcified plaques do you already have some at baseline regardless of whether you became a lean mass hyper responder or not i think that's a super relevant question i'm sure you would agree and exactly like what you just said now what if they have been for a while but they don't have detectable levels of plaque is that you know time to stop looking i don't think so i think that this this new phenotype really does need close examination particularly in whether we see the presence of disease or for that matter the progression of disease which is why we're doing the clinical trial i think we need to find out more for sure so so what i would add to that is um fh true fh is a high lifetime atherosclerotic risk condition we don't even do risk calculators in fh patients because they have high lifetime pathogenic risk period now you may have an outlier who gets away with it that doesn't change the statement it's like saying i smoke two packs a day and i don't have copd or lung cancer therefore smoking's good obviously it's not but you know there are people who can smoke and get away with it more than others that's an example and it's a graded risk uh factor right the more you smoke the longer time the more impact it has true for hypertension true for all the other major risk factors that we have so um one of the things we we can say with fh is that you know again individuals are individuals but at the same time it is well established that trapping of apa b containing lipoproteins in the artery wall leads to inclusion in macrophages forming of foam cells and foam cells are the committed step of atherosclerosis so if your pathophysiology pulls you in that direction where you're getting lots of foam cell formation due to trapping and inclusion of apob contain lipoproteins that needs to stop uh that that is not something which should be entertained as okay so there are many many layers to that conversation and and i like the fact that we can have imaging technologies that give us better views uh than we had in the past but i would say that any objective evidence of atherosclerosis puts us in a different conversation than if we don't and any time that we have historical and this is another interesting idea um i had a 75 or so year old lady come to me recently second opinion i don't want to take a stand and i said well why are you taking a statin well she says i'm not my doctor wants me to take a step why does he want you to take a stand because i've got an ldl cholesterol of 200. interesting how long has it been that way you're the first doctor to ask me that she pulls out a three-ring binder and she can show me that five years previously is when she started to raise her ldl cholesterol okay so now you don't have a long exposure risk secondly what else is causing it she was hypothyroid hadn't been diagnosed so now we have a secondary hyperlipidemia due to hypothyroidism that manifested with high ldl cholesterol and the knee jerk was give a statin and the rest of the story was hadn't been there that long no evidence and coronary calcium was zero zero the guidelines say that at her age a zero de-risks her and makes statins optional for at least five years so again this dynamic conversation of i see the number what does it mean how long has it been there what are your arteries doing is a better quality conversation to have going into what are my options should i be worried should i do something different well uh we're both kind of coming up on a hard stop i just wanted to thank you once again bill for coming on and uh can you tell us again how do we how do we go and get this report sure uh so precision health reports is the company www.precisionhealthreports.oneword.com is our website so individuals can order the report it's also something that physicians and healthcare providers can order as well uh that's where the information is easiest found it's also and you can find us on linkedin and twitter and all that other stuff now i'm pretty active on twitter and social media you're maybe not as active on twitter you're very very kind do you do you have it's a pay grade above me not actually i regularly uh joke and it's not even really a joke that i know when somebody's smarter because they're not on twitter like me so don't don't worry about that is there any way that you'd recommend people try to get a hold of you if they need to sure so first initial last name w cromwell at precisionhealthreports.com that's the email they can find me uh i did do a little series on twitter recently one that was just trying to tee up this idea of shared decision making and what does that look like you know how are we moving from a risk factor model to a model which is more inclusive of the type of things we report um and i found making threads and whatnot uh very challenging so anyway i i enjoy having these conversations more um looking forward to uh you know hearing from folks and seeing what we can do to help well once again i as as the venn diagram goes even if we occasionally get caught up discussing lipids i mean there's so much of what you have here that just overlaps with the things i care about so i really appreciate it i think i think you guys are heading in the right direction and uh i you know i hope to see this model thrive you know not what not just with you but just in general with this multi-faceted approach to giving a better risk analysis so once again bill thanks for coming on and i hope to see you again soon thanks dave take care

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ViOxWU6S_M0 (https://youtu.be/ViOxWU6S_M0) ===

hi guys i am excited to say that we are now published the lean mass hyper responders study is now in the literature under current developments in nutrition i'll have a link that's down below go ahead and click it to download it and read it for yourself and i'm only going to just hit a few highlights what this is is primarily a combination of standing survey data which we had over a thousand participants and we narrowed it down to those who have gone on a carb restricted diet and also a case series of five individuals under dr tro's care who took on an intervention which i'll talk about in a moment but again i'm only going to hit a few of the highlights the first and biggest one is something that i've been observing for some time particularly in the phenomenon of lean mass hyper responders which is to say those people who go on a low carb diet but tend to be leaner and presumably a bit more metabolically healthy tend to see the highest pronounced increase in their ldl cholesterol but conversely those people are more metabolically challenged who tend to for example have high triglycerides and low hdl when they start the diet and especially if they have much more bmi they tended to not see that much of a pronounced change in ldl especially in the direction going upward and the survey data backs it up with some extraordinary correlations this seems to show that indeed there does tend to be a high association between both of those axes triglycerides and hdl versus ultimately resulting bmi they tend to have a very strong association with high ldl so this could be considered fairly good news uh for those people who are certainly concerned about having high ldl and or for that matter that they may see their ldl go high but they're already in a metabolically challenged state this seems to suggest that there might be less of a likelihood of that conversely for those people who are lean metabolically healthy and then decide to go fully ketogenic this could be somewhat might be predictive of the higher likelihood that they would see a higher increase in ldl now again got to put forward that there's limitations this is survey data it there is a degree of self-selection you know those folks who are going to be following me but that said the degree of correlation across the cascade of all of these different subgroups is pretty substantial now this brings me around to dr tro's intervention so for those who do see a substantial increase in their ldl they are leaner and typically more metabolically healthy as assessed in these case series well for those folks who are choosing not to take on medication to lower their ldl but would like to lower their ldl he does just a moderate introduction of carbs and per what we would predict with the lipid energy model they do and see they they do indeed see a drop in their ldl in fact in some cases uh quite substantial the person who had the highest ldl saw one of the greatest changes from just a moderate introduction of carbohydrates so in that regard again if you're already somebody who's concerned about high ldl on a low carb diet this paper has got something for both populations in that regard and is something that you may want to consider lastly of course we do also go through a lot of limitations i mentioned the survey data limitations and that there's also further study because we don't really address risk in this paper that's what the coming clinical data that we're hoping to get with the lungquist institute which as you know is ongoing right now we're about i want to say four or five months into so that data should help illuminate a bit more especially on risks on the cardiovascular disease side with the lean mass hyper responder phenotype so once again if you could go ahead and download this paper the more the more downloads the more hits the more this actually helps support the research because it helps spread further awareness and helps us out to move this forward thank you so much

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Z3vN8VqZvOw (https://youtu.be/Z3vN8VqZvOw) ===

welcome to own your labs own your labs is an online service that helps you order your blood work privately through labcorp it works in three simple steps first go through our site and add blood tests to your cart which you can then pay for a checkout second after you've placed your order we email you an order sheet for you to print out and bring to your nearest lab corp to get your blood work done and third when lab corp completes its testing you can review your results on their patient portal there are also other companies like ours that offer this service and we do encourage you to comparison shop we even list our favorite choices on the website but there is something very unique about owner labs and why we launched it like ourselves we want to encourage everyone to share their anonymized data to help our community and advance science so when checking out at owner labs you are given this choice directly you can complete your purchase without contribution or you can help out by adding some demographic information and agreeing to submit your anonymized data to our data pool as an incentive we give a special discount for everyone who opts in bear in mind your first and last name date of birth city and any contact information are always withheld from this data pool to help ensure anonymity thank you for watching and let us know if you have any further questions you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: osCt5xHq_CU (https://youtu.be/osCt5xHq_CU) ===

welcome to cholesterolcode.com this site serves as an information and research hub for emerging data on cholesterol particularly in the context of a low carbohydrate lifestyle everything discussed in this video will have matching links in the description down below if you know little to nothing about cholesterol you can check out our simple guide to cholesterol series it's full of illustrations and is written for laypeople you can also enter your cholesterol numbers into our popular report tool to check them against many risk calculations at the same time if you're wanting to learn more about why cholesterol could be higher particularly on a low carb diet you can watch my recent presentation to stanford university on the lip energy model you can check out our lipid energy model poster or you can check out our frequently asked questions page if you're looking to better understand the risk associated with high cholesterol on a low carb diet you can watch my deep dive on cholesterol and risk presentation for more optimistic outlook or you can read the case for lower ldl on low carb by spencer nadowski for the more pessimistic counterpoint if you'd like to understand possible benefits of cholesterol and the immune system you can read shavon's overview article on the topic or watch her presentation and if you'd like to learn more about lip protein little a you can check out her presentation on this topic as well lastly you can always just ask us anything on our questions page just be aware our site does not constitute medical advice and we always recommend consulting with your doctor

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: CeNopAjAWs4 (https://youtu.be/CeNopAjAWs4) ===

the moment has finally arrived after a year planning fundraising and intense coordination we're proud to announce our study design is now being powered by our biostatistician as the last step before being submitted to the irb committee for evaluation once approved we will begin the process of recruiting participants for the study when that stage arrives we'll be announcing it on the citizen science foundation website and across social media we managed to get the center we wanted to do the study and we'll be announcing it when the irb is approved this study would have cost several times the two hundred thousand dollars we raised but i'm pleased to say we worked out getting the price down to this budget particularly given our mutual interest in the data however this does present us with one more stage of fundraising we'll need to complete travel and genetic testing all the participants will need to be flown to the city of the study be taxied to their hotel room stay overnight to be fully fasted and relaxed further testing in the morning taxied back to the airport afterwards and then flown out for the return trip and this needs to happen twice for each participant one for the baseline test and a second round a year later for the follow-up we believe we can negotiate these expenses in a bulk package deal with the airline hotel and ride sharing services to get this down to around 250 dollars per visit of our 100 participants for a total of fifty thousand dollars secondly we need to raise funds for genetic screening so that we can ensure no one in the experiment with high cholesterol has this due to an underlying condition such as familial hypercholesterolemia we estimate the cost for this to be around a hundred dollars for each of the one hundred participants for a total of ten thousand dollars thus we need to raise another sixty thousand dollars but get this we already have an anonymous donor who has offered to match half of it so really we just need to raise thirty thousand dollars and that's where you come in you can show your commitment in two important ways contribute to the citizensciencefoundation.org and or please share this video to help us reach this critical milestone so that we can launch this study when our irb approval comes back thank you once again for all your support

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Va5g5reOGLM (https://youtu.be/Va5g5reOGLM) ===

this should be a study that's funded more by people who are skeptics of low carbers who have high ldl than it should be from the low carbers themselves if you believe that low carbs are being very reckless with their high ldl and again this is me stating plainly you could be right then you should be absolutely in favor of us being able to make the study happen because it should show in scans one year apart and cta very high resolution that there's a high progression of atherosclerosis particularly if you believe ldl is indeed causal and is log linear and it's so this is really cool i mean just people know this is what dave is doing he has a cohort of lean mass hyper responders who are being followed longitudinally with sequential cta scans i can't wait for the results and we'll see i know spencer thinks it's going to be one way and i think it's going to be the other way and dave is kind of impartial he's the impartial observer and i love that we're talking yeah go ahead i'm not truly impartial i mean i i certainly i certainly as i regularly say i'm cautiously optimistic but what i mean by cautiously optimistic is i'm not certain and i i i've never claimed certainty that ldl doesn't cause atherosclerosis at a concentration level uh but that said given the information i've seen to date given everything that i've looked at in particular when i look at combination data i have come to a different conclusion and i want to see this in the metabolic context that's the thing i i think if there's any driver that we've got to put forward and you know what this actually is a good segue to get into what i want to say is in my in my opinion the proper framing of this debate so i was on a podcast recently with sigma nutrition that's uh danny lennon and alan flanagan and let me first start off by saying they were total gentlemen and i've had some great private conversations with them even though they're very much pro-lipit hypothesis i think it's been a very productive conversation what happened was is they were bringing up the so-called lipid triad as you know i like to identify just to keep it at basic level what we see often with low carbers and with lean mass hype responders that their ldl goes up a lot their hdl goes up a lot and their triglycerides go down so it's it's a triad it's those three together and they were discussing why it is that low carbers shouldn't feel comforted by that triad if it's if it's alongside high ldl so i then came onto their podcast and talked about that and tried to make the case for what i'd like to call the lipid profile versus lipoprotein centric viewpoint but after the podcast happened they ended up doing an article that kind of tried to address a lot of the things i brought up in the podcast and after reading the article i thought well i could do it you know a very exhausted point by point on a lot of the things they're bringing up but i really kind of want to next level this in fact i want to next level this with everybody because there seems to be this constant talking past each other in this critical role of context so how best can i frame what it is that i would consider to be compelling data and that meets the bradford hill criteria and it's pretty simple i'm going to start linguistically calling these two different sets of data one set of data is single lipid data so if you look at a lipid marker in isolation that's single lipid data the other is combination lipid data where you're going to actually look at lipids alongside other lipid markers now in order to say hey we can make the case that ldl is causal with single lipid data you you have to be able to confirm that that's the case also with combination lipid data you can't make the case only in single lipid data because that's a category that's lumping both the lipid triad and atherogenic dyslipidemia together you see the problem exactly that's exactly what we're talking about and that's and that's the issue is you're you're bringing up things that may or may not be relevant which is of course a population that's already sick which we already know if you were to just grab a random number of americans you're going to find what we already see in the statistics which is many of them are in a disease state and we don't know from that how many of those have say atherogenic dyslipidemia which is like the opposite of the triad it's low hdl and high triglycerides we don't know how much that affects ldl levels downstream now in order to make the case for a single lipid data to be causal you need to likewise state plainly that you're certain that things like atherogenic dyslipidemia do not affect lipid levels like ldl since that is the the point of interest in other words in order to say a causes b you need to be sure of two things that are not the case which is that b has any effect over a and and this is important that there's no c or d or e or anything that's causing both so simply stated just like with bradford hill to meet consistency you shouldn't be able to find any population for which say smoking causes longevity right for the same reason you shouldn't be able to see any population for which high aldol causes longevity if you believe it is a net risk outcome you should have the wide open invitation that i could go and find anything and that and that's why like i think from now on i just need to be more clear especially if the conversation comes up that i'm very interested in lipid numbers and i'm especially interested in looking at ldl i'm just not interested in looking at ldl and isolation in a vacuum you can't look at ldl without context it doesn't give me a lot of information and i've got a good analogy to show you uh everything that we can see in making a single metric case and that's body weight so body weight associates with for example blood pressure the higher your blood the higher your body weight the more likely your blood pressure increases right and generally speaking generally if you just grab a bunch of random people and you have them lose body weight their blood pressure is going to go down are there genetic factors that can result in higher body weight yes if you have genetic factors that result in higher body weight does that often associate with higher blood pressure yes okay if you have an intervention that just randomly grabs people and it reduces their body weight will it likewise reduce their blood pressure yeah actually just in in general in random right okay so obviously somebody who's being annoying can come in and say look this is obvious this can be applying to people who are obese and not be applying to those people or say bodybuilders we need to at least be able to confirm that that applies to both groups independently that meets bradford hill so let's go look at those people who don't just have a higher body weight but also have for example a smaller waist to height ratio and if you say to that person no we have enough data we've done a thousand studies on body weights association with um with blood pressure to where we can make the claim that it's causal you don't meet the bradford hill criteria this is what's great about bradford hill it already had that built in it's already baked into his existing assessments and that's that's what i would say not just to sigma nutrition but to anybody who wants to look just at single lipid data as the only primary means to make a case for causality

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: C1T-7-6bpz8 (https://youtu.be/C1T-7-6bpz8) ===

you've heard me talk a lot before about the lipid energy model which is that many going on a low-carb diet observe their cholesterol levels rise and through a series of experiments myself and many others have helped find connections between metabolic changes and cholesterol levels i have and continue to hypothesize these cholesterol levels are highly influenced by the trafficking of fat around the body in lipoproteins the boats your body makes so i'm going to start this off with a pretty funny question what can this bag teach us about fat storage of course you know you're looking right now at a mesh bag full of golf balls what if you couldn't open or close this bag but what if you could break the balls apart to small enough pieces to get through the mesh holes if you could then then you'd have some idea on how fat based storage works so let me introduce you to triglycerides this is the storage form of fat based fuel commonly found in adipocytes and lipoproteins and it's big it's bulky so it stays within membranes really well now when it's time for you to go ahead and take them out with the help of some enzymes you break them apart process called de-esterification and now they can fit through the membrane which is great i want you to know what these con these constituent components are because they're going to be very relevant to this larger story it's glycerol and free fatty acids so glycerol is a simple polyol compound it's very soluble in the bloodstream so it mixes in well it travels easily and it's commonly used by the liver to generate glucose a process known as gluconeogenesis and then there's free fatty acids this is the free form of fat based fuel and it's very insoluble in water so it's commonly found attached to albumin a very very prominent protein in the bloodstream and this small molecule can easily slip through membranes what's happening over and over again is these two are being converted back and forth to each other triglycerides being de-esterified into glycerol and free fatty acids and then both of those being re-esterified back into triglycerides to get inside membranes and remain there because that's again this the storage form of fat so with that in mind let's talk about the lipid energy model on the left side we've got body fat just imagine it's all the body fat and on the right side we have the liver and in the middle we've got tissues in need and think of this in the context of you're moving from a mixed diet or carb-centric diet to a low-carb diet so we leave it with this when healthy and going on a low carb diet we hypothesize that a higher continual release of free fatty acids from adipocytes so zero fat cells can provide those fatty acids to tissues in need this makes sense because as you're losing weight and you need to draw on those fatty acids that's where you can get them from but also there's a higher uptake of free fatty acids by the liver and that's important because they can break down those fatty acids for higher production of ketone bodies this is a process known as ketogenesis and everything i've just now showed you is not controversial everyone agrees on it there's really no debate the next part is going to get a bit trickier what we posit is that actually there's a higher re-esterification of triglycerides in the liver as in these free fatty acids are now being recomposed into triglyceride cargo and now there's a higher secretion of this triglyceride cargo on board lipoproteins particularly vldls this in turn results in greater direct supply of vldl to both adipose and non-adipose tissues further there's higher turnover of these vldl and delivering this triglyceride cargo to these tissues and then there's the final money shot which is that this has a higher resulting number of ldl particles so those vldls that are leaving just you know bloated with these triglycerides they're dropping off their cargo very rapidly there's just this high turnover and what do you call a vldl that's been relieved of all of its triglyceride cargo well it's an ldl full stop this however is controversial this process and all of its parts are something that there's quite a lot of debating uh with me and many others not just outside the low carb community but also inside the low carb community and it's good it's healthy so now we have to look for clues for each of these steps and that's a lot of what we're doing now we're putting together the paper looking for all of the research beyond just what we've been able to do with our own experiments that can either help confirm or disconfirm this model

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: EwBFrjJOcvY (https://youtu.be/EwBFrjJOcvY) ===

Hello everyone. Uh welcome back to the channel. I know I haven't been doing videos for a little while, but I'm pretty excited to be joined by Philippa. Hello. Hi. And I'm going to do just a little bit of setup for you guys uh because I think it's going to be kind of important to understand we're going to be talking about what's known as uh lean mass hyper responder. So I'm going to share my screen real quick. Uh many of you who follow my work probably already know this pretty well, but in case you didn't, uh for many who go on a low-carb diet and by many really I mean a fraction of the total, uh but there are some people who are especially lean and or athletic um who especially go very low-carb and tend to see this phenotype which I wrote about 3 years ago um which I was seeing this pattern quite a bit. For example, having LDL cholesterol of 200 mg per deciliter or higher, HDL of 80 or higher and triglycerides of 70 or lower. Any of these three by themselves are already extremely rare. So it's even that much more incredible that all three of them together would be a common enough phenotype that not only did that article get a lot of response, but it's now become pretty central to my research and we even have a Facebook group that we set up for lean mass hyper responders where now I think it's somewhere around 5,000 members. It's crazy just how many there are. And that's uh also how I met you, Philippa. Uh and so why don't you, you know, actually before you get started, I want to kind of say one other thing too, which is um let me first be sure I can stop my screen share here. Which is that you you would say that your opinion kind of runs counter against probably the majority of the lean mass hyper responder group in that they sort of share a little bit more my sentiment that we're I guess many would say that they're cautiously optimistic about this phenotype that perhaps being a lean mass hyper responder may if anything be neutral or even beneficial. You're not so sure about that, right? Yeah, I'm not so sure about it, and I think uh my perspective is slightly different from some in that I'm not so focused on the numbers. So, a lot of the concerns obviously very high cholesterol numbers, you're going to get heart disease, that sort of thing, because of the high cholesterol. What I'm more concerned about is is the high cholesterol numbers a manifestation of some underlying hormonal dysregulation. Right. Let me Let me Actually, that's what we need to be concerned about. And let me just pause you there because basically I I want to set up that I'm very interested, uh particularly for anybody in the group who has a different opinion uh than mine that might have um a different model as to why it is that this phenotype might appear. It's the one thing I'm very proud of for that group is that we've managed to remain generally science-centric, I think, and not so much advocacy-centric. And part of how you do that is you do exactly what we're doing today, which is to try to engage other opinions, uh especially if they have one that's very different than everybody else. And Philippa, part of the reason I had you on is because you've put a lot of effort, I think, into researching this subject and sort of developing your own theory, even if it is one that is currently in develop in development. So, go ahead and uh get us started. How how did you get connected to the group in the first place? What what brought you to the Lean Mass Hyper-responder Facebook group? Okay, so um my husband had a a TIA, which is a mini stroke, in January 2018. Um at the time he was um hypertensive, so he had high blood pressure, he had abdominal obesity, um he was certainly insulin resistant, generally unhealthy. Um and as the process of trying to get him healthy after that, we discovered keto, low carb, fasting. He lost an awful lot of weight, normalized his blood pressure, resolved acid reflux, you know, many other um sort of problems. And quite a complicated journey on the way, but for for many months his cholesterol was sort of around five and a bit millimolar, which I can't do the translation, but like slightly higher than your doctors would like, but not massively high. Um and obviously being in the low-carb world, I was kind of familiar with your work. I come across your videos, you know, I was kind of into it, but for a long time it wasn't really relevant because his cholesterol wasn't really that high. It was never a level that I, you know, would have been concerning to me. Um and then at some point his cholesterol started to really rise, and I think the highest um his I got the numbers here. Hold on. I have to look them up. Um the highest his LDL got was seven um millimoles, which is 271 uh milligrams per deciliter. His trigs were low. His HDL was high. He He started to look like a lean mass hyper responder. Um and so at that time I became a lot more interested in it because it was suddenly really relevant. Um and probably around that time, you know, I I started being part of the group. I'm not sure when. Um and sort of long story short, what uh I discovered eventually was that he had really quite a subtle underlying thyroid dysfunction. Once we normalized the thyroid function, his LDL massively came down. So, the the lowest it came down to uh LDL was 1.76 millimolar, which is 68 milligrams per deciliter. Um HDL still remaining good. Trigs still remaining good. Um so, that really crystallized for me, and it it's a slightly long story, but it it was almost fortuitous that I discovered that there was a thyroid issue there because he certainly never um it it it would never have been picked up unless I was tracking things really quite carefully and I'm putting a few pieces of puzzle together. For example, his TSH, which is a normal measure of thyroid function, it it's it never went above four. Um and the normal range is is below five. So, it would never been picked up by anybody in general, um but it it did turn out to really be the main reason why his cholesterol was high. Um, and so, on the background of that, and because he still has some issues, so he has a a a low hemoglobin, which can't be put down to any of the normal causes. Um, and slightly low hemoglobin, low red cell count is also something that we see in in a significant number of LeMas high responders. And so, I've carried on sort of being involved with the LeMas high responder group, and being interested in it particularly because I feel like it it may still hold some, um, some clues as to sort of the the ongoing, um, struggles that I'm having to optimize his health. But, that that was really sort of what what led me in to the group, and also what made me think that possibly there's something else underlying this rather than, um, just, um, sort of sort of just being, you know, fueled by fat. Now, you yourself, you were already keen to be looking in the direction of the thyroid because you, uh, and I think this precedes your your husband's history, you already were working with some thyroid issues of your own. Is that right? Yeah, so I've had, um, Hashimoto's thyroiditis for many years, and on thyroid replacement therapy. So, yeah, so, you know, thyroid was on my radar, um, um, but yeah, it it's and I I was aware of the connection with cholesterol, but as I say, it was quite a surprise to me, even thinking that I knew something about thyroid problems, um, that sort of he ended up having that the thyroid ended up having that much effect on his cholesterol. And that's what really led me to believe that I think the the low carbness and the leanness and any possible underlying thyroid dysfunction really have a a very sort of multiplicative effect on the on the cholesterol because under normal circumstances, even someone with raging hypothyroidism, really low thyroid function, they wouldn't necessarily see those levels of cholesterol that we are seeing in in the lean mass hyper responders group. So, it seems to be an interaction potentially there. So, so you would posit or I feel like and not to overly brief not to overly simplify your hypothesis. You think that actually a substantial number of lean mass hyper responders basically may or you're concerned that they may have a dysfunctional thyroid system. Would Would you say that's correct? I think that's a a definite possibility. I mean, we know that we have a lot of people in the Facebook group who who do have thyroid dysfunction who will talk about their thyroid meds and that sort of thing. I am getting a little bit more of the opinion that we have probably quite a heterogeneous group in the lean mass hyper responders. I don't think perhaps the etiology of the high cholesterol for all of them is the same. And so, I think there will be definitely um a chunk of them who have overt thyroid disease, uh sort of, you know, not optimally controlled on medication, which is difficult to do anyway. Um there's probably a section like my husband who have very mild covert thyroid dysfunction that they may never really realize that they had, but nonetheless might be contributing to their thyroid numbers when they're low carb. And then, I think there's potentially uh sort of I've I know that you've said before that um if if people stay low carb long enough and get lean enough and healthy enough, then they will turn into lean mass hyper responders that you can almost kind of put bets on it. Yeah, that's mostly what is is my is my current hypothesis, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um and so so the other sort of side to that is um I think an awful lot of people the etiology is possibly one of being too lean and undereating or overtraining and being in a state of relative energy deficiency. And whether that effect on the on on the cholesterol is entirely mediated by thyroid or whether it's mediated equally or as well by other factors such as low leptin, which again we know influences the thyroid axis, or low levels of IGF-1, which again we know is associated with higher cholesterol. That that I don't know. I mean, you know, that that's definitely a mystery. We know that obviously in fasting and in low-carb diets levels of what's sometimes called the active thyroid hormone T3 drop quite a lot. Free T3 drops, but total T3 drops more. There's still many questions over the sort of the mechanism of that and the sort of the whether that represents any form of um low thyroid signaling in different parts of the body, but that that may well be one axis. Um But I say that there there may be something specifically to do with potentially leptin and just IGF-1 and reduced anabolic signaling in general that sort of I mean, you can't really split them apart because the the thyroid hormones are part of anabolic signaling. Right. But yeah, it it may be that obviously, you know, if we if we take the principle that if you get lean enough, you will become a lean mass hyper responder, then it wouldn't make any sense that, you know, all the people that managed to get really lean just happen to all be people with thyroid dysfunction. That that wouldn't make any sense. And so, I suspect there's something about being lean enough, under eating, over training, being in a state of relative energy deficiency that is enough to cause your cholesterol to go particularly high if you're on a low-carb diet or something. Well, I think I think that our our theories aren't mutually exclusive. You probably know my energy model well enough to know just the broad view of it, right? So, so certainly one major component to my hypothesis is that effectively in order for there to be higher turnover of fatty acids uh, both in delivery via, you know, your adipose sites, so that they're they're catching and releasing at a higher rate. And on top of that, there's a higher rate of synthesis and secretion of VLDL triglycerides, which are why there's a higher resulting LDL. That there almost certainly needs to be a higher relative lipolysis, which is that process by which adipose tissue is releasing the free fatty acids. Now, of course, there's a very long chain in which we can discuss the thyroid, and it can get very complicated. We'd have to like start at the hypothalamus and all the other stuff, but I think, just from one theorist to the other, speaking specifically about T3, I guess a way I would ask this is, is there a scenario in which you wouldn't uh, need lower levels of T3, or let me put it this way, in which you wouldn't have resulting lower levels of T3 alongside higher levels of lipolysis? And I don't know of such a scenario. And if that's true, then how can we know whether it's the horse or the cart that we're looking at? Does that make sense? Possibly. I'll start talking, and then you'll tell me if I'm I'm on the right track, in terms of what you're what I think you're asking. Um, I think you're asking is is low T3 or low T3 signaling compatible with increased lipolysis? Is that I would say that it's it's almost certainly always the case. In fact, I don't know of a case in which you would have low T3 um, without there being some kind of disease state in which you don't have higher relative lipolysis. Yeah, I mean, it it will probably go together, as I say, because T3 is an anabolic signaling hormone. So, you know, lipolysis is probably more regulated by insulin, um, and probably the catecholamines, I would I would think. Um, but, yeah, I mean, as you say, you know, we're we're both looking at the same data, that you know, if you get very lean and you're drawing heavily on your adipose tissue and and you know, particularly if you're fasting or not eating very much then you are seeing the same things. I think where we differ is a in how concerned should we be about that state and be your hypothesis revolves around increased liver production of VLDL and I you know, I've I've looked around the literature on sort of you know, fasting metabolism and low carb metabolism and and those sorts of things for a long time and everything that I see suggests that when you have large amount of free fatty acid delivery to the liver all those sort of enzymes that regulate the production of VLDL are down regulated. The the body you know, doesn't want to produce VLDL when it's in a fasted state. Oh, that's what that's definitely new to me. So you're saying that that higher free fatty acids being taken up from hepatocytes, the liver cells would not drive higher VLDL production? No, I I think from what I've looked at it generally and in that scenario they're they're beta oxidized. They're either pushed through the Krebs cycle or they're shunted to ketogenesis and and that's the main sort of disposal mechanism. I would be very interested in any studies you can poke at. And and this isn't this isn't me pushing back and saying that there aren't any. On the contrary, I think there's certainly a subtlety that I do draw toward in that if you are not athletic and or thin especially that there's certainly a greater shunting towards ketogenesis, the breakdown of fatty acids because of course it makes a lot of sense. You need more of those ketones for the brain. They can cross the blood brain barrier etc. But in the case this is this is part of why I posit that I think lean mass hyper responders we typically find they they test with lower BHB levels. I suspect that in a eventually I have enough data, they'll also test with lower acetone levels, suggesting that they are actually in proportionality, they're proportionally breaking down and creating less ketones and instead delivering more of these free fatty acids on board VLDL's. But all of that said, I don't actually know of any studies that show that the amount of free fatty acids coming to the liver are preferentially shunted towards the ketogenesis pathway even at a 51% or more ratio. I think it's it's usually driving greater VLDL production. But but like I said, I I don't know I haven't read every single study there is. I'd be very interested to know if there are. Yeah, I mean I can send you a few things that kind of point in that direction. It's slightly frustrating that we don't have just a proper tracer study in lean mass hyper responders cuz it would answer the question. What's the problem? You just need to go Um because yeah, I mean certainly I think part of the confusion will come from the fact that free fatty acid delivery to the liver is often studied in the context of of metabolic on the health. Sick populations. Yes. Yeah, sick populations where you're particularly interested in sort of fatty liver and you know high amount of free fatty acids being delivered to the liver. And to add to that What is the liver going to do with it and Right, and to add to that, we already have studies that show for example severely uh insulin resistant hepatocytes will treat fatty acids and for that matter insulin differently once they reach a certain pathological state. And so it's it's absolutely true. It's It's like a broader complaint that I have with medical science overall is we should be spending over 50% of our efforts looking at healthy populations and then taking that data before we instead we have like 90% of our data off of sick populations and then try to extrapolate from that on what we think is healthy. And I think it's it's backwards, but anyway, I'm sorry to to continue with your point. Go ahead. Yeah, so I I think there's there's probably many nuances about what happens to to fatty acids that delivered to the liver, but in many ways the the idea that they're repackaged out into VLDL's, especially let's take the case of um fasting or starvation. It really makes very little sense to me. It's essentially futile, you know, futile cycling, you know, you're you're you're releasing energy and then you're sort of spending energy, you know, creating apo apo B's and packaging these things up and you know, secreting them again in order to be broken down again. You know, it it doesn't make a great deal of sense. Sorry. Can I give you the counter argument to that? Go ahead. Cuz the futile cycle, actually that's a term that has been used before in papers that Shivan and I have read. Cuz it doesn't seem to make a lot of sense to people why it is that there'd be this release of energy that would then just come back to many of the same places. But when you think about it, systemically it makes a whole lot of sense because it reduces the amount of systemic effort to target particular tissues. So if certain tissues are in need, and this is why I like to use the buffet analogy. Think of a buffet, right? If you're running a diner where all the food is made to order, then you have to scale your wait staff up with the total number of of tables you're servicing, right? Whereas conversely, if you're running a buffet, it's much easier to have a larger quantity of customers against a buffet because you don't actually need to keep checking on the tables for whether or not they're getting the specific food that they want. You don't even have to check their desire. You can keep your eye on the actual buffet lines themselves. See how much of the food is going up and down, right? Well, in a sense, what's happening and it makes a lot of sense to me from a load balancing standpoint, you know, that's a little bit more of a of a computer networking standpoint, is you're you're saying, "Look, we're just going to have one central command and control that's making sure that it continually repletes energy." And so, as energy comes in, it makes sure it goes back out, but on top of that, it can make more informed decisions by just how much energy is coming in versus how much is going out relative to other operational controls it has. So, it you know, obviously responds liver responds a lot to many different signals in the endocrine system, but as far as constantly repleting the adipose stores all around your body, it allows for greater global trafficking to get particular targeted tissues. Let me use kind of a simple example. Let's say that I've got, you know, my forearm and I'm flexing it a lot and I'm using just a lot of muscle tissue there. And therefore, there's going to need to be more energy availability that comes to it at a certain point, especially as I kind of expend more of the energy that's available in tissues, not just, you know, from its own glycogen stores, but also from neighboring adipose tissue that may have free fatty acids. So, I need other adipose tissue fatty acids made available to it. Well, while that's driving a lot of VLDL production, in spite of the fact that a lot of it's going to just get repleated and re-esterified back into adipose tissue itself, a good portion of those are also still going to make it to those target tissues because it doesn't have to get targeted. There doesn't have to be special mechanisms in place because it's just being made bioavailable throughout the body. And that's that's I think kind of the genius of the human body is that it's really good about bringing up and down those buffet lines of, you know, energy on demand. So, anyway, that's kind of that's kind of why I feel like it's it's exactly the opposite of a futile cycle. It It's why It's why you could like build up the muscle in your arm pretty easily, but it's kind of hard to build up the fat in your arm or reduce the fat in your arm specifically against say your other arm is because that repletion cycle is constantly going on. Yeah, I mean I would probably say that you you have enough free fatty acids probably circulating to provide the energy to whichever part of your body needs it. I mean I see potentially your argument is that a VLDL particle can go directly to a locality of the body and there where it is released a whole heap of free fatty acids. And I suppose there might be something to that, but as I say I I can send you a few papers, but certainly it does seem that that the the export of VLDL is really when the body is in a state of energy surplus. The the those pathways appear to be upregulated. It maybe. I mean it depends on how much got released via lipolysis. That's why I think you could be really thin and be circulating more VLDLs. That gets back to the model because you need more global trafficking. More global trafficking trafficking to support the local tissue needs. And and it's I I've I've come to realize that it is hard to kind of get this across to a lot of different people because it's sort of for us on the engineering end especially with networking, it's it's thinking about things on a on a lot on a little a little more of a distributed object sense. And really I shouldn't even be saying energy. I should be saying energy potential. But it's in redistributing energy potential on a mass scale that has actually a relatively low level of effort on the part of the means of distribution because of how it works with adipocytes. Adipocytes are key are a key ingredient to this whole schema if you will because they're kind of like the local food bank if you will to those to those tissues as necessary. But, their constant repletion is a key component to how you distribute this and yet still make it locally available. Those those Sorry, go ahead. So, you are actually saying, so what I was thinking is let let's take a state of fasting because that's the the most sort of clear-cut state. My characterization of your proposition was that um the body is uh patching up VLDLs to go to sites where they're needed, e.g., skeletal muscle, and release a whole package of of fatty acids at that site to be used by the muscle tissue. But, what you appear to be saying is that those VLDLs are repleting adipose tissue even in a fasted state? Yes. Yes. Uh not not necessarily to the same degree, but at at any given moment, I I guarantee your non-esterified fatty acids that are getting packaged into VLDL, there are some proportion of them are going to target tissues yes, that are non-adipose, but also lots of them are going back to adipose and getting re-esterified there depending on the level of demand. Now, it's it's it's fascinating because there is still one other issue, which of course my own experiments helped to expose to some degree, which is that there is um I guess you could call it a bunching up and spreading out effect, almost kind of an accordion effect, based on what you've been doing in say like a 2- or 3-day time span. So, for example, um when I do the the protocol, there's a lot more bunching up that happens that if I continued the protocol, it will start to kind of spread out. And and it's and it's appears to be, of course, the body's trying to find homeostasis with the amount of energy it wants to have in and out of the bloodstream based on these changing conditions. That's kind of understandable. And and this is the same case with say fasting. For example, a lot of people will fast and they'll see their triglycerides go up, which may seem surprising to them, Particularly given that they're, you know, clearly in a state of energy deficit exogenously, right? Why endogenously would it be going up? But almost invariably if somebody's been, you know, doing this for say 7 days, their triglycerides are lower than when they started. And it seems to me that it's because the body's found that homeostasis, of course. I mean, there's certainly going to be differences to a short-term effect and then and then as you say, as the body finds its homeostasis, which is probably why your your Feldman protocol works so well because it is very carefully calculated to to a certain number of days. But I mean, the reason that sounds so strange to me and and again, I sort of look at things a lot from the the hormonal standpoint, which is how the the body regulates energy metabolism. You know, my understanding is that when when you need energy in the blood, lipolysis is an action and you're not building up adipose tissue. Like the two things are fairly mutually exclusive. Um and for you know, in the same way, if you're needing sugar into the bloodstream, your um your liver is releasing glucagon, uh you know, breaking down glucagon and releasing it and it's not sort of building up glucagon at the same time. I think a good way to describe it I think a good way to describe it is it's not it's not a state machine. It's not an either an either or. It's an either will be, but it's you know, cuz nothing is ever stopped, you know, the body never stops things. But you definitely have a reciprocal as one goes up, one goes down. And so it's interesting cuz I I hadn't twigged that that was part of your hypothesis before, the fact that you believe that this VLDL is actually going back and sort of building up adipose at the same time as the adipose is releasing free fatty acids through through lipolysis. So uh that that sounds very curious to me, but it's it's interesting that I I Yeah, actually, you know what? Um while we're talking, uh cuz I cuz I'm going to ask you another question that you'll unpack and then we'll bounce back to this one. I have a a chart from a paper that I think is really kind of illustrative of this. Um but let's let's actually first discuss and this is the one question I want to ask for you. If is it possible for somebody who had never had any kind of hypothyroidism um symptoms of any sort who went on a very low carb diet uh may have already been somewhat lean see the phenotype of lean mass hyper responder. Do you think it's possible through medication alone that you could erase the lean mass hyper responder phenotype and basically take them back to the numbers that they had before? If the underlying issue was that they had a subtle thyroid dysfunction. Yeah, well that's of course the reason I ask it this way is it's to see A, did they induce it by going on a low carb diet? As in it didn't exist there before, therefore it wasn't likely genetic. Is it possible that they induced it through the low carb diet? Like that's that's one part of it. And the other part of it is would would changing that change like could they change that through medication and there would be no deleterious impact uh in making that change through medication. So so there I I think there's two scenarios which are probably quite important to distinguish. So I think there's some people who have uh subtle underlying thyroid dysfunction probably autoimmune because most is um and if they go on a low carb diet, they will see their cholesterol go up. If they then replace their thyroid hormones adequately, will their cholesterol go back to normal? Potentially. The reason I hesitate is because the thyroid disfunction was was probably fairly subtle to begin with. And as I say, getting thyroid replacement spot on is a little bit tricky at the best of times and and so they may just not, you know, exogenous hormones are never quite going to replace getting your own thyroid really working optimally. So, they may or they may not. Um they the other scenario is somebody who So, what we were discussing about at the beginning, people who have no particular autoimmune underlying thyroid dysfunction, but because they are very lean, probably under-eating, probably over-training, they um get this low T3 syndrome and whether or not that's the main driver or whether as I say, you know, lack of insulin signaling, lack of IGF-1 signaling, lack of leptin signaling, whether those are more the main players, we don't know, but let let's say that their cholesterol then goes high. Question is if you give them a lot of T3, uh will their cholesterol go down? I mean, it's a slightly risky thing to do. Um so, I wouldn't necessarily recommend that people do these experiments, but I mean, there's certainly one, you know, if you've read my document on on Dropbox that there's somebody who submitted something to Paul Jaminet's blog um who did who did exactly that, who gave himself T3 and saw his cholesterol come down quite a lot. Now, I wouldn't recommend that people emulate that. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Well, and again, this isn't advisable. And this wouldn't necessarily counter the model, of course, because again, if if it does turn out that I'm right in that the reason for the higher LDL is really that further upstream there's actually less lipolysis turnover, uh then I think that that's a factor. So, so real quick, I'm going to I'll go ahead. So, could I So, if I could just finish that point, if the issue is that you you've got low T3 because you're under-eating, over-training, you've got too lean, then you need to address that issue, not just taking a bunch of T3. So, there's a member of the Facebook group who um you know, has mentioned that she suffered from eating disorders in the past and she got down very lean to a level of body fat that that she realized was unhealthy. And at that time her she was doing one meal a day, and her cholesterol or her LDL went up to 800, which is phenomenally high. And then when she realized that she she wasn't an unhealthy weight, and she decided to consciously make an effort to put on some weight to come back to a healthier weight. She didn't even change her diet very much. I understand she went from OMAD to two MADs. She had one meal carnivore, one meal keto. So not really changing macronutrients that much. But by making a conscious effort to eat more food, to gain some weight, to come back to a healthy weight, where she felt stronger, that that was enough to bring her cholesterol right down from sort of LDL of 800 to an LDL of around 140. So that really epitomizes, I think, the fact that if your your problem is that you are under-eating, over-training, and and too lean, then the solution to that is not to start taking T3. The solution to that is to start eating more and and and getting to a healthy weight. So a couple things for the viewer, if you didn't already know what we're saying by OMAD, that's one meal a day. Two MADs is two meals a day. To be fair, the the person who I think you're talking about, they have since actually submitted one more cholesterol test just recently, and their cholesterol has been back up again. So what what happened not to 800? Of course not, right. And that's So but again, this this exemplifies the model somewhat, in that if you're whether or not it turns out that it's too much calorie restriction or not, that was the leanest she had ever been. But so it it it validates your model, and it validates mine, but obviously Exactly, right right. So so in that in that But but my but my main concern there is if she you know, as as and I've seen this happen on the Facebook group. If people go on to the Facebook group and say, you know, I I've got these sky-high cholesterol numbers and my triglycerides low and my HDL is really high. And everybody goes, "Yeah, that's brilliant. Well done. You're going to live forever." And nobody highlights that there can be, as as you've pointed out, good reasons and bad reasons for your cholesterol being high. You know, and and one of the bad reasons that I really think we need to be talking about more is the fact that you may your your hormones may be out of whack because you're not eating enough. You're you're too lean. And I I don't know if you remember I did a quick survey in the Facebook group at one point, asking women how their menstrual cycles had changed since they'd become lean mass hyper-responder. And it was roughly a third of women had seen their menstrual cycles either stop or become very irregular. And that's a real concern. And it it's something which I really feel strongly about. I'm actually curious on that one. How many people responded overall? I'd have to look at the numbers. Probably about 80 people overall, but I mean that's really off the top of my head. I I can look it up. be very that I'm very interested in. If there were so what, roughly 25 to 30 you're saying would would have lost their menstrual cycle? it up quickly. It probably won't take me long if you're interested. Cuz it cuz it I will say this up front. Like as as far as whatever diet you're on, if you're a female and you observe that your menstrual cycle has disappeared, I'd consider that very concerning. Um whatever the situation. Yeah, it's it it's a red flag. And you know, I think that that's why I do you know, I'm I'm probably getting off on a tangent here when perhaps you wanted to go in another direction, but I do feel very very strongly about it because I do think that that is something that is just not talked about enough. And obviously, we tend to all be focused about um you know, fatty liver and obesity and diabetes and you know, that end of the spectrum. And I think we we can lose sight of the fact that um you know, there there there is definitely a concern at the other end of the spectrum. You can be too lean, you know, you can be too low calorie um particularly Um okay, I've got the um survey up. No, it's it's not as many as I said, we've got 20 saying periods haven't changed. We've got 16 saying periods have stopped or become very infrequent, less than one every three months. Um and then six people saying they were infrequent and have now become more regular. Um oh, and sort of there's an an extra person who said they're more infrequent, but presumably not less than one every three months. So, not not not not the biggest sample, but you know Yeah. significant. Well, and for what it's worth, I mean, as with the xanthomas, it's it's something that if it's a it's a measure of concern, it's something I would and so I may actually boost yours. I may actually set up my own and see if I can get a lot more people that would chime in cuz I like a good sample. The one The one downside, and this is really with any Facebook group, is that thing that you're putting in front of them is going to have potential self-selection bias. That's a subject that they're interested in, so that's something that they're going to chime in on, right? Um the other problem is is you want to, as best as you can, you can't really pull this off very easily, is try to keep somebody from having an opinion by the way that you state it so that they're really answering honestly and not in a way that they think would be uh you know, looked at favorably in the group. One downside with a lot of these Facebook polls that kind of sucks is that it identifies you in the poll, um but I think maybe there's a setting you can do to change that. Anyway, I'll I'll look into that. Uh but I'm I'm definitely interested in that, but to your point, to your point, I certainly think that you can be too lean. I certainly think that um there are signs that you are too lean. I think that's one of the signs. Uh certainly there are many other things that, um, can appear in and particularly in the blood work, which is why I love blood work so much. Uh, but it's again something that I think is worth keeping a close eye on. Uh, okay. So, I found the chart, which I'm going to share the screen now. Um, and I give, uh, some credit to, um, oh my goodness, I'm forgetting his name right now, but he's the one who turned me on to this study. But this is from fatty acid metabolism and adipose tissue, muscle, and liver in health and disease. And I have some graphics that are overlaid that are my graphics, but basically what this was, you know, actually let me even see if I can, uh, hopefully I don't lose the stream if I do this. No, I'm afraid to do it. I was going to go into presentation mode cuz then it would clear this away, but pretend my overlaid graphics aren't here. Basically what we're seeing here is in this table, you're seeing what the input is. And then you're seeing in these columns adipose tissue, and liver. And in adipose tissue, it they're they're tracking and I believe this was a tracer study in which they observed that lipoprotein-based triglycerides are repleting the adipose tissue at around 45 g a day. And the non-esterified fatty acids, they're getting about 5 g a day. This is in adipose tissue, right? So, Is Is that that's presumably including chylomicrons? Correct. Lipoprotein-based triglyceride. So, any triglyceride coming from a lipoprotein. Yeah. Whereas conversely with skeletal muscle at rest, the non-esterified fatty acids, which of course are going to be predominantly released via adipose tissue, are around 20 g per day. Whereas triglycerides coming off of lipoprotein are going to be around 10 g a day. So, about a third of their of their energy provided from fatty acids are going to be from lipoproteins. Now, what I'm positing is that and you know what I think I even had this on another graph, I do. That you can almost think of this as a global distribution versus local distribution. I have a whole animation there, but I think yeah. So, for example, VLDL is like the global distributor. And much of its distribution is going to be in adipose tissue, which is good cuz it's the local distributor. It's it's connecting these non-esterified fatty acids especially to nearby or adjacent cells. But not entirely, but but a very large amount of nearby cells are going to be getting their non-esterified fatty acids from nearby adipose tissue. And to some degree, they're going to transmigrate into adipocytes where they'll get re-esterified and then re-released again, right? And it's and it's understandable why from a distance, if you're not thinking about it as a redistribution as an energy redistribution scheme, it could look totally futile. Like it could just look like a big mess of stuff going out, getting redeposited, going back out again. It just looks like a lot of effort for no particularly good reason, right? But because that scheme is set up the way that it is, there doesn't have to be a more complex process in how it can shuttle energy to the correct target tissues. And this again brings it back to the buffet analogy because in the buffet analogy, there could be a few tables that are really hungry. And the rest of the tables are pretty full. They don't really even need anything and it's okay cuz you don't need to know where those tables are. You just need to be sure you keep stocking that buffet. As long as you keep stocking that buffet line, then those really hungry tables will take care of themselves. That's up to them. They determine what their affinity is and to bring it back to cells, what level they're going to express the receptors and act upon you know, taking up more of their energy. Whereas again the adipocytes can almost think of as part of the trays in that very long buffet line if that makes sense. Does it Am I articulating this pretty well? Yeah, I mean I I I I think I understand your you know your point. I I think what I would say is so that that chart that you put up about where different places get their fuels from you know that seems about right especially for you know somebody who's having three square meals a day and again the distribution network makes sense in that context because you want to store food for meals and release it after meals. So yes your adipocytes are going to take up all of the you know your chylomicron you know fatty acids from there. And then in between meals they're going to release them. But to me it seems pretty clear that that's you know that that is a regulation where as one goes up one goes down. It's it shows in your table that sort of you know up taken to you know lipolysis is increased by fasting. I can't remember the exact you know you know things I think I think it had adipocytes you know repleting during the fed fed state and you know so to me it's it it's a system that works very well. Um it it's a storage system and a release system but when the body needs energy when the skeletal muscles need energy typically the body's response is melt down your assets. So lipolysis happens you get a bloodstream full of free fatty acids you get glucose pumped in the bloodstream. This is what happens when you do intense exercise right? Yeah. But that that's that's the buffet. The buffet is your free fatty acids. That's what skeletal muscle is taking up. You know as well as glucose as well as ketones and you know depending on what state you're in but the the idea that adipocytes are being replenished at a time when you're fasting, that to me doesn't make any sense. And it's runs counter to what I've seen generally in terms of the regulation of these things. Yeah, again, and and just with extra emphasis, I do believe that proportionality shifts more towards non-adipocytes. But do I think that they're repleting adipocytes as well? Yes, I do. It's just that there's there's affinity differentials, right? I mean, given that nothing goes to zero, you know, I wouldn't like to say that definitely not like this. Definitely no uptake in adipocytes. There there will be, but it's going to be very very minuscule. Uh I And again, if you Well, again, we're not going to prove it either way until we get to the end. we're until we have our tracer study with lean mass high responders, which for what it's worth, I think there's there's I may be privy to some information that there might be something in the works on that. We'll see. Exciting. Um but regardless, it's absolutely true. Until we can actually see this turnover in action, and I mean, turnover with the VLDL's, turnover with the adipocytes specifically, and I mean, it's super hard to do, but if we could actually see in vivo the triglyceride secretion rate, you know, how much how much triglycerides on board these VLDL's are getting uh secreted, because it's the one place where a lot of people uh disagree with me, including inside the low-carb world, is they they they can't conceive of the idea that there's faster so much faster turnover, uh which for me, all the evidence is pointing to that. I mean, one of my favorite ones came from Volkan I think, which is that they show uh a lot of these fat-adapted athletes have higher glycerol free glycerol levels in their blood, which to me shows greater de-esterification that's happening at a higher rate with these triglycerides. Their their glycerol backbone is coming free. So, anyway, I mean, you wouldn't I mean, that wouldn't be different under both of those set of hypotheses, because both of us are saying there's a large amount of lipolysis going on which which would result in But it let me let me do this. I'm going to take you over to a study which I think is kind of relevant which comes back to hypothyroidism. And I think may help to get us to a divide of sorts or a greater distinction. So naturally I was very interested myself. I checked out I was trying to look for reviews. So for example, effects of thyroid dysfunction on lipid profile was a pretty decent one. 2011 it looks like. Um and in here it says, "So thyroid function regulates a wide variety of metabolic parameters. Thyroid function significantly affects lipoprotein metabolism as well as some cardiovascular disease risk factors thus influencing overall cardio CDV risk." Indeed, even with normal range of thyroid stimulating hormone values, a linear increase in total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, and triglycerides, and a linear decrease in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels has been observed with increasing TSH. And and actually this is again getting back to the problem with looking at um sick populations versus healthy ones. Of the ones I've been able to find to this point that do detail the full lipid panel, hypothyroidism in a pathological state was usually coupled with lower HDL and higher triglycerides. Which wouldn't surprise me too much if indeed it's pathological to the extent that it's activating more lipolysis than the body is turning over. And therefore you end up with more residence time for the triglycerides and these triglyceride rich lipoproteins. Does that make sense? So yeah, so the first point I'd make is the under the the thyroid hypothesis, if you like, the the cause of high LDL in the blood is a down regulation of uh liver receptors, you know, particularly for LDL, potentially other cells as well, because if cells aren't multiplying, they're not dividing, they don't need as much cholesterol, so there'll be less uh cellular cholesterol uptake. So, that that's just sort of the the the context that I'm thinking about it in. On the point about sort of what happens to um triglycerides and HDL in hypothyroidism, yeah, the literature's quite mixed. Some studies with So, with HDL, some studies show an elevation, some show decrease, some show it's about about the same. Um I can certainly say with my husband, he you know, he had high HDL, you know, it was 1.9, 2.something, 1.8, you know, it was definitely high. Um I suspect that there is an interaction here again with the fact that these people are on a low-carb diet um that seems to make the the the HDL go to the higher side and the the the triglycerides. And again, my my husband's triglycerides were low. I'll give you his triglycerides. So, triglycerides That is an important clue to try to differentiate. I mean, it it's it's So, it could well be. It could well be, but I don't think So, my husband's triglycerides were 50 in in your terms when when he was sort of when his HDL was at its highest. So, um so, pretty low. Um I I I think just based on what I've seen um in my husband and and and others, I I suspect that there there is an interaction there um whereby if you're low-carb and slightly hypothyroid, your your triglycerides are fairly low and your HDL is fairly likely to be high. However, you're right, they could be. So, obviously, we we get a lot of people in the Leaky Gut Syndrome group who say everything's great except my triglycerides are too high. Um and it could well be that for some of them, it is a case that their thyroid isn't doing what it should, and then that could be a clue um that their triglycerides are too high, but yeah, our high triglyceride um patient, right? Like we about Cut out the coffee. Yeah, well, it's I want to say about roughly I want to say about 50 to 60% of the time it's an unfasted test. Uh you know, you've probably seen it a million times coming into the group where SOMEBODY'S LIKE, "AH, I DON'T UNDERSTAND MY TRIGS ARE LIKE 250." And it's like, "Well, was it fasted?" "No, no, the doctor I was visiting the doctor. He said, 'We'll just do the test right here.'" And well, did you eat? "Oh, yeah, 3 hours earlier I had a whole bunch of bacon and eggs with lots of butter." And it's like, "Okay, well, you installed those triglycerides into chylomicrons into your bloodstream, right?" Um and then, of course, yes, there's the coffee sensitivity, which was kind of exciting when we were coming into that uh that discovery last year. Uh that unfortunately or maybe not unfortunately. I I should emphasize we don't know for for we don't know yet whether or not it's actually problematic, but there seems to be some people, especially on very low carb, especially like carnivore, who will find that coffee brings up their triglycerides. And usually it's a more nominal amount. It's not usually in say the you know, 250, 300 range. It's more like I don't know, like 150, 200, or something like that. But who it turns out if they remove coffee, then their trigs end up looking a lot more like a typical lean mass hyper-responder. Uh but there are there is a small fraction of some people who would look a little bit more like a lean mass hyper-responder if their trigs could come down and they seem to have a problem bringing it. It's just it tends to be a pretty small amount. Usually if your HDL is high, your trigs are low. And typically this kind of comes back to the model. It's because there's pro- we we believe there's more catabolism of VLDL's is to the reason why your HDL is higher. Um so when somebody's HDL is high and their trigs are high, we assume it's one of those two, the non-fasted test or the coffee. If their trigs are high and their HDL is low, usually I feel like there is more to it. They may have more carb creep or they may be having a lot of you know, liquid or refined forms of fat, so they feel like they can consume as much fat as they want and it's not really going to turn out to be the case for many of them. Um so that's that's the challenge is trying to isolate down exactly what the root cause of that is, but most people end up finding the group and again this is a self-selection issue. But most people end up finding the group really already were kind of close cut points. We try to keep an eye out for anybody who has very wonky completely different uh levels that um are otherwise fitting the visual description, you know, the lifestyle description we're used to seeing with lean mass hyper responders, but that's part of why I kind of may have this and maybe misplaced confidence that if I could go down the road to a gym full of people who are lean and athletic and put them on the diet I control, which of course would be typically very carnivore, I really do think probably 75 to 80% of them would be borderline to fully lean mass hyper responders. Uh but don't know for sure until not until I get the funding to run that kind of an experiment. So as you say triglycerides and HDL tend tend to move together. Obviously there can be many exceptions to that. And my understanding of that is basically if you have a lot of triglyceride on VLDL's hanging out in the bloodstream, sort of HDL basically kind of steps in to try and start passing that triglyceride off to elsewhere and sort of I'm probably paraphrasing this ghastly here cuz your your lipid metabolism knowledge is better than mine, but sort of HDL kind of get used up in the process and so you end up with, you know, if you got a lot of triglycerides hanging around for too long, you tend to get low HDL. And the reason why I think that in the hypothyroid condition it may be different on low carb to non-low carb is under my understanding in a low carb diet you're going to have very little VLDL. So, provided you're at a stage sort of if you've been fasted long enough, your liver production of VLDL is going to be pretty low and therefore your body isn't going to need to clear so much triglyceride out of the blood. So, the fact that the thyroid function may impact on lipoprotein lipase, which is one of the hormones that that does that, is going to be less important and so you you may still end up with quite low triglycerides. Um and subsequently the HDL moves in in concert. Um on a high carb diet, obviously if you got overload carbs going to your liver, your liver upregulates VLDL production and de novo lipogenesis, you end up with a lot more VLDL um sort of in your system. Um and so maybe you know you you end up with a higher burden of triglycerides that you need to clear. I think in both those contexts, it really depends on how metabolically healthy you are. It will. And how much you are or are not in energy surplus. So, Exactly. So, the the bottom line is you may be, you know, um I think somebody who's a high carber but they're very athletic probably isn't secreting that many VLDLs because generally speaking they're not maxing out their glycogen stores to, you know, the extent that it's going to create more de novo lipogenesis, right? Uh but getting back to what you were just saying before, I think the the probably the real easy CliffsNotes to why I think the HDL and triglycerides kind of counterbalance each other. First of all, it's almost invariably in a metabolically healthy context where they where they will tend to be more, let's say, uh responsive. Their their levels will be very responsive to like changes in the diet. Those people are a little bit further down the road of uh metabolic dysregulation. Their lipid levels, in my opinion of what I've seen thus far, their lipid levels are less mutable by diet because I think that they are in much more of a pathological state that's impacting their lipid levels more than what their diet does relatively speaking. Again, that's also analog, right? But the um the key is if you're metabolically healthy, then how much you are reliant on those fatty acids as part of your trafficking system is going to impact the VLDL secretion and then potentially the downstream level of LDL assuming again you're not in energy surplus, which I think kind of jives with um what you may be speculating as well. The only thing that we're both pontificating is at what point are any number of the people who are in the lean mass hyper responder group in a bad way for either being, you know, for under eating or for any other things that might have uh a pathological outcome. In which case, you know, I'm interested in any way that we can help to identify that. Um you you mentioned earlier, for example, losing your cycle. Obviously, we also look for things like chronic inflammation. But if there is something that can be gleaned from, you know, thyroid levels, that would be of interest to me. Although, I don't know about the low T3. And you have been inquiring on some other um you have been inquiring on some other markers that you think might help further gain information on this. Did you have any other markers you wanted to share that you were that were of interest to you? Yeah, so I mean a couple of the markers are quite significant interest to me. They're tricky because they're expensive to measure. So um a couple of things I'm particularly interested in is leptin and IGF-1, both of which are quite expensive. Um but the person Every time. Great. You might you might be interested in my data, by the way. I would be very interested in your data. I ran I did You know what? I may even have that ready for you cuz I think in preparation for this um I Yeah, I did. I actually generated my own graph. And I'm going to it as we speak. Yep, there we go. Uh now your prediction would be that my LDL-C would correlate with my IGF-1 given the graph you have here, right? Let me see if I can Yeah, that's the the general prediction. IGF-1 is quite a tricky um thing for another reason, which is that it has six different binding proteins that can all affect it sort of uh actual effect in the body. So you've got IGF binding protein 1 2 3 4 5 and 6. There might be more, but I'm aware of six. Um so I have seen some studies where I think some of the binding proteins correlate um better, but yeah, this is you know, and this sort of correlates with kind of the the general theory of are we seeing a lack of anabolic signaling in some way? So that would make sense if uh sort of the lack of cholesterol uptake into cells uh leaves more in the bloodstream, and that would correlate Well, you're in luck. I have, I believe, 79 IGF-1s to match my cholesterol because I'm an obsessive I'm an obsessive blood draw guy. Uh and this, by the way, goes over several different types of experiments. In fact, uh I think I also have the weight gain weight loss experiment as part of it. So are you ready? We're about to scroll down to it. I'm ready. This is my IGF-1 versus LDL-C. This is just in a graph one into the other, and this isn't a scatter plot, which no question, it doesn't correlate. Um Not much in there, is there? Yeah, it was interesting to peek at. Um for what it's worth, I believe it's this one. For what it's worth, I think the highest that I'd ever had my IGF-1 Yeah, 2 or maybe it was the 241. Might be the 241. Uh was when I was doing the white bread and processed meat experiment. It spiked my IGF 1 like crazy at one of the midpoint tests. Um maybe the latest test that I had taken. Not completing the 7 days, but the one that I had access to a lab core and then had it taken. So, the one in which I had had the most white bread relative to the other tests. And um that I will concede that did kind of surprise me a little bit. I wasn't expecting it to be so high. But, it was somewhere in the two I think it was this 241. That's what I'm going to guess. Um but yeah, I don't don't seem to have a lot of correlation between LDLC and IGF 1. But, uh I will say that you had me wondering about getting other thyroid tests. And I have added I don't know if I'm going to have this for every test, but I'm going to try to occasionally get reverse T3. Um I know we've been able to skip over it up until this point for but for the general audience, again, there's a big hierarchy, if you will, of like a waterfall effect of going from the hypothalamus all the way down to what results in, you know, T4 is you could kind of say a precursor to T3, but technically two flavors of T3. One is uh active T3, one is reverse T3. And and um uh I think you already know this, but it's it's kind of fascinating. I believe T4 has four different links to iodine. It's either iodine or it's iodine. That's why iodine is so important for thyroid function. And what happens is I believe uh T4 gets converted to either T3, which cleaves off one of those, and that's why it's T3. It's three of those bonds. And reverse T3 is just it's also cleaving off one of those bonds, but it's a different bond. And this T3 is active and and actually acts. And the reverse T3 is inactive. It's an inactive protein. So, that's what's cool about chemistry. It's just kind of like, "Oh, well, I'm actually going to change this to where basically this will have no effect and all I do is just, you know, cleave this other bond." So, it's it's really fascinating stuff. Uh but, reverse T3 is good in that you're seeing now both forms of the outcome. You're seeing both sides of the ledger, if you will. Did I Did I say that right or Do you Do you want to correct me on any of that? No, I mean that that that's basically um yeah, reverse T3 sort of antagonizes T3 um function. Um and yeah, will often be up-regulated when T3 is down-regulated, although not always. And there's definitely some nuances there that I have not quite figured out yet. Um I mean, there's many nuances to thyroid metabolism. So, yeah, I mean, reverse T3 is is definitely again expensive and and and rather labile during the day, I believe, which can make it a bit tricky. So, you you might just want to check how much sort of variation there is on it, you know, just in general. Um but, probably the ones that I'd be more interested in is is just total T3, which probably moves more, and then free T3, uh which probably moves less. Um and then I I think the other thing that's important to remember about um thyroid metabolism is that there were you know, circulating levels of these hormones. But then, um there's also quite a bit of So, that conversion from T4 to T3 happens uh often in in uh in peripheral tissues. So, you have sort of in within the cells that that T4 can get um converted to T3 to have a specific effect in the cells. And Local control. Local control. And it's entirely possible that the effect of T3 particularly in states you know of um particularly in some of the more interesting states that we might consider maybe quite different in different tissues. So for example you've got T3 and brown adipose tissue and the conversion to T3 and brown adipose tissue is stimulated by cold as it would be because you want your brown adipose tissue to burn lots of energy and make lots of heat. Um and then you're going to have a a different sort of action of T3 in skeletal tissue and in liver tissue. And the liver appears to be mostly responsible for the plasma levels of T3 which is what makes the liver such an interesting I mean the liver is interesting in its own way but that what makes the liver so interesting when particularly when we're considering these states of low T3 such as fasting or ketogenic diet. But that would again meet kind of with my expectation. I mean it really is sort of the central server if you will for the energy metabolism and and necessarily so. It has to work with all this apportionment data. But thank you so much. Did you have any additional thoughts that you wanted to share? Yeah so just the in terms of the other things that I watch I I have particular interest in mean corpuscular volume MCV. So this is another thing that we tend to see mildly elevated in in mostly mass eye responders. And when I say mildly elevated it's probably not out of the labs normal range but definitely in the 90s for most people. Some people over 100 and that that's quite curious to me because you know Now is that in a is that in a CMP a complete blood count or comprehensive metabolic panel? That would be a CBC you call it a complete blood blood count? Yes. Um so yeah so I have particular interest in that and and I wonder so you know, we have to look quite carefully for these downstream effects. Um you know, because that's what we're really interested in. And even with uh low T3 syndrome in general, um there's uh there's a question mark over whether there is tissue hypothyroidism. Probably most people agree that there is, but again, there may be tissue hypothyroidism in some tissues and and not others. Um and so, it is interesting to see what can what can we glean from the other markers that we're seeing? Um and so, collect What is follistatin? Um MCV, I think is another. Potentially things like again, not necessarily linked to to to T3, but potentially that leptin, uh you know, insulin, IGF-1, general anabolic signaling. But as I red blood cells seem to decrease. Um you know, so so there's a Red blood cells and not white blood cells? Yeah, white blood cells seem to decrease as well, but I I don't know. I you know, I haven't really bothered looking into that as much as the red blood cells. So, I don't know, you know, I mean, yeah, it makes sense if you've got Oh, the other thing is RDW tends to increase slightly. Um not universally, but it does seem to be the case. Um and again, when you look into RDW distribution width, I believe. one. Yeah. Yeah, you said it tends to increase slightly. Tends to increase slightly. Um and there's there can be many reasons for that. So again, not a specific marker, but again, interesting because red cell distribution width tends to increase when you have red blood cells in the blood hanging around a long time. And that seems to be fairly universally seen in a state where the body is, if I can say, trying to economize, trying to do more with less, trying to keep keep things hanging around for a bit longer, so I don't have to make so many more of them. Um and so, that you know, that's an interesting marker to me as So, I can tell you I can tell you a like a stark challenge I would have to anybody both you know, in my corner of a hypothesis or outside, is originally any study that I look at. The very first thing I'm wondering is are they looking at a at a selection that's in a pathological state or not? Are they looking at a sick population, right? Are they um are they finding a marker that tends to um tends to be part of the court that a cart that follows the horse of bad things, right? So a good example is one of the things that you had a link on was that low T3 can associate with higher oxidative stress. And that would make perfect sense to me in regards to we know part of the uh potential immune response along with oxidative stress is greater cytokine signaling which can result in higher um VLDL production. And can, you know, that's another reason why you could have higher, for example, LDL for a bad reason. But typically that also correlates with the higher triglycerides and lower HDL, right? And so the and this is this is why like I want to I want to see where we can see that temporally this came first, now the bad stuff comes after, as opposed to we're seeing this correlation of these things that could be responsive or as a result of the bad stuff. Um and that's that's kind of the challenge. That's that's part of the challenge with a lot of the reference ranges. A lot of the reference ranges have lots of assumptions built in in that regard. Yeah, it certainly is. I think when we're talking about say RDW, for example, there's a huge amount of literature out there that basically shows that the lower your RDW is, the longer you live, the healthier you are. Um I know you've worked a bit with Dr. Tommy Wood and and he's, you know, quite uh you know, knows knows these sorts of things very well. Um so I think yeah, you know, markers can mean different things in different scenarios, that's for sure, but I I there is this tendency in the low-carb world to say, "Oh, well, this marker that means something for all of the rest of the population, it doesn't mean anything for us because we're in a different context." And that might be true. We can't say that it definitely isn't until we've actually done long-term studies on low carbers, but I think it's very which I think it's very uh important not to jump to that conclusion because you could be sort of missing certain things on the way. Um likewise with low leptin. So, the lady that we were speaking about earlier who was sort of underweight, her leptin level was rock bottom. It was below the reference range even for people with a BMI of 12. Um which I thought was really, really interesting. And one of the question marks that I've sort of had is whether people who have previously been obese, which is going to be a lot of people who found a low carb way of eating, are people who have previously been overweight or obese, have lost a lot of weight. And those people are going to have a lot of relatively empty fat cells and potentially be relatively leptin deficient. And then leptin uh release seems to be again lower on low carb diets. And we know that leptin is responsible for some of these hormonal changes that we see when people are under eating or or or or starving. And so, is there a is there a factor there that people who were previously very overweight have lost a lot of weight, they become more vulnerable to seeing these effects because they're relatively leptin deficient. Actually, I really I'm glad you brought that up because leptin is actually now a big part of the paper that we're writing on the energy model. So, so there's a particularly influential paper that I read while I was doing the filming the documentary and it had a lot of amazing stuff that connected the dots on a more systemic level as to and granted, it was a rodent model that they were using, but they were in fact fasting these rodents and they they seeing that indeed once glycogen stores got low enough in the liver and this has been something I've been positing for years, but I didn't know exactly what the pathways might even be, but that at some level, when glycogen stores get low enough with the liver, that it that it would result in greater trafficking of fatty acids because systemically it makes a lot of sense. You know that buffering of the short-term energy supply is now threatened, and you have reason to put more you know, it's a it's the buffet thing, right? You know that there's less there's less to load to load into the buffet for the on-demand in case the the saber-tooth tiger comes around the corner. So, what do you do? You want to replace it with more fatty acids, right? So, what's the triggering mechanism? And I've I've long suspected it's hepatic glucose stores, which gets back to gosh, I want to say it was 2017, my original energy status experiment. You can there's even big blog post and a presentation I did on so forth, but again, couldn't elucidate what the mechanisms were. What they did was they found out with these mice that if you got glycogen stores low enough to where it inhibited glycogenolysis, so there was less that was being supplied what would happen is is that would result in hypoleptinemia. And hypoleptinemia further activate the HPA axis which further resulted in greater lipolysis. In which case, it makes a lot of sense from the energy model standpoint is that that's the dots that need to be connected to bring it back around to why there would be relatively higher levels of lipolysis that's driving this this greater amount of fat trafficking throughout that whole that whole process. And and I think that that's and that's why like this is yet one more thing where I would say, okay, we should make a distinction. Low leptin could be good or bad. What we want to know is is it leptin insufficiency, right? You you use the word deficiency for example, right? Is deficiency suggest that it's that it's path pathological, right? That it's going to be problematic in some fashion. That you would rather have more than not, right? But we don't know that. We don't know that in either direction. We don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing. Yeah, I mean again, you you'd look at the downstream effects, isn't it? And um So that's that's that's that's one of my uh posits is that maybe leptin is one of the controlling factors that may be down regulating people's sex hormones so that they're not seeing their menstrual cycle, um you know, in the same way that they used to. That's down regulating sort of anabolic signaling, uh you know, that that's that's sort of behind a lot of this. That's testable. And Like I I I now speculate that if we tested a whole bunch of lean mass hyper responders, they would have lower levels of leptin. Uh possibly the bottom of the range, the low range. But will that likewise coincide, as you were mentioning, with, for example, females losing their cycle? I'm very interested. I would like to see that. I do think that there's clearly a threshold. The example who you brought up is obviously an example that's kind of a bit more on the power curve of the other end. Um that's that's more an outlier than the norm. But I would be very interested in in those people who, you know, for example, those women who not who not lost their cycle, what are their leptin levels? And, you know, do they show any other signs, negative signs that we can look to? Exactly. So I mean, one of the things that, you know, I would love for you to be, I know you're doing a lot of testing on lean mass hyper responders and, you know, there's definitely a whole bunch of stuff that I I would love to see tested including leptin, including all the hormones, including IGF-1, you know, um including the the T3 and the free T3 and the reverse T3, um including uh DEXA scans for bone density, um you know, Yeah, can we talk about that for a second? You brought that up in your your quantification. You were explaining for example that um Is it that that low T3 can be associated with lower bone density, right? Probably in some studies somewhere. I mean it wouldn't be surprising. But if if if the low T3 is is due to a state of undereating. I mean there's a huge amount of of low and low thyroid relative energy deficiency in sport, you know. And not everybody might get to the point where their bone density is low and it's not something that's probably going to take you know a long time to to manifest in of itself. But it's definitely something we should be concerned about because it you know if my concern is coming from the point of view is you know ketosis and and and catabolic states you know great in the short term. If you're in it for years and years, are are you missing out on something? And again things like IGF-1, there's there's a U curve with with a all cause mortality with cardiovascular disease. You know, so you don't want it too low. You you need some anabolic signaling. You need some insulin signaling to to grow your brain cells, you know, to grow your bones. So you know for all of these things. And so I'd almost want to say insufficient anabolic signaling, right? Like it's the question is is your is your body achieving the goals that that you would mean for it to be able to achieve under normal you know circumstances. If you for example if you're trying to build muscle, of course you want sufficient anabolic signaling. And if whatever diet or circumstance you're dealing with, you're inhibiting that from reaching a goal level that you would expect and it's really causing problems for you, then yeah, then then now we have a pathological state. So it's true. That's absolutely something that's key. I will say this. I do feel pretty confident because I do know a lot of lean mass hyper percent you probably do now as well. DEXA scans are pretty low hanging fruit. They're not like reverse T3. Lots of people get DEXA scans all the time. I would have thought if there was reduction in bone density, that would have popped up on our radar by now. Uh just because that is one of the things that they look to. In fact, it's one of the things usually the DEXA scan people like to uh point out is a special benefit that you get from doing a DEXA scan in particular uh cuz it's it's a big indicator of health. Your your bone density is a big factor as to how well you're doing, especially with nutrient um with with nutrient sufficiency. I mean, it's definitely something that I I'd love to see some data on. As I say, it will be a relatively slow-moving thing. So, you'd ideally want to study people who've been lean mass hyper-something for many years. But, yeah, you know, I know you're doing some some studies and and I would I would love to see that data. I think it it is just worth sort of pointing out that um when you're in a state of relative energy deficiency, you can feel pretty good in the short term sometimes. And and sometimes you'll feel great for a while and then you'll hit a bit of a wall. And sometimes you might think that you're feeling great for ages, but actually you're not perhaps supporting, you know, the the underlying kind of long-term building projects of your body that you need to be. Um and again, Dr. Tommy would be really familiar with this because there's a huge amount of um literature out there on on the phenomenon of relative energy deficiency in sports. Um and you know, it it's really common that people don't realize that they're they're in that state. Is it but nonetheless, it can be happening. linked to, right? Uh RED, relative energy deficiency, because Yeah, so it used to be called the female athlete triad and and they changed the name because A, it's not a triad and B, it's not unique to females. Um but there's a huge amount of of literature out there on it. Um Yeah, that's great. I think again, it's something I think people need to know about. If you're a professional athlete and you've got a coach, they're going to be watching you. They're going to be making sure you're eating enough calories. If you're an amateur athlete, if you're someone that just goes really hard in the gym, uh um and you have one meal a day and that's a carnivore meal, you're probably not getting enough calories. It's an incredibly satiating diet, you know, and and many athletes who are just eating real foods really struggle to get enough calories in cuz it's hard to even eat that much sweet potato. So, It's not just that we talked a little bit earlier about leptin. What is leptin? It's a hormone that's letting you know that you don't need more food, right? So, it's Let Let there's In fact, there's risk with some people far down the road of having, say, leptin resistance, which is something that's also getting closely studied right now. But exactly what you're talking about, if you you can get I know a lot of lean mass hyper responders who can easily achieve one meal a day. And it may not be in their best interest, depending on what their circumstances are. And so, I think that is something that's worth looking to. I think one thing that I really want to laud you for and that I want to emphasize is that I I even mentioned this all the way back on Peter Attia's podcast. It may It may well be that the lean mass hyper responder study just lean mass hyper responders in general are not at risk for cardiovascular disease to the degree that we would have thought or even at all, right? And And our study that I'm doing with Tommy Wood and Spencer Nadolsky hopefully will help us elucidate that. But as I said then on that podcast as I'm saying to you now, that doesn't mean that there may not be a problem with the phenotype that we do want to be looking for. We want to be looking for any and all possible things. There's nothing wrong with gaining more information that we can then share amongst each other to see if we can figure that out. Now, that's our of course, I'm going to be skeptic to you just as I am a skeptic to myself and anybody else who wants to look at it in the best light. Let's get as strong a data as we can. It's the one benefit of having the group, having the Facebook group. I've been so appreciative that there's so much free data sharing amongst each other. And again, I I have to tell you, I'm just I'm so proud of the group for being very data centric. Like I relative to other Facebook groups, I think we're just so science-y and I've really appreciated that because it allows for this kind of exploration into ideas without feeling like a lot of the raw raw bias, you know, can overshadow it or that people are being discouraged from sharing information they may, you know, that may not be tailored to the majority narrative and so forth. So, once again, I appreciate your doing further work in this regard. And as always, I feel like part of being a good scientific community is to to really showcase those people that might have opinions very different than everybody else. Certainly, I can identify with that. It I mean, the Facebook group really is I would say quite unique among Facebook groups. And you know, it is the only place where people really, you know, I mean, we have we have our moments on there. But, you know, there is a diversity of opinions. There are a lot of people on there who who are very intelligent, very science-minded, and and you know, spend their lives like me on PubMed. You know, and and it really does make for an interesting experience. And like you say, there are a lot of ideas being thrown around. And I'm really pleased about that. And you know, I you know, my my biggest feeling is like you say, we we don't quite know everything about this yet. They could be, even with my ideas about this, they could be a group who don't have any of these dysfunctions, who are in optimal health, and just happen to have slightly higher LDL. And the other thing I would probably say is that definitely mildly high LDL probably is is a good thing. But, the very high numbers that we say, I do question whether there's not a dysfunction behind this. But, my main thrust and the thing that I would really hope everybody takes away is that it's worth digging a little deeper. It's worth considering, do you have a thyroid dysfunction? It's worth considering are you eating enough calories? It's worth considering are you stressing your body too much? Are you over-exercising? There's even probably a handful of people that have some sort of underlying slightly unusual maybe pituitary abnormalities, you know, some growth hormone deficiency that's really mild but that means that their IGF-1 levels are going to tank if they go low carb. You know, so so there's probably quite a few things but I I really feel passionately about it because if I I count myself as really lucky in the fact that I caught my husband's thyroid dysfunction because I say I could easily have not and I could have just gone on for years with him having these high cholesterol numbers and me thinking, "Yeah, great. He's a lean mass hyper responder. More more power to him." And and we know that the effects of thyroid dysfunction on cardiovascular disease, you know, it's not good. So, I I would just really urge people to dig a little deeper, see if there's another reason behind the thyroid numbers because it is worth ruling out any anything else that that you could tweak. Um and you know, some of these things I I really wish people would experiment with a little bit more like I would be really fascinated to see how many people doing OMAD switching to three meals a day holding macronutrients the same what what happens to their LDL, you know? I'd love to see that sort of thing. And do you have a a blog that you update or is it just that Google Doc? It's just the Google Doc. It's just that Google Doc. That is where all my Well, we can we can link your Google Doc down below if you'd like and you know I I know it's not very ordered. Yes. Well, you know, the obvious caveat it's definitely a work in progress. You've just kind of gotten into this but that said, again, I appreciate your work in digging deeper. I can't emphasize enough that I want to feel like we have a wide spectrum of voices that everybody can feel like they can talk openly about anything and everything because it's the only way that we get, in my opinion, to the most relevant data is for us to train ourselves to be as open-minded as possible and to keep exploring. You know, I I would say it's it's not just a matter of taking action now and dig deeper. It's a It's a matter of never stopping digging deeper. Like you should always be You should just get in the mode if you take these issues seriously. Let your energy apply to that seriously because as as I do often say, no one will take ownership of your health and well-being like you will. Completely agree. Well, thank you so much, of course, for joining us and again, we'll have some relevant some relevant links down below, but until then, I'm sure I'll see you again in the group. Yep. Nice nice speaking to you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ewc7VvbkTTg (https://youtu.be/ewc7VvbkTTg) ===

great so first things first Oh continue Annalise had actually a bit of a longer longer title for this but I would just generally call this the little bit energy model of work-in-progress and her maybe this working here we go so I'm actually going to be covering quite a lot but I think I structured this pretty well so hopefully it'll maximize to retention I'm not even going to list off all of these because we're about to go into it but this is me and this is kind of a basic bio I'm a senior software engineering business developer I've been architecting software platforms for over three decades and the last startup I partnered in was bought by one of the largest gaming companies in the world so I've done pretty good and this kind of actually set me up to have a decent nest day to do what ended up happening next this is me now I started a ketogenic diet in April of 2015 and I have to say for the first seven amazing months I felt better than ever and then I got some cholesterol numbers I was not happy to see my total cholesterol had actually jumped to 329 and this really kind of put me in a little bit of a state of depression but I was very happy with the ketogenic diet so I started studying everything that I could find on cholesterol and lipids system this is typically collectively known as lipid ology what I found was actually a pretty familiar pattern just a software engineer particularly a systems engineer I tend to work on networks and indeed that's what the lipid system presented to for me I mean I'm going to be talking about a lot of the different aspects of this but let's just say that there are many things that emulate for example having headers or having packets many ways in which these objects talk to each other and form like cloud ops things that I've already worked with quite a bit already and so I threw myself into what I think a lot of people would call bio hacking but I would refer to as citizen science I started taking all kinds of measurements to I think a lot of my friends would say an obsessive degree in fact a good example is that I actually photograph every single thing I ingest when I stay I photograph everything I ingest I mean not just food and specialty beverages but I mean also water supplements even gum if it's anything that could have any impact on my markers it's something that I'm going to capture actually look this morning and I think I have 47,000 photographs in the four and a half years since I started and this by the way is matched with this is not hyperbole 126 blood tests in the last 55 months and these are actual blood draws as in I went to LabCorp actually got them drawn and they all include an advanced lipid test known as a nuclear magnetic resonance test and that becomes very relevant in the research you're about to see so this is really kind of what got me started I call it the inversion pattern and here's sort of the story behind it see those first eight blood draws that actually happened over for three months time so we're talking November 2015 to around the beginning of February and what you'll see here is a graph where it's a three-day average of dietary fat versus LDL cholesterol and this is a relative comparison so on the left side these are grams of fat and when I say relative comparison you see that doesn't start at zero and this is against on the right side LDL cholesterol blue so what I noticed was my LDL see going up and down like this actually because I was already tracking my food so closely actually lined up inversely with my 3 day average of dietary fat which you see in this dashed orange line and that got me pretty excited to consider trying an experiment so I colloquially call this the week of needles because for one week I quite literally had my blood drawn every single day and I did it against a pre-planned food this this basically was eating the food to try to induce this particular pattern first having low amounts of fat and then having higher amounts of fat to see if I would get a likewise reflection in my LDL cholesterol and that actually just would happen and then of course for a data fifteen I decided what the heck let's step on the gas let's actually see if I could bring my dietary fat way up to see if it would bring down my LDL cholesterol and that too is what happened it actually brought it way down I'm not going to go through all the experiments since then but at least in a ketogenic context these are all 29 of my first blood draws in that context and as you can see this inverse pattern continues in fact to make it a little more pronounced I'm going to flip this left axes over here and you can actually see now that its flipped just how tight this inverse correlation actually is the Pearson is negative 0.8 and regression is point six four eight it's really remarkably tight if you want to see the scatter plot looks like this this will also be in the slide deck I call this the dietary fat inversion for LDL cholesterol and indeed the resulting ldl-c tends to be very predictive against the last three days that I was eating beforehand and in particular the dietary fat so to go back to my graph for a sec and to still keep this inverse what I'm saying is each of these couplings basically could be looked at this way I'm recording this on the morning of a Friday so to give you a real world example if this is Friday what I would do is I would look back to the day before which was Thursday yesterday the day before that which is Wednesday and the day before that which is Tuesday and those three days together would be highly predictive inversely with what my morning LDL cholesterol test would be and to really kind of drive this point home I mean just looking at those three days and not looking at say day is four and before that that's pretty powerful but on top of that this also applies for LDL particle count low-density lipoprotein or LDL P interestingly though it's with a to date yet I don't have enough time in this lecture to get into my physiology hypothesis on this but in effect if we were to use the same pattern rather than looking at yesterday Thursday and the day before that Wednesday I would start at Tuesday the table or that Monday and the day before that Sunday and I actually had that reconstructed in the next graph only this time this purple line represents LDL P in a relative comparison and at this dashed orange line is the 3d average of dietary fat but with a two day gap so this is what the new reconstruction looks like I'm going to flip this axes again so you can see this inverse tracking and as with the LDL seat grat graphed before it doesn't track perfectly there are some gaps in some places right but it still has a remarkably tight correlation person even a little bit tighter at negative 0.8 one and the regression at six six seven okay so what happened next is I got an experiment going I actually got a number of people to do this with me at a conference and here's how I worked basically I instructed everyone to say hey let's go ahead and be either low calorie low carb high fat all of them were on a low-carb diet we're just straight-up fast for the first three days 11 12 to 14 hour warfare fasting overnight and then we'll do the first two blood tests which is on the morning of July 14th this is in 2017 then everybody can go ahead and eat as much food as they want in fact even better if you could have lots and lots of saturated fat then another 12 to 14 hour water fast for the overnight and a final second morning of blood test and I posted the hypothesis in advance and said following the second phase of the higher dietary fat I predict the resulting LDL cholesterol for the majority of participants will show a decrease when compared to the first here are some photos from the road I'm very happy that pts Diagnostics helped me out with this they both helped us take measurements with their cardio check but also to do lab draws for both LabCorp and quest and this is now a graph that I like to call the broken ladder as in you can see this represents all the different data points for people's LDL cholesterol when they started on Friday 7 14 17 and then this is three days later on Monday 7 17 after the intervention of having a lot of high fat throughout the festival indeed we have 19 of the 22 had a decrease of between 5 and 38 percent of their LDL cholesterol whereas just three had an increase of one to two percent so about an eighty five percent success rate which anecdotally seems to be what we see when people reported in at our website this is also shown here in the average change is ldlc of about minus 16 percent across the board a drop about twenty five point seven milligrams think some audio is going on somebody so you can see here that actually this is reflected in all the different rows in which we've got blue those are that's everybody who saw a drop in the LDL sea while those in tan are where we saw that small increase so consuming a lot of fat while on a low-carb diet and typically results in lower LDL C from baseline I do want to emphasize baseline because like me many of these people had a higher baseline LDL cholesterol but in this short span of time their LDL C would drop why well this is really what got me started it on what I like to call the lipid energy model I'm going to take you through four different parts of the energy model to try to kind of explain not just the inversion pattern but what I think is kind of going on overall with the locard diet the reason in which you might have higher levels of cholesterol being detected so let's go through part one and four but first a disclaimer but many parts of this presentation for the ng model are simplified to provide general concepts many aspects are not covered in depths such as insulin glucagon HPA axis and ketone pathways all of which are relevant to this model I can speak to more the nuances in our Q&A and really I can speak a lot more to that once our paper is out but the point is its presentation of course I've got to simplify a number of things just wanted to give that it just want to put that forward so let's talk about the three macronutrients you hear about all the time which is carbs protein fat and of course you already know that cards to convert to glucose protein candy convertible goes for gluconeogenesis these are all simple molecules that ready to get into the bloodstream and we'd love to talk especially in the ketogenic community about how fat gets converted to kita and why it's called the ketogenic diet but I would argue that's a little bit deceptive because a lot of people feel like a hundred percent of your fat gets turned into ketone bodies the truth is actually fat has many other ways of getting direct delivery to your cells it can be delivered via triglycerides on lipoproteins and also is non-esterified fatty acids but I really want to focus especially now and this pathway in triglycerides coming on to on lipoproteins and to do this we need to kind of go through the lipoprotein lineages obviously this is a boat and I do this for not these savvy biochemical audiences you guys are but basically I'm trying to drive home that's a way to move something that's of course hydrophobic through an aqueous environment which is your bloodstream a chylomicron is one of these lineages it's known for having an april b48 liberal protein that's part of what denotes and it comes from your small intestine because of food you just ate so I eat some food have a lot of fat in it it gets packaged into a chylomicron and it's very bloated with triglycerides just like a little bit of cholesterol which isn't represented here but the main point is these triglycerides are distributed to my peripheral tissues throughout my body and very quickly and I mean in just minutes this becomes a chylomicron remnants and gets quickly absorbed by the liver but this is counterbalance with another lipoprotein which the liver makes it makes vldls which also have a lot of triglycerides and also deliberate dropping off a lot of their triglyceride cargo through my peripheral tissues and I would call this category the energy delivery category now there this isn't the only thing that lipoproteins do they also have a support role and this brings up a very famous supporting lipoprotein known as HDL high density lipoprotein and indeed this one particularly the cholesterol on board is associated is associated with better cardiovascular outcomes now I would also argue that there's another famous lipoprotein which we've all heard about planning LDL also comprises a support role it's a little less than elven but in fact it actually has lots of involvement in the immune response it binds to pathogens it provides alpha tocopherol known as vitamin E it's can be endocytosis by yourselves for constituent components and so forth well let's just for the moment for the sake of argument say that as part of the support role and we put this all together we see that basically we've got one category of energy delivery and across the dotted line support so energy delivery support now one more time energy delivery support and what I'm trying to draw attention to is that there's just one lineage of lipoprotein the April would be 100 lipoprotein that is pulling double-duty vldls are providing energy LDLs are providing a support role most of the lipoproteins are leaving your liver are going to be vldls in iraq 1/2 of those are going to be absorbed as ideals to the liver but another half are going to remain as LDL particles and what I hope this make a lot more sense in this context is when you look at this in the context of time which if we're looking at the be LDL to LDL life cycle we see that vldls they last around say 30 to 60 minutes and as ideals less than 30 minutes this is just representing in pixels what's the rest of this time what does that account for about 2 to 4 days as an LDL particle so put another way about 1 to 2 percent of the stages for the sabo be 100 are going to be as a VLT level or an ideal and if it's not absorbed by the liver the rest of the time 98 to 99 percent of time it's going to be as an LDL I think it's no coincidence that this is roughly a two to four day residence time when in fact you see that that inversion pattern includes about a three-day window so with that in mind let's look again at this but let's go ahead and actually add a an additional column which I'm going to call remaining because again these being simple molecules effectively they don't really have anything remaining like they do say a lipoprotein where if you are trapping in a lot of these VL deals you're going to have a low-density lipoprotein remaining and in fact if you're trafficking a lot of yield deals it makes a lot of sense while you would have a lot of LDL particles remaining so to kind of drive at home I'm going to take it back to this graph with the LDL cholesterol and I'm going to say okay what if I what if I'm in a hypocaloric state on a low-carb diet or I'm just straight-up fasting right well then that means that there's a few incoming chylomicrons there's probably less glycogen stores since I'm going to look her back fat diet therefore necessitates more like pollicis more lipolysis brings those fatty acids into the liver to drive greater VLDL secretion and thus there's more LDLs resulting conversely let's say I'm eating lots and lots and lots of fat lots of incoming chylomicrons and that necessarily means that there's less and less veal alleles that need to be trafficked to provide the energy and thus less LDL is resulting so let's talk about the next part because I want you to think about this from a staging and pacing standpoint of the energy itself now I'm taking this graphic actually from a great paper fatty acid metabolism and adipose tissue muscle and liver and health and disease what's great is they sort of break down the inputs of both of these categories of postition in skeletal muscle in particular which I'm really interested in for example in the input for adipose tissue for you to go to your adipose tissue right now or and you were to say hey how much of the fats have you gotten from triglycerides that were onboard lipoproteins and say about ninety percent forty five grams in a day relative to the five grams I get from me bus non-esterified fatty acids conversely if you look at skeletal muscle it's almost a it's gotten just 10 grams a day from triglycerides onboard liberal proteins it actually gets twice as much from non-esterified fatty acids this is a flip from its neighbor nearby and that's because these non-esterified fatty acids they're mainly coming from adipose tissue and so to kind of drive this home with a an analogy you all know if FedEx you know FedEx has a lot of packages it's getting around to these local facilities and then these local facilities they have smaller vehicles that are delivering these packages out to your homes in the neighborhood we can kind of think of this as the global distribution chain right you can think of this as the local distribution so if we flip this we're looking at vldls and chylomicrons supplying their triglyceride cargo to adipose tissue which helps with local distribution of these non-esterified fatty acids to cells and of course some amount of these are getting really right back into adipocytes so let's take this to the 50,000 foot view let's talk about this between a Fed State and a fasted state so what's happening in the fed State well especially if I'm on a low-carb diet I have a lot of incoming chylomicrons and some residual VLDL ISM were to be doing well of course they're supplying some amount of energy to my muscle tissue to my cardiac tissue to organ tissue etc but on top of that they're reap leading my adipose tissue in bulk now of course eventually I'm gonna get to the fasted State hopefully between panels and overnight we don't want to be in the fed state and definitely and what's happening is of course the insulin is going down the glucagon is going up and now adipose tissue is providing more and more non-esterified fatty acids especially to nearby and adjacent tissues and the LDLs are supplying some degree of direct delivery but the important thing is to remember even in this fasted state we do still need to have vldls we're pleading the adipose tissue it's this is I think I can't emphasize enough that this distinction is very important to understand and this is the wide availability of energy to cells that I consider to be crucial the problem isn't one of total energy the problem is one of energy distribution cells govern their energy status locally with limit in an individual control over the larger process thus it's the role of the body as a governing system to make energy available to cells on demand whenever and wherever it is needed I can't emphasize enough that this is actually a very challenging engineering problem if you think about it your your body is a hundred trillion you know give or take a dozen trillion cells most of them are nucleated and they're expected of energy well the problem is is if you were a diner with a hundred trillion customers you can't just have them order off the menu what's easier to run than a made-to-order diner is a buffet and a buffet is much easier and the reason is is because you don't need to watch the customers you just need to watch the buffet line and that's basically what our blood stream is it's a buffet line of energy and that's a lot easier to solve particularly if you have all of this subcutaneous fat all placed around the body and it's just a matter of constantly making sure that they get refill to proper amount so let's get to three or four which is going to be the merging lipid profiles so naturally you gotta ask what about when you're metabolically inflexible so let's go to back to this top view and let's say that you're kind of stuck in a Fed state and that doesn't necessarily mean that you're just literally eating around the clock that could mean that your body believes it's in a fit state it's for example it says that with hyperinsulinemia well of course we have lots of data that shows that you end up with a lot more the LDLs and you have been something that could be called a maxed out pathological fat threshold someone call it a personal factor s hould and what does this associate with it associates with also an increase in ectopic fat and again this makes sense to me as an engineer because there is one place you really don't want energy part more than in tissues like the liver and the pancreas in the heart where the ectopic fat goes and that's in the bloodstream that's very scarce space so of course it has a hierarchy of affinity you really want to be using your attic posters you want to be using those adipocytes because they're the pros they're great at staging and pacing energy and that's why this could be so associated associated with the Z needs and that's why I comes with a profile that we know pretty well by now known as atherogenic dyslipidemia it's characterized by low HDL cholesterol and high triglycerides along with the preponderance of small dense LDL particles the truth is you could really just look at your HDL cholesterol and your triglycerides and if this is low this is how you probably have a high preponderance of small dense LDL particles and yes it's usually a pretty bad sign and that's why a lot of people go on a low carb diet because oftentimes it can help with that aspect in particular indeed this is highly associated with hyperinsulinemia remnant lipoproteins ectopic fat cardiovascular disease and of course the mother of them all one that I'm very interested in which is all cause mortality but could there be fat adapted flexible metabolic profile well for that I kind of want to bring up the counterpart to average eight dyslipidemia which I regularly call the low carb lipid triad see a lot of people who go on this diet they'll often see their HDL go up that's good they'll see that your triglycerides go down that's good but then and ironically even when they tend to be healthier in general you see their LDL cholesterol go up and that ends up being a big sticking point sometimes humorously call this reverse atherogenic dyslipidemia and sure it's associated with low insulin levels low V LDL and low remnant lipoproteins but will it associate with low ectopic fat low after is ground and cardiovascular disease and low all cause mortality that's the question well before I get to that let me get to the last part of the energy model and this one's a little more esoteric but it comes back to the paddock glycogen stores and it kind of set this up I want to take you through what I called the carb swap experiment and basically this is what I did this was a few years ago I had this Vyasa caloric I was having 3,000 calories a day a thousand calories at 10:00 a.m. 3:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. on what is a meal replacement shake for ketogenic diet it's nutritionally complete and the intent was for me to be able to have something that I could have very tight control over and for which there wasn't a lot of variability for the first three days that's what I ate and then for my intervention I had 500 calories in the form of carbs that came from bread and then a thousand calories the day after it was an isochoric swap so I still kept at 3,000 for both days then for another two days I kept adjust the shakes and then I had to do some traveling so we went to on a 2,300 and then 1,500 calories past that point but it was still ketogenic so this was the only period of time which I wasn't ketogenic so what happened well as you can see my total cholesterol at that time was still at that whopping high level that I told you about at the beginning while on this ketogenic diet 313 326 320 so you can see it's kind of hovering and then you can see on day four and five as I'm adding in these carbs in the morning of we can see that my cholesterol is starting to drop up couldn't get a calculated clean LDL see because if you're under fifty milligrams per deciliter of triglycerides and it's you can't actually calculate it but but then here's what gets interesting I go back to the ketogenic diet and yet my ldlc continues my total cholesterol continues to go down my LDL see the very end ends up at about 131 I believe that this had to do with raising my glycogen stores which fit ultimately results in lowering cholesterol why well some studies and literature suggests that lower relative paddock glycogen stores and due to greater rate of lipolysis and and this could make sense given it will provide greater short-term energy buffering in place of the missing glycogen availability this higher level of lipolysis could lead to greater VLDL secretion and thus more successive LDL particles now I wanted to finish with one more experiment that I did that probably is the most talked about it experiments and with all of the rest of the energy model in mind this will make a lot more sense to you it's called the white bread experiment what you're seeing in front of you is exactly what I was consuming and only what I was consuming it was white bread and lean processed meat along with water and some supplements to you know try to keep to some nutritional completion and yeah I have a whole bunch of pictures that look just like this in fact the reason I chose white bread and lean process to me which one of my friends jokingly called the prison food diet is intentionally because it was low quality food because I didn't want going from a low carb high fat diet to a high carb low fat diet to be a question of whether the food composition was better as in you know if I for example had lots of kale salads and so forth that might be considered that there were other factors involved and I don't think that there are I think it's mainly about the energy substrate and the metabolic pathway that's why I chose this so and having lots of white bread and processed meat what would this do in an overconsumption with my cholesterol levels well on 920 of 18 my LDL was a whopping 296 coming off of a ketogenic diet and starting getting into this experiment where I then flipped over to eating the white bread processed me you can see the day after that it was 233 the day after that 198 then 160 and 147 102 and as predicted in a time-stamped video that I made before I did this it reached the lowest LDL cholesterol I've ever had at 83 83 is this ended up being a drop of about 213 milligrams per deciliter and one week of my LDL cholesterol and while that might not make sense to a lot of people I want to drive this home with what I was talking about before and that indeed instead of being powered by ketones and triglycerides which might leave more remaining LDL PD I was being powered a lot more by carbs and possibly to some extent protein now that's not the full story it's not strictly what the metabolic pathway is obviously there are other factors for example I was becoming hyperinsulinemic therefore I was pinning in a lot more of those fatty acids and reducing lipolysis by over consuming as well as actually repeating my glycogen stores in the liver so while I can make fun graphs like this flip that experiment this was the other graph I made with the triglycerides and HDL you can see the triglycerides precipitously go up till I'm at around 221 on that last day and I reached the record low 38 in my HDL it kept continuing to drop to somewhere I'd never seen it before now I'm seeing carb overeating studies where it showed that there wasn't that much de novo lipogenesis I certainly do think that this 221 reflected at least some amount of de novo lipogenesis with me in particular but you know without a tracer study I can't say that I know for sure so this leads me to talk about the phenotype of a special interest to me and this model called lean mass hyper responders kind rolls off your tongue right and I apologize but there's kind of a history as to why they're named the way that they are so of those going on a low-carb diet you'll see that some will have this dramatic increase in their total and LDL cholesterol and long before I became involved many doctors like Peter attea and Thomas days Fran would call these hyper responders but I started to notice that there was actually a very specific pattern that included the highest total and LDL cholesterol and counter-intuitively they tended to be very lean and athletic we call these lean mass hyper responders to sort of put this in perspective in a visual way if this was a triad typical of those people were hyper responders this is what I see as the triad for lean mass hype responders now very high HDL cholesterol and in very low triglycerides coupled with very very high LDL cholesterol and about three years ago I wrote this article that included this graphic which I'm going to take you through and I posited that cholesterol scores can be higher for those who are lean and or athletic on a low-carb diet and the cut points that I gave all three in combination that this was seen often with people who I observed would have an LDL at 200 or higher an HDL of 80 or higher triglycerides of 70 or lower now all three of these if you look at the literature the all three of these are actually very rare in singularity it's actually very hard to find people who have an LDL that's high and HD find anybody who has an HDL this high triglycerides this low and as I do with this model I posited that perhaps this was lower glycogen stores in combination with lower body fat and also in combination with higher energy demands from being an athletic or active thus lipoproteins may be needed to traffic a greater amount of energy from fat resulting in higher LDL cholesterol markers it's sort of funny even now these days I think of things I wish I could have said differently in one of them's I would have said like energy potential instead of energy from fat but anyway this is the banner from the lean mass hype responder Facebook group so you know how I said how rare it is to even find those markers an individual well this is a group full of people now lots and lots of people these are the these are unicorns because these did not exist in these large data sets from before this point in time before ketogenic diet became a lot more popular and you'd be forgiven if you thought that this was a fitness group it's not a fitness group what brought these people to our group is their lipid numbers and that's why if somebody gave me lipid numbers that looked like an LDL above 200 HDL above 80 and triglycerides below 70 without knowing a single other thing about you I would guess that you're probably very look hard you're probably lean and you're probably at least fit if not atletic and the vast majority of time people commenting a closed-door code goes yeah that's right how did you know that well this is what I would posit is going on but before I do let me tell you what's common for the lean mass type responders they have low cardiovascular risk and having low insulin levels low waist-to-hip ratio you've seen low blood pressure triglycerides low inflammatory markers low Homa IR and of course high HDL cholesterol so what's their high cardiovascular risk marker there's just the one it's a high LDL which of course means high LDL P and a high a bo B in this case so did this exist in the literature before well there already were people who were kind of looking into this including great work from Volek and Finney and in fact the studies from a couple years ago where they studied athletes and they divide them between a high carbon low carb and indeed we see that the low carb athletes the total cholesterol would tend to be higher their LDL see would ubiquitously be higher and as they stay here the observation that highly-trained ultra endurance athletes consuming a very low carbohydrate high fat diet exhibiting a more dramatic and uniform hypercholesterolemia is counterintuitive since high volume exercise tends to lower total and LDL C levels and I can actually speak a little bit more to that in the Q&A but there's an experiment that I did to specifically lower LDL just from exercise while keeping all other else all other things the same so this is what I in the energy model and again this is a hypothesis but it goes like this in a fasted State for these limits hyper responders we have a different situation than what I described above we have lower total adipose mass and because of that we're going to need to traffic more vldls off the existing fatty acids and that by the way also means more VL deals we're pleading and that's okay from a systemic standpoint this is actually something I'm used to with networks all that's really happening is basically a faster version of load balancing but they're both sites are already used to doing this it's again it's what they're pros at doing and it's also it'd be else vldls do if we thought this actually was putting stress on the liver we would expect to see this from her example with higher inflammatory markers like C reactive protein and so forth but we don't we actually see extraordinarily low levels of c-reactive protein and what appears to be at least in the early data to be very strong healthful liver which I find to be very instructive so studies that help to support the energy model I'm picking just a few we actually have something like a couple dozen that we'll be using paper well let me ask each of these questions and provide one study to show you can fasting increased cholesterol yes fasting increases serum total cholesterol LDL cholesterol and able lipoprotein B and healthy amount obese humans and this is a multi-day fast you can see that their total cholesterol goes up their LDL cholesterol goes up their apoB goes up also and high HDL sea levels relate to the LDL triglyceride turnover indeed the concentration of high density lipoproteins it's related to catabolism triglyceride rich lipoprotein so of all places we're getting this from chronic alcoholic users and you may not be able to see this because of the screen capture but they had them drinking first and then actually checked after abstinence to see what their fractional catabolic rate is and it does indeed go down as does their HDL and of all the interesting places to find for lean mass hype responders are there examples of those with very lean mass and lower glycogen stores having higher LDL see we see this with those who have anorexia nervosa so that often times their total their HDL and their LDL cholesterol could be higher now by this point in time if there's not already a queue full of this question this is what on what's on a lot of people's minds which is that swell Dave but what about the risk okay is it high LDL cholesterol always bad and spoiler alert as I say often I don't know in fact there's a particular phrase that I like to say which I don't have in here which is I like to say I'm cautiously optimistic in this context and by saying that I'm acknowledging the level of uncertainty even if I have a leaning so I am sure trying to find out for this context in particular for particularly for the lipid triad one thing I'm a little bit semi-famous for it is this graphic that I've circulated for some period of time because I sought to find any and all studies related to the lipid triad and it's Association cardiovascular disease risk especially in normal non treated people in fact even when so far is to actually have a reward I'm willing to give away for example $1,000 to somebody is a kind of finder's fee if they could find the lipid triad specifically those things that meet this criteria for which we see just even above average cardiovascular disease I'm sorry this link is obscured but you can just google it on my site but I wanted to provide it to you guys because you can all participate that the reward money is still outstanding so there are however studies that do look at this triad that are showing the reverse for example this is from Framingham Offspring and I really like the study because they exclude users of lipid-lowering therapy it was 3,600 men and women what we find is that they stratified between high HDL c and a low hdl-c and unsurprisingly those people had low triglycerides and low LDL cholesterol below 100 actually had the best odds ratio everybody on this chart but what's interesting is you would have thought that if you flipped it and looked at everybody who had know the old 100 or higher that it might be an odds ratio and a 1.3 or 1.4 but it's not 0.7 even if you focus a lot on it being a point one higher the fact that the triglycerides being low in the HDL being high is quite substantial but they even have further one where they looked at LDL at or above a hundred and thirty it's still the same it's an odd ratio is 0.7 now I would have liked a little bit better confidence intervals here and perhaps we'll be able to get more studies as more time goes on because we'll get larger populations I did find this one to be pretty compelling there's also this one a Jefferson study where they looked at a cohort 2,900 men aged 53 to 70 for free of ischemic heart disease at baseline and what I liked is they stratified between an LDL of 170 or lower versus an LDL of one above 170 and then sub stratified within so you can actually see HDL at or above fifty seven triglycerides at or below ninety seven we compare these two they're nearly the same there's only two thirds of a 1% difference and that's pretty powerful I mean you can really see the stepwise fashion on whether or not you've got the HDL and the triglycerides and indeed even on the atherogenic this lipedema group there's hardly any difference at all whether or not you had a high or low LDL it seemed to matter much more what your HDL and your triglyceride levels worth I also just got into this recently this is from the Jackson Hardin Framingham Offspring cohort studies this is a 3d graph it's pretty cool because what they're looking as they're looking at HDL on the x-axis and then on the y-axis they're looking at remnant lipoprotein cholesterol which I can't get into right now but I'll just say it does very closely track which I list right levels and then on the z axis they have coronary heart disease risk so you can see those people with extremely high HDL yet very low remnant lipoprotein cholesterol are at very low levels of coronary heart disease risk and you know who's over here who's over here right now from a profile standpoint or lean mass hyper responders now I'm putting my money where my mouth is we're trying to get together a study and over the last half year we've been able to raise 174,000 toward a study on lean mass high responders I shall give you that list before on how they have low cardiovascular risk markers across the board save LDL so there they're almost like a gift to science in a sense that they're able to illustrate that one marker of interest that we want to know about which is LDL well not well taking out all the other pliat robic confounders so we're going to be capturing CT angiogram x' at the beginning and at the follow-up of one year later along with wide spectrum blood testing and our team includes people of differing expectations for the outcome conflicting hypotheses for the risk level I really love that Spencer natal ski and I disagree and what we think we'll see and we're very public about that and I wish that there were more mixed hypotheses teams taking on a study I think it I think it helps the science a bit more an analyst wanted me to to mention this and I'm kind of glad I never get to put this into a presentation but I'm gonna talk a little bit about my own personal process and ethics and these are sorta three rules that I would love to be able to pass on to really everybody particularly for those practicing citizen science first of all practice transparency above all else all good science is on a science in my opinion and sometimes this means forcing you to be honest with yourself I mean if you're really transparent it's kind of hard to for example get into be hacking right always endeavor to be cordial and respectful if you go through my social media you'll probably see this a lot I try to avoid name-calling and character attacks personal insults even as other people may apply this to you this takes discipline but it is in my opinion a truly worthy goal and lastly always seek productive criticism we're really really fortunate to live in an age of technology that allows peer-to-peer collaboration and debate and and honestly some of the strongest opinions I hold today came from trying to defend my original opposing view and failing sometimes comically and that's it that's my talk thank you guys so much

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: Vu1ivWstIYs (https://youtu.be/Vu1ivWstIYs) ===

greetings everyone a loss I've kind of not chat with you for a little bit I missed week five and six so I'm gonna have to kind of wrap them all together right now since we last chatted I had been bouncing around New Zealand and got to see many great people there I fun fact to know until I actually got sick for the first time in five years at least sick in a bacterial or infectious way and it was not possibly so coincidentally after I had indulged a little bit after coming onto the ship so I was sort of off the wagon with my diet and I don't know maybe I was paying the price for it maybe I wasn't but I'll get a chance to talk about that more in depth later we then ultimately bounced back to Perth and then eventually to Dubai where I got to meet a lot of fantastic folks and got some very interesting stories including them from a doctor who had lots of interesting things to share and then we've since gone here to Europe where actually we spent some time in London got to interview some fantastic folks there went to Wales where I got to interview Zoe harken and just yesterday after coming up here to Antwerp I got to interview Peter Landsberg who is just a fantastic lipid ologist really a lot more happen than I can really quickly share but of course you'll get to see a lot of this in the documentary I hope to get in at least one more update before we wrap up this trip but we're about a week in some days left and this is really the first time since I last Chad with you that kind of get in a day to breathe it's it's just been non-stop but that's a good thing so until then see you next time

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: iU5zKXGYMoY (https://youtu.be/iU5zKXGYMoY) ===

greetings everyone I'm talking to you from the ocean we're actually by boat going from Australia to New Zealand what was I doing in Australia quite a lot actually do we first went to Melbourne where I get to interview the great Kensuke Horace got to cover quite a lot of ground including a lot of biochemistry and then get to interview an amazingly mess up responder who does a lot of Ironman it's really top-level in his class we then went on to Sydney where I got to interview dr. Victoria bunting and she has an amazing personal story as well as a lot of things to share about her practice and then went to dr. Paul Mason's clinic where not only do I get to interview him twice but got to do a series of other interviews there as well really amazing things that are going to be coming out of that just the footage just from Sydney anyway I just I have to say I'm so proud of how much we've gotten to get into the can just in this last week just in week week four Wow yeah we're just about to hit the halfway point so anyway I look forward to chatting with you guys again in another week

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: c8N_Ja335S0 (https://youtu.be/c8N_Ja335S0) ===

greetings everyone I'm talking to you again Anna from Singapore this time with a different backdrop we left went around to a couple other places he came back those places were koala Lumpur and we're we she got to had two back-to-back interviews really fascinating things that we get to talk about a great personal story and also talking to a doctor there in Malaysia and just the different challenges that they have to face there and particularly in the process of bringing the heart to his patients and to his people but also we went to Phuket unfortunately I had to stay on the ship we go a lot of admin work done but Sharon got to see a little bit but the site's over there and then ultimately rounding back here to Singapore we have white and intensive schedule we have a total of five interviews three of which we've already shot one interview on Monday one two interviews back-to-back yesterday which by the way included ironically Richard Morris who doesn't live here in Singapore but just happened to be here and we were able to pick him up and get not only a lot stuff about his personal story but also about biochemistry which is very useful very important for this documentary and then we have back-to-back interviews today including another doctor and somebody was a very powerful personal story it was facing amputation it's it's really gonna be a museum and I was looking for a tune so I look forward to catching you guys again next week

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: yF8-XTAi05M (https://youtu.be/yF8-XTAi05M) ===

greetings everyone I am actually talking to you from the jewel mall in Singapore with the largest indoor waterfall in the world it's actually quite amazing it's a good backdrop all can see what anyway since I last talked to you we may have actually been to Hong Kong where we got to talk to all of them and this amazing story he ended up coming on a Kennington a diet Africa's infant son who has unfortunately diagnosed with epilepsy about the the story that ensues is quite powerful and I I'm really excited to include that in the documentary we then from there went on to Okinawa we're in a later window of time than we wanted just a little bit longer than we thought but all of that said it was fantastic I got to meet with Sean who helps us out quite a bit with the groups and moderating and so forth and I got to enjoy a steak we didn't have any of the Okinawa staples but it was quite incredible really delicious and then from there we ended up coming back to Shanghai way we've got to get back to back interviews with Bianca and her friend who's a chiropractor Bianca is a blogger who had very severe digestive issues and her story of how she ended up going into local diet it's really quite fascinating I really am excited to show that as well but also what happens you have her and requests for all levels as well as the fact is a lot of fun anyway I hope you guys are all having a wonderful week and I'll be seeing you again at the next update

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: wZly-8nvQkU (https://youtu.be/wZly-8nvQkU) ===

as the Locard movement has exploded in popularity a new phenomenon has been rising many who adopted the diet have seen their LDL cholesterol rise substantially we call these folks hyper responders existing guidelines considered LDL cholesterol a serious marker for cardiovascular risk which is why it is often called the bad cholesterol however many of these same low-carb errs see a rise in their HDL cholesterol which is often called the good cholesterol also they typically see a drop in their triglycerides a measure of fat in the blood higher HDL and lower triglycerides are both associated with lower cardiovascular risk given how common this is for the diet we often call these three together the low carb lipid triad high LDL high HDL low triglycerides as it happens many who have the biggest extremes of this triad or generally lean and often fit we call these lean mass hyper responders a cholesterol code were focused a lot on how this could make sense in terms of energy management when one is powered by fat you can find out more cholesterol co.com / model but the biggest question we have is one of risk is this triad healthy or dangerous thus far the few studies that do stratify for the lipid triad show a low risk for cardiovascular disease a recent paper looked at 3590 men and women from the Framingham Heart Study and found the odds ratio was nearly identical between the low and high LDL groups where HDL was high and triglycerides low another paper with nearly 3000 from the Copenhagen males study stratified between those with an LDL of 170 and below versus those above 170 and found their risk was nearly identical when matching high HDL and low triglycerides to be sure this is uncharted territory as it relates to this triad being produced by a particular diet but as it happens many of these lean mass hyper responders are pretty determined to remain in this lifestyle aren't taking any steps to lower their cholesterol which means they could provide unique data we've never had before to date no study has ever had a group of people with high LDL cholesterol combined with every other cardiovascular risk marker at optimal levels such as low blood pressure fasting insulin waist-to-hip ratio and hemoglobin a1c to name just a few yet this is very common among lean mass hyper responders and to give you some perspective while guidelines typically advise one to keep their LDL below 100 milligrams per deciliter lean mass hype responders have their levels in the 200s with some even in the 300s 400s and higher so are they at risk well that's where you come in we're currently raising money to gather data on these folks not just with their blood work but sophisticated measurements such as CT angiogram flow mediated dilatation and carotid intima-media thickness to name just a few we want to gather this data now and again in five years to see if these metrics show any changes in vascular function or markers for risk when compared to a normal healthy population the only other group that naturally has levels of LDL this high are those with the genetic disease known as familial hypercholesterolemia or FH these same tests on those who have FH tend to show a rapid progression of atherosclerosis in a short span of time but will lean mass hype responders show the same outcomes and so far current data from many of these people has looked surprisingly positive overall but it is still anecdotal we need stronger data for greater certainty my name is Dave Feldman and I hypothesized that at a population level this group will surprise us with unremarkable or even lower rates of cardiovascular disease than expected I'm teaming up with great people like dr. Spencer Nadal ski who hypothesizes the opposite that we will indeed see rapid progression either way we want the data to speak for itself and you can help us get there please consider contributing to the lean mass hype responder measurement project at citizen science foundation org and please share this and help spread the word about this groundbreaking project to help us make it a reality it's hard to emphasize just how powerful this data would be if indeed this group did not see a rapid change in these Diagnostics at a population level given just how high their LDL cholesterol is it wouldn't just matter to them it would matter to the low carb movement and certainly the lipid hypothesis itself thank you for watching and thank you for your support

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 2SXiJh5_vtU (https://youtu.be/2SXiJh5_vtU) ===

hi Spencer how you doing today good are you doing buddy all right we're gonna make this short and sweet I have some amazing news first of all you've already been appraised at the fact that we launched the citizen science foundation the citizen science foundation is our vehicle that's primarily centered around this lean mass hyper responder measurement project now for those who do already know a lean mass hype responder is basically what we're calling this specific phenotype that we're observing for those people go on a low-carb diet and see their cholesterol go to super high levels but also they see their so-called good cholesterol HDL cholesterol go up as well as their triglycerides go down even though their LDL cholesterol the so called bad cholesterol has gone way up they're called lean mass high responders because at the time that I had written the article and I was talking about it they tended to appear to be lean mass as opposed to somebody who might be a little more sedentary and overweight and thus far that definition seems to have held so I've got some big news I'm gonna save that to the very end but let's first talk about what it is that you and I were doing originally both you and I were for the for the last year and a half I was trying to get a follow-up study on this phenotype and going through traditional channels I eventually got you to connect with to also try to work a little bit more on the inside and you were trying to do it yourself and how did you do did you get us there it's very it's it's very difficult to get a prospective study on these individuals so no not not yet so yeah basically the gist of it is is the reason for this lean mass type responder measurement project is it is something that is technically not a study at all we're helping these individuals get tests the otherwise could be getting themselves and I think that's very important because I actually think that there are many people who if they could get wide spectrum tests even if it wasn't the diet that brought them to this place if there was disease detected that might be something that they would want to act on and may even go in a different direction and as you know I am all for everybody having as much information as possible but there are some who say who are presumably disease-free at least of everything that they've been able to detect so far and if they went through these tests as we're proposing them were still disease-free and were adamant about not taking any treatment to lower their cholesterol we're saying hey why not go ahead and not only help them get these tests but possibly get the tests again and say five years and have it as a comparison don't you think that sounds like a good idea yeah and I think ethically these patients should subjects patients you know I'd call them patients should be able to have the data to know what's going on in their body if they're harming themselves or not you know I have a lot of patients that are lean mass hyper responders and I give them all of what I see I think it's I think it's a risk you know you're what am i pessimistic you're optimistic in regards to this phenotype and look what patients have autonomy so I think though at the very least we should be able to allow these folks to get the data to to make an informed decision based on on the outcomes if they're going to continue it anyway that's what I think absolutely but even more than that I think that everyone's very interested we're all interested in what the outcomes actually are and yapper what you said I am cautiously optimistic as I would put it particularly when it appears that this is only for metabolic reasons which is to say it's LDL is not high because they're you know downstream of metabolic derangement which we've also seen that version of high LDL and you know obviously I've got a lot of materials on that at cholesterol code calm but likewise you have an article that I asked you to write at cholesterol code that makes the case for those people would have high LDL even if metabolic to consider reasons to be concerned and so this is why I'm actually very glad to be teaming up with you on this because I think that I think it's good for both our heads to be wrapped around not only working out what the best measurements can be but also being able to have something that we could both be influenced by in other words if the data is showing rapidly progressing atherosclerosis I mean I will be the first to turn the website into a big warning for everybody who has this phenotype but likewise you're really one of the only people I know particularly who's a board-certified the lipid ologist who said if it goes the other direction I mean if you don't see rapidly progressing atherosclerosis and a population that has the equivalent of those people who have the genetic disease of familial hypercholesterolemia which we do see be progressive atherosclerosis in that would definitely alter your opinion right yeah I'd say it would definitely set up many more studies and I'd hope a lot of money would be thrown at this because it means that there may be something else about a diet that's protective or like you said in some of your hypotheses I just I think it's fascinating stuff and I really think these folks that are going about this are gonna be pioneering this because it truly diet-induced what I call like a ketogenic diet induced hyperlipidemia has not been studied in long term and no we're not gonna get an outcomes trial any day soon but if we can start collecting data and at least kind of these surrogate markers of atherosclerosis and and not just you know endothelial function like we talked about but more the actual you know CT angiogram and all these other different things I think that's that's that's some compelling data and heck I know it won't happen in over a year or even two years but five however many years we need to follow these individuals absolutely well so I want to go ahead and hit a huge few frequently asked questions certainly there already are a lot of existing lean mass type responders who want to know if they can jump into the study there's one question I think needs to get put forward and answered right away one of them is it doesn't matter if there is any existing disease or for that matter any disease that's detected at baseline and the answer is yes it definitely matters we do want to we want to emphasize that even though this is not a study we do care about the ethics of it quite a bit and so really it's the individual it needs to be disease-free at baseline and themselves being fully aware and working with their doctors the entire time and themselves deciding it's with their choice between them and their doctors determining that indeed they don't want to have cholesterol-lowering medication they don't want to take steps to lower it I can't emphasize enough that not only do you need to be disease-free but on top of it that we're not encouraging anyone to continue being a lean mass hyper responder that's again a choice between them and medical professionals this is strictly a capture of data at baseline and then again in five years if they continue forward in that regard right yeah I mean that's the same thing that I do with my patients yeah hey you informed consent I'd basically give them the the stuff that I put on that blood for your for your website and then they're like hey I I think it's a pretty little risk regardless of what you say and we go okay well I'll just keep my haunted River and you I can't make them do anything so this this gives a way to monitor themselves absolutely another one that we get a lot right now is are we using only u.s. citizens own u.s. is US residents only or do are we accepting those who are international and Spencer and I chat about this a bit the only thing that we the only reason we can't quite give a definitive answer yet is we haven't worked out all of the details either for rules that might be involved and the partners we negotiate with who may be providing the testing and what implications there may be as far as you know any registration or bureaucracy etc but the other part of it is that we don't know if the international travel itself could have any impact on those metrics that are taken this is going to be fairly extensive testing that's happening and I myself don't know for example how much the international travel will impact even things like lipid levels I already have for my own data an example where there does seem to be an anomaly it was when I was coming back from the Philippines it was actually the very first test that I had done and I don't know if it was the travel that actually had that level of impact so unfortunately it is time we can't say either way but Spencer and I for what it's worth we lean towards that we'd like to be able to have people you know from wherever they're at or at least be able to have a larger pool to be choosing from as far as those people who could be involved yep so I'm gonna get just one last question and that's a lot of people are wondering exactly where the testing would take place I am gonna go ahead and go out on a limb and say look don't hold us to this there's a decent chance that of the places we're looking at it'll possibly be in Southern California so regionally speaking that seems to be where Spencer already has a lot of connections already and some of the people that we're talking to it could work out that way but I really don't want to rule out anywhere else in the United States there may be better options better potential for devices or tests or facilities that may also come forward all we know is that it will almost certainly be within the continental United States that's about the only thing that I can say for sure so Spence I've gotta say I'm excited now I get to get to the really really big news you ready yep let's hear it an anonymous donor has come forward and for the month of November I'm recording this on Halloween evening so it's October 31st for the month of November they are going to match contributions up to $25,000 for the entire month of November that's amazing it is amazing look I'm I'm I got a call it like I see it I mean the citizen science community is really stepping up here so I just I really hope anybody who's listening to this right now would consider contributing because every dollar you contribute is worth - and we certainly want to you know take advantage of the generosity of this anonymous donor of course thanks to the anonymous donor but thank you everybody who is going to help us raise this money this is this could put us over the top inside the month of November happy bring the I just threw in 500 bucks I mean I hope other people can do similar one and thank you as well I kicked in a few shingles shekels as you'll probably see pretty soon and it's it's it's it's quite exciting because right now we're already past the quarter mark I want to say word around twelve thousand eight hundred right so now we'll be turbocharged if we can start getting a lot more people to contribute I really hope they'll consider it and let's make this a success let's make this happen right hope so all right Spence I'm so glad you're on board with this and I hope the next time we chat we have a lot more material to discuss that's for sure yeah thanks for involving me I you know I think this is fascinating again I've been seeing this in my patients since I began practicing medicine and I just think it's fascinating so I love it all right great well I hope everyone has a safe and happy Halloween and we'll see you later everyone while finishing up the editing of this video somebody asked a very good question which is is any amount of money going personally to me or to Spencer nadao ski or to Siobhan Huggins or anybody who's involved in the administrative of this and the answer is an emphatic no one 100 percent proceeds are going towards the project and by proceeds I I mean more specifically the only people we would be directly compensating are those who are instrumental making the project happen from a services standpoint such as you know paying the doctors of researchers that operate the devices and so forth basically to to put further emphasis on it we all have either existing jobs or like in the case of Siobhan and I we have patrons and members I mean part of the reason I created the citizen Science Foundation was so they'd be autonomous and not intermingled with anyone's personal finances so once again all contributions 100% of proceeds will be going towards this project

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: n3pRZ9woP1I (https://youtu.be/n3pRZ9woP1I) ===

greetings from San Antonio I'm excited to say we just came from Houston where I got to announce the launch of the citizen science foundation where it's a central endeavour is the lean mass hep responder measurement project and what this is basically is to help those people who are lean mass have responders they tend to have very high LDL cholesterol the so called bad cholesterol high HDL cholesterol the so-called good cholesterol and very low triglycerides help them to get matched up with very advanced testing they could otherwise get on their own through the ordering physician but can be a bit costly we figure the bundle we're looking at is somewhere in the neighborhood of 1,500 to 2,000 and includes like whites from blood tests a CT angiogram see IMT is CAC etc we're still working those details out but at around 2,000 per lean mass hep responder and wanting to get at least 25 we knew that our goal would be something in the neighborhood of around 50,000 at least and I'm excited to say that already we've raised about a quarter of that about 12,500 now make no mistake for everybody who's lean mass hep responder it's it's a choice between themselves and their doctor as to what they would like to do but we know there are many who are choosing to not lower their cholesterol levels and would like to continue on as is and for that we would hope that they would consider getting this kind of testing because it could help them to detect disease they may decide to go another way if that if they don't detect disease and they decide to continue forward then that also potentially sets up an opportunity if they want to get tested again in five years which we'd hope they would so that there would be comparison data and that could set up the opportunity for future studies such as retrospective studies that can be done against this data that was collected so if you haven't yourself checked it out go to citizen science foundation org again citizen science foundation org and you may want to consider helping out the project we could certainly use your support thank you so much for your consideration

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: phfHRZ_aME8 (https://youtu.be/phfHRZ_aME8) ===

All right. Well, I have kind of a special uh special cholesterol science series. This is actually going to be a little bit different because we're going to keep this a little less structured, but I'm very honored to be joined by Dr. Ethan Weiss, who is I understand you are preventative cardiologist. Is that right? I mean, self-proclaimed, yeah. There's no like there's no board or anything. I'm a cardiologist, but I like prevention. Now, what's fascinating is I actually have a tough time thinking of you as a cardiologist, and I mean that in a good way because you speak so much more like a very deeply trained biochemist. Uh and now I've got to concede you're like my new favorite podcast. That's very kind. Uh I am also a self-proclaimed scientist. I never got a PhD, but I really like science. I spent I've spent a lot of my life in a lab. Now, something that the viewer should know is we already have a little bit of history. We've had um I actually had to go back to when the very first time we had any kind of exchange at all happened, and it turned out it was on Twitter a year and a half ago. It was in like the middle of January at some point. And probably, I'm just guessing, but if you went a little more forensic from there, we probably got into some debates here and there. And then we kind of got into like this really lengthy debate that I won't bother recapping, but you know, went on and on for quite a while. Uh but as with I think a lot of your uh best friendships, you know, after we kind of beat each other up for a while, we got into like some good, you know, private discussions. And uh I've I've since considered you um without question one of my favorite people in low-carb, and I want to emphasize in low-carb because it may sound odd. Typically, a lot of people feel like those people debating on the side a little bit more friendly to lipid hypothesis are usually not low-carb friendly. But, let's correct the record up front in this discussion is while you may feel different than I do on some of these cases with the lipid hypothesis, you're absolutely a fan of the low-carb diet. Would that be true? All in. Yeah, all in. I mean, I have my own version of what I kind of would think might be the optimal low-carb diet, but we can talk about that later, too. But, yes, I am all in. I am low-carb. I've been in nutritional ketosis basically for the better part of the last year and a half myself. And big believer. And this includes on the business sense. Feel free to plug your product real quick. Well, yes, so yeah, I will I don't want to plug it, but I want to acknowledge it as a conflict. I am a co-founder of a company called Keto, K E Y T O, and we um well, we can talk about it, but we end up we have a um a device that allows you to measure acetone from the breath, but we're really trying to build um a full end-to-end program to help people to basically help make doing low-carb easier on people. And so, I think you know, we'll we'll talk a lot more about that in the future as a company, but I but we believe in in not just, you know, making a device and giving people information about whether they're in nutritional ketosis, but we want to help people know what to do, what to eat, what not to eat. Um and really kind of see ourselves as a as a nutrition company beyond anything else. That's fantastic. Okay, so I got inspired. I actually made a special graphic just for this this podcast broadcast, if you will. But, to get to it, I'm going to need to share my screen real quick. And there we go. All right, hopefully you can see it all right. All right. So, pretty much we have two groups around the world right now. There's this There's this occasion playing out over and over again. You've got somebody who's been on low carb, and they're actually quite excited about their low carb journey. In fact, they're probably really excited about their first blood work, which they assume, like I did when I was getting my first blood work, that's going to be great across the board. But then uh they get an awakening of sorts. They find out that actually no, there is one thing that is concerning to the clinician, to the doctor, and that's that their total and LDL cholesterol has gone way up. And I'm going to kind of through our conversation sort of call this um of those people who end up ultimately deciding that they would like to go ahead and continue with the higher total and LDL cholesterol. I'm going to call those the low carb cholesterol skeptics, of which I would kind of say that I'm certainly on the side of uh many who see their LDL go up on low carb, and many have a new found skepticism towards the medical community due to prior advice appearing to be flawed or unhelpful. So, they're already kind of on this this different ground because uh like me, I was, you know, told fat is fattening. I was told meat would raise your blood pressure, all sorts of different things that I was used to from dietary advice growing up that all of a sudden it feels like low carb turns on its end. But I feel like the skeptics don't always take into account where the clinicians are coming from uh because often they're not as familiar with the blood work, and often they haven't seen total and LDL cholesterol at levels of many low carbers. And if I could even take it a step further cuz I feel like this doesn't actually get brought up enough. Um I think that a lot of people, and this includes myself, who haven't actually spent time as medical professionals, we don't have a lot of the personal experience you do providing care, where we actually observe people uh before an event to then observe what happens after an event, whether they survive or they don't survive, what effect that can have on their families, and so forth. And so, I think a lot of times there's not as much appreciation as to the emotional impact um that should be it should be respected, I think, on both sides of the fence. It's not just how much the patient cares about the gains that they've made. Uh I think it's not just on the knowledge side with medical professionals, it's also that they genuinely have a deeper kind of concern that um they have a lot of specific experience with. Wouldn't you agree? Yeah, I I think so. I mean, uh um it changes the game. I always used to tell my kids that like if an experiment went bad in the lab and a bunch of mice died, like we'd clean it up and start it over on Monday. But if something goes bad in the hospital, you make a mistake, uh you don't get that second chance. So, it's a different it's a different level of stakes, I think, probably. Right. And I And I think that that's I think that that's something that's often missing from this part of the conversation is a I've come to realize really um I'm embarrassed to say more in say the last 6 months than in the first 6 months how much of an emotionally charged subject this is. The probably the more detached engineer in me has thought about it more in a detached way, where it's, you know, there's there's the ins and outs and the levers to pull, but there's really a lot of buy-in, I think, at an emotional level that does kind of create a sort of fog of war, if you will, uh in this whole process of these two groups kind of trying to talk to each other. And I think that's been a big challenge with communication because we don't the reason I've been looking forward to this broadcast so much is we don't often have what we're having now, where a lot of the debating is going on on Twitter, it's going on on forums or on Facebook, and there's there's more of this distance between both sides. There's not as much face-to-face communication. And I wish there were I wish there were more face-to-face communication, especially between people of these different groups, in a more meaningful and constructive way. Yeah, I mean, the truth is, Dave, I'm used to having these conversations. I've been having these conversations with patients for the last 10 years or more. I have a lot of patients who are very skeptical of the role of cholesterol and cardiovascular disease and skeptical of statins and other cholesterol-lowering drugs. And so, I have this this kind of conversation a lot, face-to-face. I And actually, let me follow up on that, then. How many do you feel reach a decent level of expertise, especially in things like, you know, lipidology and cardiology and so forth? Uh I don't know how you define decent level. Uh it's very easy to get a superficial understanding of what's going on. And I think, uh sometimes, you can be fooled into thinking that science is simpler than it actually is. Um uh How many I don't know. That's a loaded question, Dave. I don't want to say something I'm going to regret. I I think very few. I have I have a patient who brought me, this is just an example, a patient who brought me this, which I don't know if you've seen. Um it's Oh, yeah, I have. Well, I'm not sure if I've seen I think I may have seen there's a second one. I think I've seen the second one. First one. Yeah. But, uh no, I would say most of them are not are internet-savvy. Uh they're not dumb people. These are smart smart people. And I don't ever come at this from like, I'm smarter than you are, I know more than you do. And frankly, this is as good a time as any for me to tell you my philosophical approach to caring for patients, which is my job is not to tell you, as my patient, what to do. My job is to inform you and have a dialogue with you. And if at the end of the day, you decide, as many of my patients have, that they don't believe this and they don't want to take cholesterol-lowering medications even after a heart attack, that's their decision and I'm not going to judge them or tell them I won't see them or I don't want to have them back. Um I've had some amazing relationships come out of that. Those kinds of um sometimes frustrating conversations. Ethan, this is a safe space. You can be as as blunt as you want. Yeah, listen, I mean I I it's it's a fascinating thing and uh we could talk about this forever and ever and ever. It's fascinating. Uh well, actually, this is a good segue is I sent you the two blurbs that you had sent me in the course of an email exchange. Would it be okay if I Sure. paste those? Yeah. So, before showing it, while it may come off to many people are watching this is somewhat critical, I I want to emphasize that this was absolutely in the spirit of a very constructive, very excellent uh email exchange that we were having. Um let me go ahead and share real quick. Back again. So, this was you you had offered two things. This was the first few sentences of each one. You said, "You sometimes seem to have made up your mind already or at least you seem intent on disproving the lipid hypothesis. At the very least, I try to reframe the conversation as exactly what it is, which is an attempt to understand the risks, benefits of changes in lipids due to nutrition. I actually think that's very well written. Uh I think that I think your advice is well taken in this regard and I and it really got me to trying to think about how best to balance um these two sides of a fence that I have to kind of straddle. It see on one side, Ethan, I'm trying to advance a conversation. And there's only so far that I can take things when it's just a matter of talking points getting flung from one side to the other. So, you heard of Magic the Gathering, the collectible card game? Yeah, of course. My kids used to play it. I often feel like these studies these days are like cards in a collectible card game. You've got your collection, you know, the skeptics have their collection, and then it's like, "Oh, well, well, what about this study? Haha." And then it's it's sort of it sort of feels like it's almost a game of playing off the level of saturation that exists out there right now. And I'm always trying to find a way to next level this, to really kind of get deeper into the mechanics of it, but I find that that's that's a bit of a challenge, particularly when I feel the other person doesn't think that I'm an honest broker, which I can understand is a problem, right? And this is kind of what you were addressing with that with that sentence, right? I think what I was addressing with that sentence is uh I think you're going to have a hard time finding people, I mean, look, I'll have the conversation with you cuz I do it all the time, but you're going to have a hard time finding a lot of people who will um be willing to admit that uh they believe the lipid hypothesis as a broader element is wrong. And uh I think you would have a hard time finding people who are going to be willing to believe they will reject that. I think all of us as scientists understand that science moves, and that there are certain things taken as fact that sooner or later found to be not true. So, I think everybody understands that there's some probability that the lipid hypothesis is wrong. I think most sort of mainstream scientists and physicians probably put that at an exceedingly low number. But, where what I meant by that what I said to you in that email was I think there's much less certainty around what are the effects of lipid changes that occur in individuals who go on certain diets, say a low-carb high-fat diet or a diet high in saturated fat? What are the effect long-term effects on an individual's risk of disease, especially when you start to weave in all of the many benefits that might offset the risk, even if we sort of just allow that the rise in LDL carries some risk. I think what I'm trying to say is I think what we have is a tremendous amount of uncertainty around that question. Whereas, I think most mainstream physicians and scientists would probably believe there's very little uncertainty around the former position, which is the sort of what is the role of lipids in cardiovascular disease as a bigger question. Does that make sense? Yeah, so let me see if I can rephrase that in a way that I think I'm interpreting it. There's a lot less certainty in, say for example, the benefits that you may have observed in low-carb patients where, you know, their blood pressure goes down, their HDL goes up, and their triglycerides go down, their uh insulin goes down. So, less hyperinsulinemia. These are all actual cardiovascular disease risk markers, not just all-cause mortality, but cardiovascular disease risk markers in particular. And here we have a list on one side of the ledger, and then we have LDL on the other side of the ledger. Exactly. And so, there's there's certainly, I think, a lot of people who would agree with you if this is where you're coming at it from, that are even low-carb doctors who would say, "You know, I am kind of uncomfortable with higher LDL, but I feel like that was a decent trade-off for what I see are these other risk factors that have now gone to a much better direction." Would that be a good retelling of it? That is. And there's a secondary, more nuanced part of that story, which I think and maybe even a tertiary one. But, the secondary one is maybe the changes in LDL that occur, I think this is something you're very interested in, Ron Krauss and others are interested in, but maybe the changes that occur in this broad bucket of things we call LDL that occurs a result of changes in nutrition like low carb and high fat, maybe those don't carry as much risk as say LDL that's increased genetically or for other reasons. And so maybe that can even be discounted more. I think ultimately what this we all agree on is we were in sort of a relatively data free zone here. I think no matter where you put your flag, I think we all agree that we need to to do a lot more work to understand this really important question. And there are many of us who I think share a passion for wine to understand this this really super important question. So I don't believe the uh the book is written on this. I I think there are fascinating and important scientific questions to be asked and answered in this area. Where I think things get problematic is when we go back into kind of re-exploring the origins of the whole lipid hypothesis back to you know however many decades ago and Brown and Goldstein and all the other things that I think most of us will probably take as fact. Um I think we're all open to believe I shouldn't say we all. We'll even say Cate Reese, I don't know if you listened to that one yet, but I highly recommend you listen to that interview because he and I talked about this kind of very thing. And while Asake did what Asake does, which is to say there's a linear relationship between LDL and risk, he did allow that there are potentially things beneficial things like weight and blood pressure, change other changes in lipids, insulin, other things that occur on in people with on low carb high fat diets that may offset that risk of LDL. I don't think Asake believes that there might be non-risky LDL. But I think maybe Rhonda does and I I believe I don't have any way of saying that there isn't. So I think it's a question that needs to be answered. Can Can I cuz you really just kind of opened up this is working great because it kind of makes a perfect segue to the next aspect of it. Let me actually um let me just show you two quick slides that relate right back to this. Uh uh So, this This has been I tried to figure out the best way I could kind of brief this up in a couple slides, and I actually had this in a recent presentation, but it really kind of cuts to the heart of it, which is I absolutely do believe there's such a thing as pathologically high LDL cholesterol, and a good example would be, for example, immune response. In fact In fact, you're probably aware there are many different um many different groups that will insist we're actually observing a higher LDL as a chronic inflammation, that this is ultimately being goosed to some degree by the immune response in play. Whereas, there's also pathologically low LDL, which we know can come from many different forms of cancer as just one example. The question is whether this right side of the screen is correct, and is obviously very central to my research because it comes back to a metabolism. Is it possible that people on a low-carb diet who are seeing high LDL, who are otherwise seemingly metabolically healthy, have the higher LDL because they're trafficking direct fatty acid delivery? And then, of course, this conversely seems to show up with those people who are high-carb, low-fat. If they're powered more by glucose, and thus more specifically by carbohydrates, is that why we would observe uh lower LDL? And that that leads to that This is really just the central question. When cholesterol is elevated for a metabolic reason only, so we can rule out the pathological reason for why LDL is, then does it pose the greater risk? And I would posit that right now, this is This is the driving part of your comment that came from before. Is that I was focusing a lot more on this metabolic question. Then I sought to find out if in the existing literature, in the existing data, we can find at least close enough corollaries. I mean, obviously there's just not that many, uh for example, lean mass hyper responders in the existing literature. That's such That's a brand new phenomenon. But were there at least people who seemed to fit this profile, this metabolic profile of possibly being powered a little bit more by fatty acids, uh even if it was more of a mixed diet than you'd typically see under keto? And then would that have commonalities that we could see in a basic lipid profile? And that's why I started seeking this triad. And by the triad, you're already familiar with it, but for anybody who hasn't, I'm talking about specifically high LDL cholesterol, high HDL cholesterol, and low triglycerides. And I sought to find where it is that anywhere and everywhere where I could find this triad showing up in the prior data. And and honestly, this is the biggest single point of frustration that I've had since starting this whole journey is I came from technology where we're just awash in free data. I mean, there's just all kinds of massive data sets for everything. And I'm over here on the medical side, I'm like, isn't there just a lot of anonymized available data for, you know, lipids at large scale that I can look at against cardiovascular disease and mortality? It turns out, no. Like, that's actually very difficult to get a hold of. Um but it's it's something that's definitely meaningful to me because I think it does relate back to this question of whether metabolically high LDL is in fact risky. Yeah, that's the 64 million-dollar question. I think let me ask you a question, and this is rhetorical, but meant in good spirit. Do you believe that it could be? Do I believe that it could be risky? Yes. Yeah. Okay. Yes, definitely. And so, if if you turn around and come back to the conversation we were having at the very beginning, talking about doctors, uh do you understand a little bit of the unease of doctors and in thinking about this as a hedge in that there's unknown unknowns, right? We don't know a lot that we don't know that metabolically, let's call it metabolically elevated LDL. I I can't tell you that it's as risky as LDL that happens for non-metabolic reasons, but I would believe that there's a possibility, maybe even a good possibility depending on where you come. And so the question is then what do you do in the meantime because you're not going to find out you know, you are not going to find out for 30 years or 20 years. And when you find out when you find out I think we can I think we can find it out faster. I know I'm not talking about the the studies that we were talking about potentially doing. I'm just saying if you're an individual person and you decide that you want to discount the risk, right? Which is everybody's right to do. I again, let's back up. I have people who discount the role of LDL in cardiovascular disease everywhere and refuse to I it's the wrong verb. Decide not to take a statin even after a heart attack. And that is an unsettling feeling for me. But again, they're autonomous free-thinking adults and and I don't run a jail. So they are they are fine to do that. I think there I have less unease around this metabolic LDL question, but there is still some unease about it. I mean, I don't I'll be totally honest like I do not like seeing people running around with an LDL of 350 or 400 no matter how it got there. That is unsettling to me as a cardiologist. But but I also can separate the two and understand that we don't have as much information there, but I will come back to this thing which is the reality is if you're an individual running around with an LDL of 350 you're going to make a decision you have to make a decision that today that's going to impact you in a relatively long period of time and by the time you get the answer it may be too late. That's part of how I kind of think about this. Yeah, and and let Look, let me first of all agree and if you probably probably don't see all the content that I ever do. Almost nobody does. I certainly I don't and I get tired of hearing myself, believe me, but I do try to take uh as many opportunities as I can to say what I'm going to tell you now. And I've been on record for saying it many times over, which is I I don't believe I I push back when people feel like their doctors are stupid or they're uneducated or like I believe your doctor means to do right by you. In fact, you know what? Actually, I have a video about this in my uh queue from like a few videos back, but I basically I believe that even the doctor who you meet who loves to, you know, prescribe a statin to everybody strictly for preventive measures. They're like, "I wish it was in the condiments." That doctor isn't just anxious to collect their stipend. That doctor genuinely believes in the tool set that that's the best thing that's for their patients and means to do right by their patients. They really do believe that. I I don't I get frustrated because I know there is there are some people out there who absolutely feel that there's a a genuine conspiracy out there that's, you know, meaning to keep us sick. That there's that even the doctors are part of this interplay process to where you stay close and connected into the system. It's not many people, but for those people, I I don't feel like they should have as much influence as they do to advance this perspective because certainly I feel that by and large almost everybody who's in the medical field they've at least entered the medical field with every intent to heal and to cure people and to help out. And I and I do wish that there was more attention paid in that regard. So, no, it's it's understandable why it is that there would be this shock, particularly when you've just gone through 8 years of medical school, 10 years, etc. You've had all of this time and you're around 99% of other people who feel likewise and who have gotten the same training and it's in the guidelines and so forth. And then all of a sudden somebody shows up and they say, "Ah, I've heard some things on the internet and now I'm just not so sure you guys are right." I can understand why that would feel a little bit like an affront and particularly if you're coming from a place of caring about their health outcome. Yeah, I don't think it's an affront. I mean, so first of all, I thank you for saying that. I I also believe that there obviously there are a couple There's some bad actors. There're bad actors in every everything, but I think most of the people that I've met in my now I don't know, 28 years around hospitals uh longer really if you count the time as a kid following my dad around. But I've most of the people are really well-intentioned and I think that that's important to kind of remind people. Sometimes people are misinformed and as I said earlier, we're all collectively misinformed from time to time. We all make mistakes. We, you know, we all kind of tend to get caught up in this herd mentality and sometimes that ends up being you know, revised or the evolution evolution in data happens, but but we all learn to be humble about what we do what we don't know. But I think most people are well-intentioned. I don't think that most of us feel that it's an affront or that there's uh somebody showed me once like uh or maybe even somebody bought me a a mug that's that said something to the effect of like um "Your Google search is not as good as my MD" or something like that. And uh and that's nonsense, right? Like I I think uh people are more informed today and better informed today than they ever have been when it comes to medical science and everything else. There's so much more information out there. I think people are also genuinely confused and I think we doctors are also pretty confused from time to time. But I do think there's a uh uh it's I wouldn't call it an affront, but there's a concern uh and maybe you could say it's paternalistic, but I do think many people feel a sense of unease and concern when a patient will come to them and do something that defies logic in their head. Certainly. And look, here's here's where I'm going to kind of turn it around the other direction. It The one issue that I've had probably one of the biggest ones I've had, especially over the last year, is that I've really really taken a lot of time to try to meet with people outside the low-carb community that are specializing in this field, particularly lipidology. And I find there's a surprising lack of curiosity, particularly with this phenotype we're talking about with lean mass hyper-responders. If If there's actually a If there's actually a phenotype that emerges from the diet that results in this extraordinarily high level of LDL, and it has these other things in common that we don't observe very easily anywhere else in science, particularly if that would normally be associated with a risk factor we're watching so closely. I genuinely and really quite naively thought this whole time that it would explode, that there would all of a sudden be 10 different PhD teams on top of this, and and that it would become uh something that might, you know, garner enormous attention. And I figured it was just a matter of time. It was just a matter of getting it in front of the right people. And now I'm honestly a little less optimistic about that than I ever have been before, and it's it's a bit of a problem, in my opinion. Don't be less optimistic. There's more I can tell you as somebody on the inside that there's genuine interest and curiosity about this subject. Again, as I said, I don't want to like belabor this point, but I think if you come at this, and this is me being my typical So, like if you come at this uh as there's the lipid hypothesis is wrong, everything you've done over the past 35 40 years in your career is wrong, you're probably not going to get very far. But if you come at this from the standpoint of, "Hey, look, set aside all that. Let's focus on this one very interesting question where you have as we've laid out several times, you have LDL going up in at the same time as all these other things are improving, and you also have demonstrably a different looking LDL. Right? I mean, it's everybody agrees it's a different looking LDL. So, it is purely plausible that the risk associated with that level of LDL, you know, as we've talked about before in somebody who has familial hypercholesterolemia versus somebody who's a you know, as you've termed them lean mass hyper-responder, it's fully plausible that those risks are completely discordant. And I think we until we know the answer to that question, we can't say that we do. That's fact. And I think many of my colleagues agree that that's a really interesting question. The other part of this that I mentioned before is what do we do in the meantime? And that is to me a more complicated one, and I struggle with that. I'll be honest, I do struggle cuz it is at those levels uh it generates a lot of fear. I guess it's probably the best word. And honestly, I I think that that's perfectly understandable, and I would argue healthy. I I think that I I I think that a lot of people assume, and this is kind of one other thing I really want to get out in front. There's a lot of people look at my research, and they over simplify it, or they look at the things that I'm pushing back on that I feel uh need more um I guess you could say I don't know if I want to say arguing against, but certainly I am the constant skeptic that in many ways are is playing the defense role of the lipoprotein. Because I feel like there's so many amazing things about it. And I feel like a lot of times it gets it gets sort of disparaged in the reverse role of sort of a prosecution. Um let me let me kind of unpack that a little bit. Okay. I feel like in order to advance the conversation, it's not as simple as to say, "Hey, what if it's possible that lipoproteins are part of the innate immune system?" Like that's actually already in the literature. But to actually take it a step further than that and say, "Well, this is actually a good reason that we may want to consider all-cause mortality when looking at lipoproteins." Already I start getting pushback and sort of dismissiveness in that aspect unless I actually take it a step further and get so far as to say get a hold of the NHANES data and crunch the data for myself to see what that association level is. Now, as you will know, a lot of people will then sort of push back and say, "Well, this could be reverse causality. You may actually be capturing the death rates of people who are already near death, which is why their LDL is lower." That's fine, but it took me kind of coming at it from a position where they would consider me the consummate skeptic in order to then feel a little more buy-in to advancing the conversation further to allow me to get to the next step. Does that make sense? It does. It does. And I know that you love to talk about all-cause mortality. And look, I love it, too. If you go back and read my however 50,000 tweets, you'll see that there was a long period of time where pre-approval of PCSK9 PCSK9 inhibitors, I made a very strong argument that we should not approve them until we have uh you know, outcomes trials because we've made mistakes like this in the past. Da da da da da da. I think hard outcomes are really important, but the absence of hard outcomes doesn't mean that they don't exist. I guess um the fact that trials aren't powered as to a degree that we would like to see them powered, say, to look at for differences in all-cause mortality doesn't mean that there is not a difference in all cause mortality. I think that's a really important thing that we should state clearly the absence of data is not data. And and so yeah, there are scant few, much fewer than I would like, trials in cardiovascular medicine that are powered to detect changes in all cause mortality. Scant few. Is the reason because there is no change in all cause mortality? No, the reason is because it's economically in infeasible or I would say unattractive for the companies to carry on studies that would last as long as they wouldn't would have as the number of participants they would. So for me it's a purely economic decision and non-scientific one. And I'm disappointed by it. It would be great if we had more. We don't. I I will this is one place where we're definitely going to butt heads. All right. But let me let me put it to you this way. From a statistical standpoint, can we detect whether or not one group has died less of one thing while in fact that one group that's died less of one thing is in fact, given enough time and enough power, dying more overall? And the answer to that's yes, right? You can power a study enough to determine one group's dying less of cardiovascular disease in particular. But you can't if you don't power it enough, you can't detect whether or not they may be dying more overall given enough given enough of a size of the sample and enough time, etc., right? Yeah. I'm not sure I'm following. So in other words, is it possible that a drug can reduce the rate of death of one like cardiovascular disease. You have less cardiovascular disease. So the other group has more cardiovascular disease. But the intervention group actually, if it were 10 times the size, would prove that it actually has more overall mortality and therefore they're dying more than the placebo group. Yeah, so I have two responses to that. One is and I know where you're going. So one is uh yeah, of course. But two uh I mean, still far and away the highest causes the the biggest causes of death in the developed world cardiovascular disease. I mean, by far and away. So of that, you know, chunk in the denominator of all cause mortality, there's a big portion portion of that that's cardiovascular death. Um so I I don't think we're off and I do think there are enough hints from the few trials that were actually adequately powered to detect differences in all cause mortality. And from human genetics, I think there's enough of a hint that we're not missing this. This This conversation, Dave, actually is the exactly the same conversation that happened in the night early 1990s when I was a medical student before Forrest came out. And there were a lot of people who believed that statins might reduce the risk of heart attack because of their effects on lipoproteins. But there were an equal number of people who were terrified that statins would cause people I mean, there were stories about statins causing an increase in the rate of suicide, cancer, I mean, everything you could possibly think of. And so I think when Forrest came out and showed it really settled people's fears that there was going to be some big signal of something else. And in fact, if you go and you look at the now hundreds of thousands of people and I know you hate statins, but or statin trials. No, no. If you look at the hundreds of thousands of people that have been randomized to clinical trials on statins, there haven't been big signals of talks. Right? I mean, you can I I think we all agree there's a very small but real effect of increasing risk of diabetes. There's a lot of debate about neurodegeneration. It's never shown up as far as I can see in anything uh close to a real signal. There's never been a a signal on cancer. And if anything, the the sort of pleiotropic effects of statins suggest that there may be benefits in reducing other diseases in addition to cardiovascular disease. So, I don't think um I think I'd be very surprised if statins were causing a decrease or an increase in all-cause mortality uh despite all these other things we know about. I don't think there's some hidden magic out there. I'll say that. I'll I'll say this, because as you know, I I don't normally dance into the the statin soup. I'm trying I've always tried to be mindful of it, but I'll It's not so much that I have a dislike of statins. I think a better way of putting it Here's a good way of putting it. Statins may be the best thing in the world. They may be the worst thing in the world. I actually don't know. My problem was They're not the worst thing in the world. They're not the worst thing in the world. Yes, we know worse things. The point is uh my problem is with the with the collection of the data. It's the statin trial data. It's necessarily and understandably uh it's got a degree of selection bias. It has to because it's it's industry driven. It it necessarily needs to be. That's not a conspiracy thing. That's just a That's an understandable Why would you take products to market that are failures? You wouldn't, right? Well, they do it all the time. They don't mean they'll take them to market, but they take them to phase three clinical trials. And we have lots of examples of phase three clinical trials that blew up and were unexpected duds all the time. so of of the data that we've collected where LDL was lowered, but mortality increased, how much of that ends up in the meta-analyses? LDL was lowered, but mortality was increased. So, you're talking about like So, like a failed drug trial. Like Lipitor or Crestor. Like a Would a failed drug trial make it into the meta-analyses? I don't know. I assume so. Why wouldn't it? I mean It It's anything I mean, I don't do meta-analysis, so I can't speak as an expert, but if you're going to do a meta-analysis, you can't cherry-pick what your favorite data to go into the meta-analysis. You got to include everything. I'm not a huge believer in meta-analysis, by the way, Dave. I I don't uh I'm not I don't um I don't love them as a mechanism to do science. I think they're very fraught with potential bias. We're in great agreement on that. I'm not a big fan of them, either. Um But I'm not But I'm not even talking about that. I mean, there are a handful of But you've also You've already agreed with me, for example, on run-in periods. Run-in periods are another way by which a trial is unfortunately starting off on a foot where it's potentially going to reduce what would be the perceived side effects, Of course. I I I And the bush is all the more reason why I think Daryl Francis's study, whenever it gets published, is going to help us understand the effect on muscle-related side effects. I I think we're we're far from complete on that story because of the run-in period. But I doubt a run-in period's going to alter the all-cause mortality. I doubt that we're killing people in 30 days. But there's another major factor. There's the There's the ability to arbitrarily stop the trial and then take it to market. The The arbitrary stoppage is one of the biggest problems I have. That's not arbitrary. It's actually All those decisions are made by DSMBs. I mean, I Look, I uh I don't think the pharmaceutical industry as an industry is is like the greatest thing in the world, but I think again, when we come back to discussing like the intentions and quality of the people, and I know many of them. These are all really good people, all well-intentioned people, all want to do well. Not all. A lot of most of them. So, I I find it very hard to believe that there's a vast conspiracy among this entire industry of people to harm people. I think these people actually really do want to do what their mission is, which is to help improve human health. And I agree with all of that. That's That's why I don't That's why I don't like even bringing up these aspects that are the problems with statin collection of data, because often it becomes And you and I kind of got into this one other time, where I said, you know, I don't want to end up in the false dichotomy that dichotomy that often happens with um discussing drug trial data. Because drug because I agree with again, everything you said. I believe everybody is is well-intentioned as they can be in the execution of this. But of course, why wouldn't a drug company do a run-in period? Why wouldn't Okay, what about an NIH sponsored trial? Or what about a NHS sponsored trial? So and again, I I'll grant you that the run-in run-in periods are make understanding the muscle-related side effects of statins complicated and difficult. And I think there's hints from things, you know, out there that suggest that it may be bigger than it actually has been reported. But we'll get the answer eventually. We will get There are studies ongoing that will answer that question. I very seriously have a hard time understanding how a 30-day run-in period is I mean unless you really think that the LD50 of statins is like, you know, I don't know, something significant that we're killing enough people in the run-in period to actually make it like I I think we'd have seen that signal. Right. Again, and this is why I just I can't emphasize it enough. I don't know. It's my My complaint is more with the collection of the data. It's It's less I don't really spend a lot of time talking about statins in social media or anything. I've never told anybody to go on or off statins. I just I try to be as agnostic as I can. What's your problem with the collection of the data? I'm curious. Uh I So I would actually love if there were non-industry studies on statins There are. talking about. Like I I want like large-scale uh follow-ups. I would love like a 10-year trial on whatever the existing prominent statin is of the day. And for it not to be run by industry. And for the trial period to be fully complete and for there to be no run-in period. Like that alone would already cover quite a lot. Sure. I I don't know. I'd have to go back and look, but I'm pretty sure the heart protection study was an NIH sponsored trial. I'd have to go back and look at them. But I There have been, you know, the NIH does sponsor drug trials from time to time. They've done it more in the hypertension space. They've done it at least twice there with Sprint and uh with Allhat. I But uh And that By the way, those two trials actually, particularly Sprint, got criticized more than any drug trial I've ever heard. I mean, that trial got lambasted because of decisions those guys made to do things in a certain way scientifically. So, I I I off the top of my head can't remember them, but I'm pretty sure there have been government-sponsored statin trials. Um And again, the only reason uh I asked about that. I And maybe I just got bad information. My understanding is there was really one major large one, and I And again, I have not addressed on statin data in a while, so I'd have to look it up and probably, you know, give it to you after the podcast, but it's uh it's And that one didn't provide surprisingly good information on the statin side of it. Uh but I But again, I think it really would help the public relations of statin trials themselves if that was a little more of a predominant and common circumstance. That these things actually be run by like the I know, but that's not the way we don't I mean, we barely have money to fund the science that we want to do. And I mean, that's just change you know, that gets into kind of how we redesign the entire system. We happen to have a system where these drugs are being developed in, you know, in in corporations, and that those corporations have a vested interest in seeing that their product, you know, does as well as it can do. They obviously also have a vested interest in seeing that their product doesn't kill people. It's bad when that happens, and it's bad for them then when when it happens. And I really believe they don't want that to happen. I believe there are plenty of examples where they've done things that were greedy and dumb, and we can all point to them. I think the Vioxx story is a great one. But uh anyway, yeah, so a heart protection story was definitely a government-sponsored sponsored um uh statin trial. Um But in any case, I think the uh the gist of this is that maybe the other thing to do now is to kind of um come back to why many of us, including, you know, me, feel so strongly about about drug trials. Uh cuz I do I think you I think you know that, but I I just want to make sure that we that we explain that to everybody else. This is not just like me trying to make money for my friends in industry. There are reasons why, like, when it comes to looking at the quality of the data and assessing sort of what does this mean, there's a reason why many of us are drawn towards these placebo-controlled, randomized controlled trials, right? Right. Well, You get that, right? Yeah, 100%. Well, actually, this this kind of sets up the perfect segue. Let me Let me switch on over to the one question that I was mentioning from before. So, what um what the tweet was referring to, and this can Let me give proper credit. This comes from Eric Rogers. And this this was a post talk analysis of the 4S trial. Uh and this too, I haven't seen this uh study in a little while, so I'm I'm not sure how well I can quote this, but the graph effectively brings it out. This actually had the the triad in play, where you can actually see between the placebo arm and the intervention arm that uh the placebo arm that had We're just going to read this. Effects of simis- uh simvastatin on event free survival by subgroups defined by baseline HDL-C and triglycerides. The event free survival was significantly lower in lipid triad patients receiving placebo than in other treatment subgroups, and it improved more with simvastatin in lipid triad group in lipid triad subgroup than subgroup with isolated LDL-C elevation. So, these hollow round dots that are over here, this is basically those people with the triad. In effect, uh uh in effect, statins weren't helping Let me put it this way. They were doing as well as if they were on the statin for the control group or for the intervention group. Okay. So So let me ask you this straight up. Okay. Wait, can you leave that back? I want to Yeah. Uh hold on a sec. So let me ask you this straight up. Wait, wait, hold on. I'm slower than you are. So, uh if empagliflozin will give me a lower in lipid triad patients Lipid triad is HDL What is How is it defined? A positive positive HDL um High HDL, low triglyceride? Yes. And LDL is they don't care? Uh I don't know. Again, I've got to I've got to get back to the study. Uh I'd have to check. Because again, you know, I if you want to be super formal about this, we're talking about LDL, but really the marker that matters is non-HDL cholesterol. So, I mean, I think we're actually probably talking about the same thing. I mean, it's uh uh That HDL cholesterol doesn't matter? Well, I don't believe that HDL cholesterol matters formally, causally at least we haven't shown it in anything that I've seen. But what I'm saying is the marker that we that I think is the best predictor of risk is not LDL-C, which is calculated by the Friedewald equation, but it's non-HDL cholesterol. So, total cholesterol minus the HDL. Because that includes all the apoB containing particles, including LDL cholesterol and triglycerides. Right? Yeah. And triglycerides. And Lp(a). So, um So, I think that that's been shown again and again. Now, you'll get some of these lipid people, like Tom Dayspring and Allan Sniderman suggesting that that's not sufficient that you need to measure apoB or LDL-P. That's a more nuanced conversation, but I think most people agree that the best marker, the ideal marker is non-HDL cholesterol. And there's been some discussion of trying to reframe that as the marker that we all follow. The problem, of course, is that everyone's been following LDL-C for 30 years. So, I actually want to return to that, but before before dropping off of this Okay. If If that's true, if high HDL and low triglycerides uh in a strata show that a statin would not benefit them. You would consider that to be very important information for us to know before deciding to prescribe it, right? Yeah, so you're saying if the patient came to you and they had high HDL high LDL and low triglycerides, and if there were a trial that had shown that statins didn't work in that population of people, that would be important to know. Is that what you're asking? Yes, like you likely wouldn't treat them if the placebo arm of those trials didn't Don't want to treat people if they're not going to derive benefit from the drug. Yeah. Okay. So, then here's my direct question, the reason why I have a problem with statin data. Why is this 15 years old? Why has there not been more We already have plenty of data from plenty of trials since 15 years ago. It It may be longer, right? Wasn't for us like 20 years ago? For us was 1994, yeah. Yeah, okay, 20 years ago, 20 almost 25 years ago. How Why in the world, if we've identified this then, that this might have been a low risk group, why wouldn't we have at least wanted to confirm or disconfirm that this was a regular low like non-benefit group? So, that's a great question. And that speaks to, I think, a real problem in doing these kinds of trials, these kinds of studies, which is that the drug companies have no reason to make their market smaller. So, that's actually a reasonable right. No, no, no, I grant you that. That the trial's not going to be sponsored by a drug company, right? Why would they ever want to make their market smaller? And so, then that raises the question of who could possibly afford to do a 30,000-person, 5-to-7-year trial where you stratify people by their baseline HDL triglyceride levels. That That Look, I'm not saying that's not an interesting trial to do. The problem is it doesn't exist, and I don't see a easy way for it to get done with unless you find a billionaire who wants to sponsor it. Right. And And look And listen, right at this moment in time, if I was the stalwart skeptic, I'd be like, "And that, Ethan, is why we should just ignore all that data." And I'm not. I'm not saying that. I'm saying quite the contrary, that the thing that makes me cynical is not these setups for how these trials happen. The thing that probably feeds the hardest part of my cynicism is that this wasn't just discovered last year, and now there's a new push on the scientific community to try to identify this low-risk population. you're you're probably underestimating the in uh you're underestimating the challenges that would be associated with doing the trial that you describe. I mean, these are humongous trials, and they take, you know, millions and millions of dollars, and they're done across multiple countries and continents and institutions. I mean, again, this one that I'm looking at Heart Protection is 20,000 UK adults, 20,536. So, I mean, these are not like, "Hey, let's put together, you know, like a Kickstarter campaign and see if we can get this done." So, I think there are probably a lot of scientists out there who would love to get that the exact trial that you just described done. But that it hasn't been done doesn't mean Well, why can't we do why can't we do further post-hoc analyses of the other trials? Well, that you'll have to go speak to people who understand statistics a lot better than I do, but the post-hoc analysis world believes the post-hoc analysis is post-hoc analysis. So, uh and I think you see this a lot more in cancer trials and I'm not a trialist, so I'm not going to speak to it, but I think pre-defining and specifying your your endpoints is incredibly important because of the multiple comparisons problem, the Bonferroni correction problem. That is, if you looked at one outcome and you, uh you know, have a you know, power to be to have an alpha of 0.05, you know, P less than 0.05 is being but there's a 95% chance that a true positive that a that the result you get is actually real. Um if you do that over and over again 100 times, you're going to find five. Right? So, that's part of the reason why they ask you or they the statisticians force you to correct for multiple comparisons, the multiple hypotheses. So, um whenever you do one of these post-hoc things, you have to be cognizant of the fact that it wasn't, you know, does that the trial wasn't designed to do it that way. It doesn't mean you can't learn something and it doesn't mean that it can't be hypothesis generating, but I don't think it's going to be practice changing. I I think it's and I fully I fully concede that we'd be willing to go towards the direction of hypothesis generating. I'm all for hypothesis generating, particularly if the data is already resident. If you already have like these massive databases that exist that have all of that data in hand, why not at least have access to people who can independently detect that? And and that's I don't know how to answer that. That I think that's going to change. I have I have a strong suspicion that the there's been a big change in the way that we all have to agree to share our data and even the drug companies are going to have to share their data. I I believe that that problem is going to be solved going forward. Whether you'll ever get access, whether whether you're ever going to get access to the old trial data, that I probably guess doesn't happen. No, I'm so glad you said that because you I don't know I don't know how much you follow me on this, but I am such a staunch advocate for open data. Yeah. We're doing these blood testing drives. We did one in San Diego and we're going to do another one coming up in Houston. And I've asked people if they would opt in to allow us to make their anonymized data available as a straight-up data set. And I'm very thankful for everybody who's been able to sign up this far and we're trying to do more and more of that. And I I want this data to be easily available. One of the things that frustrates me as a technologist is I really feel like we on the technology side could help you guys on the medical side if more of this data was available for us to do machine learning against. Cuz I'll bet there's all sorts of things you guys have never imagined or we couldn't have imagined but an AI could have picked up and started to detect different sorts of patterns and things that we can actually make better use of. But it it takes getting to the point where there's more data sharing. I mean, it's it's strange to me that you have such a small group of people that are stewards over millions, billions of dollars worth of data that for which there's so little is applied any given point. It's just it's frustrating. You will not get an argument from me on that one, Dave. I think you're right. I think and I do think that that that sort of ship has sailed. I think people are are now going to be forced to. Now, there are concerns about privacy, especially when it comes to the power of AI and de-identifying or re-identifying de-identified data, right? I mean, there are ways that you can now I've been shown can kind of take a de-identified data set and actually re-identify who the individuals are. So, that is a separate conversation, but I think in general that um requirements for data sharing have changed a lot in the past four or five years. I think we're going to see that continue. So, I think you'll have access to tons of data going forward. Yeah, and let me actually double-check on this. Isn't Isn't it true that there is a common practice with um with uh anonymized data for which some parts of the data get slightly modified so as to kind of skew it in a sense to make some portions of that I've heard that there are things you can do. I haven't actually done it, but I've heard that you can like take everybody's birth date and make it the first of the month and there are other ways, you know, you can do things that make it harder to re-identify people, but anyway, I think the power of this technology is amazing and um and I think if it's used thoughtfully and carefully that that it's tremendously exciting. So, I I'm looking forward to seeing what happens when people like you get their hands on big data sets. I think uh some of it is just hoarding and some of it is, you know, just protecting people's, you know, empires, but some of it is also legitimate concerns over privacy. So, let's go ahead and return back to non-HDLC. Okay. Something really fascinating happened, I want to say a few months ago and I was calling it at the time real-time science because having the NHANES data in hand, uh I believe it's Dr. Tro who brought up and non-HDL again and I realized that I had run all of these things against LDL and not only that, the calculated LDL, so it's Friedewald. Uh but I had never done non-HDL and so I had ran non-HDL against uh those people 50 and older. And indeed I found a stepwise increase in mortality when non-associate when when not having any further qualifier to it, right? But here's where it gets fascinating. And, you know, I'll see if I can actually link it in the show notes below on this uh this YouTube, but I'll share it to you a little bit later. When we dropped the triglycerides to under 100, it flipped to where actually the higher and higher your non-HDL went, the better your all-cause mortality, the lower it was. And it was also stepwise, which really does seem to further back up that uh this may really come down to remnants, triglyceride-rich lipoproteins. The greater presence and likelihood of those being in your bloodstream is itself is itself a very bad sign. Maybe. Maybe. I mean I I'm not a huge fan of like chopping it and dicing old observational data. I I I know you love it and and it's fun to like, you know, go and analyze the data set and it's the only one you have. Uh but I I'm not sure how much more we're going to learn from that one. Um and I I mean that with respect. I don't mean that you're wasting your time. I just it's not my thing. Yeah, absolutely. It Well, and for what it's worth, it's the only one I have so far. Yeah. Yeah, you'll get access to more. I mean, look, I I I understand that you that that's exciting to to dig in and do all this stuff. Uh I just Yeah, for me it's not um it's not I don't have to share that excitement, I guess is the Well, and and look, to the other point, I'm not going to pull up the quote, but you were explaining why it is that um I may have struggles in trying to connect with some of these other scientists. And I think that this kind of gets back to the meta conversation we were having earlier. In 2016, right as my research was kicking off, right as I had the inversion pattern in hand, and it was so exciting, and I just again, I naively thought it was just going to be snatched up and taken away and then it'd be like, "Thanks, Dave. We're going to go ahead and take it from here." and then everything would snowball. Uh I had such a tough time connecting with anybody even at like a mid-level, particularly in lithology. And now I'm having a lot more access, a lot more conversations, and I don't think it's because my data changed that significantly from what it was before. I think what it comes down to is there's more and more uh social media credential, I guess, as opposed to actual credential that you would typically get from university and so forth. And to whatever degree that that's allowed for that access, I appreciate it. It shouldn't work that way. But it appears that it does. It's one of the factors that it's end up ended up helping me get more access to be able to move this research forward. And maybe that's just what it takes. The downside of that is a lot of that gravitas comes from challenging uh the existing patterns the particularly in the area of risk. People are very interested in understanding, you know, where I stand on risk. And no matter how much I want to be nuanced about it, uh a lot of people will oversimplify it. And that that ends up becoming kind of a problem because I'd rather they not oversimplify it, but that What do you mean about risk? Uh for example, I think it's very possible that LDL may turn out to not only like it's not whether or not it's benign or detrimental on its own, it's whether or not having metabolically high LDL may actually be associated with greater longevity. That actually you will have lower all-cause mortality with higher LDL if you have the triad. I think that's quite possible. Uh Yeah, I mean this goes back to what we were saying earlier. It's everything is possible until it's not. And I think it's an interesting question and I think there are lots of reasons to to want to answer the question. I don't think it's a stupid question. I don't think this is like this is the dumbest thing I've ever heard my entire life. Why are we wasting our time here? LDL is toxic and poison and you should kill it no matter what. I think the question that we talked about at the beginning does LDL in the context of all these other things good things mean the same thing as it does when it's you know, everything's bad. And the second thing is is there's something different about the LDL that occurs as a result of these nutritional changes. My And this just comes down to like how you and I would behave in a casino. I'm obviously more risk-averse. Like I see this as hey look, there's a huge body of literature and evidence out here that paints a picture that, you know, LDL is I don't know what you want to call it. Dangerous. Um and yes, there might be something different about this case, but what do we do? And from my perspective, this is really ultimately what it comes down to is that I think uh this conversation often gets framed as a false dichotomy, which is you have a choice of either low carb, high fat with a high LDL where you're going to die, or you have to change your diet and do high carb, low fat and you won't die. And we both know that that's not true, that there are several things in between that are viable options for people. And I think if at some point you want to say, "Okay, look, I'm willing to understand that there's risk and that that risk is risk we won't understand for a long time, but I'm going to accept that because I love this diet. I love the way it feels. I love everything else that's going on in my life." Um and maybe what I'll do is even try and take a more um detailed look at all these other markers that I can measure like, you know, coronary calcium or CTA or other things to make sure that I'm not messing things up. I'm not just going to like close my eyes for 30 years and hope I don't have a heart attack. But, I think the point that I've been trying to make is there are lots of ways to potentially mitigate the risk short of stopping the diet or taking a statin. And those are that's sort of the way I've been thinking about this just in a sort of global sort of risk assessment way. No, I think you're I think you're right, this is kind of the joke I make a lot is I already have the cheat codes. I got the cheat codes back in 2016. I could I could right now like in three, four days from now, I could move my LDL-C to 130 by just having my carbs up at around 100 g a day. I would swap out fat calories, swap in carb calories, and that's about where I would be at. And for most people who come and they say, "You know, I don't really want to discuss risk. I'm really just interested in how it is that I lower LDL without without even trying to talk them into one direction or another." I want to help everybody who comes to me with wherever their position is at. And to that extent, if they're wondering what the best way is, my true sense is the best and most reliable way is to just be powered more by glucose and powered less by fatty acids directly. And you don't even need to go high carb low fat per what you said, per what I'm saying right now. I'm saying 100 grams of carbs. That's actually still technically low carb, maybe at the upper end of low carb. Uh but if you still want to operate a lower level, I can understand why you may be interested in the deeper subject of risk, especially as the data applies to you right now. It's just the I mean, Danielle I think Danielle you know, Danielle Belardo is this cardiologist fellow who we both have been interacting with a little bit um who's, you know, very staunch vegan plant-based person did this little experiment where she did 2 weeks of vegan keto. And and I think she demonstrated very nicely that you can you can do this I mean, her lipids were already ridiculously good, but they if anything, they improved a little bit. I mean, they didn't really change in a statistically significant way. Um but they certainly didn't get a lot worse, which is really interesting. And I think it it shows a path towards hey look, you can actually potentially have both. Where you can have all the benefits of low carb all the benefits of whatever that comes along with that, and also not have a sky high LDL. And that's something that I feel super strong about. And I think if that's And again, no one's going to force anyone down that road, but I want to demonstrate to people that you can actually have both. Right. And and for what it's worth, I think it is something I want to investigate both her and of course you know Kerry Dailis. Yeah, of course. They both have very low LDL while also being keto and it's the vegan keto. And I'm interested in how much of that is fiber versus uh mono and polyunsaturated fatty acids. I think it's that the I hate to interrupt, but I think you're you're hitting something that's super interesting and these are areas that I want to study going forward. So, fiber's one really interesting question. If you ask Rob Lustig, he'll tell you it's all fiber. But I don't know, maybe it's fiber. The other one though that I think is is just not explored and I don't know how you do it in the most scientifically rigorous way is what you were just getting at, which is the saturated fat versus replacement with monounsaturated or polyunsaturated fats. So, the unsaturated fat saturated fat dichotomy. And the problem is you don't know if it's saturated fat is causing whatever you want to call it, increase in LDL and it's just replacing it with something else that causes this versus it's the addition of the unsaturated fats that's actually lowering the LDL. That that to me is an unanswered question. I think there's some hints uh but that one to me is super cool. I love the replacement. my theory? Yeah, tell me. My theory is proof of rules the roost on that one. That actually polyunsaturated fatty acids have a substantial impact um and it's from a dose-dependent standpoint, I think it wouldn't take much. The problem is that it's very hard to isolate MUFA monounsaturated fatty acids away from PUFAs. They usually usually as buckets go, you're typically getting more on the saturated fat side with you know, much smaller amounts of MUFAs and PUFAs or you're getting a lot of MUFAs that come with a decent substantive amount of PUFAs. So, take olive oil. Olive oil is what? Two to one, I want to say, MUFAs to PUFAs. Yeah, something like that. Yeah. So, it's tough to disentangle the MUFAs and check it directly. But for what it's worth, those are the two experiments I have lined up. I'm I'm going to be doing one experiment where I'm eating exactly the same cuz I'm me. I'll be doing 15 days of like a 5-day washout of exactly the same thing and then a um a calorie swap where I'm swapping out the saturated fatty acids for a little bit of PUFAs. And I want to see how much of an effect that actually has against and I'll actually be taking my lipids every single day. So, I'll be So, you're you're just doing a one-for-one swap of SFAs for MUFAs? Yeah, or for PUFAs. I want to do PUFAs first. Sorry, PUFAs. And it's uh one-for-one. Yes. And what are you going to go How low are you going to go on the saturated fat? I don't actually want to go that low because I want I want to see um I want to see a fairly substantial effect size which I think I'll get with let's say an a swap of maybe 20% or less. Uh and what sucks is in order for me to do this the way that I want to do it, it's probably going to be some kind of oil probably mixed with my water that I'll have to drink with my food. Um when I do I don't know how much you I don't know how much you follow my experiments, but when I do these experiments at this point I'm now to the point where I always eat at the same times each day. It's always the same baseline diet so it can be compared my washout periods can be compared to prior ones. Um and that way when the intervention hits, it's very clear where the intervention changes and I try to get blood work at the uh start of the phases of all three phases. Um so, I'll be doing that on top of getting the CardioCheck lipids at the same time. Cool. You know, one quibble I still have a little bit from that email cuz you made so many great points in that email. No, quibble quibble away. This is what this is all about. This is basically therapy. Go go for it. Is I think I think what it was is let me actually read uh um By the way, I can be a huge I needed make be clear on that. I recognize I have some self-awareness. No, I I reject that. You are not You are not Okay. What I think I need to bring you up to speed with is I'm an engineer and I've worked with engineers. So Okay. believe me. They They We rule the roost on the load. So Okay, so you said be very rigorous with your methods. Yes. If I'm being honest, so far you have not done that. Now, I think that that point's well taken with regard to crunching data. Uh you know, doing things like assigning confidence intervals and so forth. I don't do that to the same degree as a typical trained scientist would, right? Um I'm I'm a little I'm I'm definitely much more open in the process of putting data forward and even though I try to caveat over and over again, it's preliminary, etc. There's that being on one side. The other side of it is I'm insanely rigorous with my end of one experiments and often times in the process of doing it, I learn more and more why it is that I can't trust a lot of studies that try to elucidate the same data. Uh so for example, when estimating food particularly not just with myself with my family, I feel like people's estimates of food are way way unacceptably off. And so things like food frequency questionnaires have meant less to me than they ever have. Point flip, yeah. At best. But on top of that, even to today, I now have a kind of game that I play with myself where if I'm um if I'm about to weigh something, if I'm about to weigh the food, I try to actually do my own test of trying to estimate it as best as I can. I actually have a little For anybody who cares to try this at home, I actually have a limp wrist kind of thing where I have to kind of feel if it's about an ounce or an ounce and a half or 2 oz and I try to guess before I put it on the scale. And I'm still impressed at what kinds of foods I can be completely off on. Like cheese took me forever. I so commonly uh underweighted cheese until I actually was doing it a lot more often. But it's But this is This is a problem because oftentimes uh people already have a natural bias in that they want to at least I certainly find this with my family and I hear about this a lot. They want to estimate overestimate the healthy foods they're eating and underestimate the unhealthy foods. I don't know how you guys on the clinician side deal with that because that's got to be frustrating. Um but they But on top of that, when it comes to things like food logs, they're just more likely to leave things off. And food logs are terrible. I agree. I'm not You're not going to get an argument. Yeah. By the way, I don't This is like um what I said to you was was incredibly elitist. Like, who am I to tell you how to practice science? But I will tell you that the the practice of science is not is something to this day, and I've been doing it for 20 years, that I feel incredibly unsure about. I think uh having not gone to graduate school, I feel very naked compared to my colleagues around here in this building who I think have a firmer grasp on basic fundamentals of science. And and I I've been trying really hard to uh take care to do, you know, the right thing in the practice of science, cuz it is it is much harder than it looks. Uh much. It's part of the reason why I've gravitated towards doing mouse experiments for the first part of my career cuz you can control so much there. And um you know, you can decide on on statistical power, and it's relatively easy to increase the sample size as compared to human studies. Unfortunately, a lot of the stuff that we're interested in doesn't The mouse is not a great model. So, you know, we're moving towards doing more human-based studies, too. I think if I could go back and de-assholify my statement to you about being versed in your methods, I guess what I would say is I don't ever doubt that you have rigor and you take a great amount of care in what you do. I think sometimes um the experiments you do probably are I guess the biggest way I'd put this is they're probably underpowered to have a lot of meaning just based on um on how you do them. I mean, I I think it's really interesting what's happening and I I think the N of 1 experiments that you guys all do are really interesting and I've done a couple myself and it's fun and great and everything. I'm just not sure how applicable that is to the sort of world of human beings outside of, you know, you and me and whoever else is doing our N of 1 experiments. Ooh. First first, A, you absolutely Your emails are just gold to me. I I should tell you, I've actually reread your emails Yeah, good. two or three times. And it's because you were you were taking the time to write me quite a lot of words to outline your thoughts on this and I I definitely took it in the spirit of what it was meant toward. You were you were trying to emphasize um what the environment is and for me to better kind of understand it. And listen, Ethan, it's got to be stated uh if I don't state it enough on my own, a lot of people project expertise onto me that I, you know, at the beginning of uh Peter Attia's uh podcast, I said it myself, I'm not a formally trained biochemist. I am not a medical professional. I absolutely confidently say that, look, this is self-directed learning and as you said in the email, most people who have uh done a graduate program and had a lot of time post-doc, they have a whole lot of core knowledge that I'm going to have gaps in. No question. The reason that and this is where it's going to lead me to the other part of this. The reason that I think um there's a lot of people who are paying attention to my work, including me, is that Yeah, it it is that these N of 1 experiments, they have the value of getting replicated instantaneously and they do. So, the The Feldman protocol from 2016 has now been replicated by over 200 people. That's crazy. These are all completely different individuals that have done this. And granted, it's not a perfect success rate. I think it's around an 85% success rate. And that means there's a 15% failure rate. But the fact that there's an 85% success rate is amazing, right? Like I I feel confi- Getting back to the casino, I'll bet you wouldn't bet me right now that if I grabbed a whole bunch of low-carbers and we ate fat all through the weekend that their LDL would go down at around an 85% success rate, right? Or would you? Uh Wait, sorry. You're saying if you took a bunch of people who were had been who are have been doing low-carb high-fat for a long time that Yeah. Let's say I took a hundred of them. We we went on a weekend in Hawaii and they consumed fat like crazy and we drew their blood at the beginning. Yeah. I would bet you that let's say 80. I would bet you 80% of them would end up having lower LDL cholesterol after the weekend is over. And that's an informed uh risk, right? That's something that I already have all these prior experiments to draw off of, including the um uh the KetoFest cholesterol experiment, where we actually we actually did that live. And when you say fat, you mean saturated fat? Yeah. I mean, well, whatever their diet was, but um multiplied. So, even if they were having more PUFAs and MUFAs, I'll bet it actually would go down, relatively speaking. Well, you'd expect it to go down because if they have a lot more PUFAs, right? Yes. Yeah. All I'm saying is it doesn't matter whether it's saturated fat, I don't think it matters whether it's monounsaturated fat or polyunsaturated fats. As they all go up, the LDL would likely go up. Oh, I see. Yeah. Maybe, yeah. I uh I would not be surprised if that was the case. I'm not sure that means a whole lot to me. Sure, but it it means a lot to me on the energy model side, because it seems to be more potential evidence towards the fatty acid trafficking. and let me let me ask you a question. Let's say I take 80 of my friends or 100 of my friends and we go off and let's say they're all doing sort of traditional conventional keto with relatively high saturated fat. And let's say all those people have high LDLs to begin with. So we call them lean mass hyper-responders. And that we go off for a weekend or a week and we cut out all their saturated fat and replace it with mono and polys. I think it goes down. Because I think because I think polys and monos maybe to a degree. I don't know, but the the polys I think rule the roost. That's that's my working theory right now. Yeah. I think you would not get a argument from a lot of people on that, but I don't think we have a good picture of how cholesterol biosynthesis is regulated from that standpoint. I think there's a lot I mean there are some interesting replacement studies that have been done, but that's an area that's ripe in my opinion. I agree. Actually, this is a place where I've had some disagreements with people who you're familiar with, but I I think ultimately there's just a greater deal of recycling that's in play when there isn't as much demand for the synthesis itself. I don't think I don't think lean mass hyper-responders are you know, are synthesizing cholesterol day after day at the same multiplicity. I think that there's actually right a lot of recirculating of the cholesterol from prior lipoproteins that have come That's testable. What's that? That's testable. We we've discussed it before. That is testable. Yes. The doing the kinetic studies and I think, you know, as to go back to what I said before, there are a lot of people out there who really do want to do these studies and I think it's important to understand because you could begin to build even a stronger case short of outcomes trials that you know, if it were, you know, the if the kinetics were favorable that you that you might offset the risk, right, of high LDL if it looks like they're not sticking around for very long. Um but if the flip side is flip side were true that it looked like clearance were messed up, then you might get a little bit more nervous. Can I approach the subject of whether or not we're looking at reverse causality from another standpoint? Sure, I'm always a fan of looking at reverse causality. Okay, so how much are we actually observing the character of the lipoproteins as causal versus what I think personally I think is more likely that they generally are reflecting the problem. That the lipid profile itself is reflecting the problem that's in the existing system. So Yeah, this is where you're going to lose me, Dave. Okay. I mean, because like you this is where I go back to the animal data. Like go back to I mean, it's pretty compelling. Like there's not a um I I understand what you're getting at that you think that this inflammation that causes the lipid changes. I think the vast majority of evidence suggests it's the other way around that that the lipid changes cause inflammation. Uh lipid changes initiate inflammation. Yeah, that's correct. Yeah. So so do So let me ask you this cuz you may not know this better than I do. Do we have animal models where we know for sure that it's a healthy functional vascular system where we managed to boost LDL particle count substantially. And and native particles, right? Like they're they're actually native to the animals themselves. this is the question you and I have talked about this before. I think we get into this like circular reasoning problem sometimes. I don't know how you isolate the endothelium from the the circulating lipoproteins. I mean, are if you're asking me have Can you make a mouse get atherosclerosis purely by having it overexpress a lipoprotein? The answer is clearly yes. If you're asking me um could there be something about the LDL receptor and its function in other cell types other than the hepatocyte that would disrupt the function of that cell? Yeah, it's it's plausible. It's possible. But there are multiple models genetic models of atherosclerosis of animal induced atherosclerosis and not all of them are LDL receptor deficient. Right, but what I'm saying is if we did what would be the reverse of apheresis where basically you're infuse it? Yeah, where you're basically infusing the native LDL particles. Yeah. I've not looked as much into the animal side of it, but have we done that where there's no genetic like knockouts or anything along those lines where it's actually just a sheer exposure level? Well, I mean I again, the transgenic this since most of these things are made modified in the liver um and since it's a lot easier just to turn on a gene to then start making something in the hepatocyte which is the cell. I mean what we're talking about is making it a hepatocyte in dishes and then infusing it into an animal which has done been done in for certainly for apoA-1 Milano. I don't I'm I'm not sure I get Actually, I would almost guarantee it's been done it for LDL particles as well and in fact, I think Brown and Goldstein did some really cool uh uh oh, what do they call it before when you sew the two animals together? Um lost my brain went dead. Um You know these experiments where you basically um ah, I can't think of it. Where you sew two Circulatory system basically? Yeah. Yeah. Uh and they could show that it was um the lipoproteins coming from one animal that caused atherosclerosis in a genetically normal animal. I'm certainly interested in any version of like reverse apheresis in some fashion to a to a healthy vascular system. And I've asked about that before. You you may know something that I've been able to get from my other sources and try and ask about it because of course I've tried to search for it and I've tried to actually ask some of the people who are more expert side of it, but nobody had seemed to Like for example, there's been versions where they've included say human LDL particles. I don't know why they went in that direction, but there's probably more logic. I was just saying look, is there just native infusion of rodent LDL particles that are, you know, native to those rodents at a higher concentration, I would consider it compelling data. I just say that say that up front. If it's a healthy vascular system, it's that would be a a clear sign. It's just that it's it's got to be comparable. That's the thing. I can tell you what with uh strong certainty, it's been done. I mean, these were the experiments that people did back in like, you know, before there was, you know, genetic engineering. These were the experiments that, you know, that people did. They were either diet nutrition studies or they were they were infusion studies. Um parabiosis is the word I was looking for. Uh where the where you sew two animals together. And I would bet and when we get done, I'll go and look that there were parabiosis parabiosis experiments taking animals that had high lipoproteins um and they showed that those animals caused atherosclerosis in a normal in a wild type animal when sewn sewn together. So, I'm I'm not I have to interject this. I would naturally want to see that they also that they also captured inflam- inflammatory markers. If uh what you're describing right there, particularly if it's like post-surgery, I would I would expect that there would be a healing process. you there's a there's a control, right? So, you set it up that you have sort of high LDL to wild type, high LDL to high LDL, and wild type to wild type. So, you can compare I mean, these are relatively easy Um for. So, you compare for the surgery. It's basically a sham surgery. That's the beautiful thing about doing it animal experiments is you can you can do all that without too much trouble. But anyway, I don't know the literature that well. And actually, I am not a lipoprotein person. I'm not a lipidologist. Um you know, I spent the first part of my career in thrombosis and wanted to understand everything there was to know about blood clotting. And I've spent the last 10 years or long or more trying to understand metabolism and insulin signaling and insulin sensitivity and the hormonal regulation of insulin sensitivity, this thing is just a hobby and I like it and it's important clinically obviously, but I am not anywhere near an expert in lipoprotein metabolism. Uh no worries. Obviously, I'm I'm not myself. I'm just working my way in that direction or at least towards trying to understand it more. You know, it's funny you mentioned that though cuz I have had some off-runnings with hemostasis and I've gotten kind of excited with a lot of things that associate with gets pretty fascinating. I'd really like to see a lot more studies on plasminogen especially and just the whole process behind that. I I first got inspired because of a friend who was talking about she thought she may have had some kind of stroke and that might be a TIA and was at the hospital and didn't know what it was called at the time, but they said, you know, we don't have enough time given how long it's been for you to get a I think it was a CT. Uh-huh. So, we're either going to get you this uh drug that Yeah. Yeah, it was TPA, right. And they said, "Okay, if it is a clot, then this will help you. If it's hemorrhagic, then then it won't help you. It'll actually make things a lot worse." And she had to just make a decision on the spot about it. And so she went with the TPA and now I know what TPA stands for. It took a while for me to find out a lot of these things, but the the whole process is so fascinating because as I'm sure you know, uh there's Our vascular system is constantly getting injured and re-healing in many different respects and uh we already have that um primary version of uh hemostasis to take care of it constantly. Um but then to some degree secondary comes around and then there needs to be a whole lot more things involved. Yeah. Yeah, look, I I mean, it's um it's still on my wall. I um even though it's been 10 years since we published the paper, but I I I never get tired of looking at this baby. Yeah. Um yeah, it's uh it's a cool system. I mean, it's a really cool system. And if you care about engineering and you care about evolution, it's a very it's a even cooler system. Cuz you have to you have to build a system that can respond very quickly. I mean, basically, if you think about it, right? If you're an animal that has a blood system has a that has a circulatory system, you have to be able to sense injury and repair it very quickly. Yeah. But the match between sensitivity and specificity, they're so important, right? Because if you have an overactive system, you'll get a stroke or a heart attack. You'll clot off. And so, the the finely tuning that and making it responsive in a timely way, but in a specific way, is one of the to me the feats of mammalian biology. Very cool system. Yeah, I I don't I I have to tell you, one of the experiences that I had early on in this process was that I had no interest I don't know if you knew this. I had no interest in science or medicine or biology or any of that. I was really all about writing code. And I especially got interested in when we were working very closely together to set up these big networks for the prior company I was in. And we eventually got bought out by gambling company. And those platforms are extremely complex. And then when I finally through fear, really, through my initial uh cholesterol test, suddenly had to start learning about lipidology. I was like, "Oh my god, this is a feat of engineering unimaginable." Like we're we're not I feel like we're so far away, surprisingly, given how far we've already come. Like there's so much work to do to try to parse a lot of these things out. But at the interconnectivity of all of these different systems is amazing. And I couldn't help it. I really was fascinated by the vascular in particular. The reason is because you need a lot of engineering mentality to deal with this problem of scarce space. There's, you know, you have this freeway throughout your body that really has to keep the lanes open all the time. Yeah. Yeah, it's the means by which your cells are getting what they have to get. So, from a complexity standpoint, for us to be these multi-celled organisms running around with just these massive complex organs within and so forth, it's a serious issue. And so, yeah, the reason I was in hemostasis was because I was especially interested in after a problem occurs, how the real true process of regeneration of tissue happens. Because that seems so challenging, so hard to pull off, right? Yeah, well, not many tissues actually can regenerate. So, you know, obviously the brain and the heart can't. There's some idea that you'd be able to stimulate regeneration. A lot of people are working on that. Not an area that I pay too much attention to, but but a lot of people would love to be able to regenerate dead or dying tissue. Well, I mean, certainly something like, you know, limbs, it's we're talking we're far, far, far cry from that. But, yeah, there's obviously been some data that's come back on say stem cell usage and there's I think there's what some Central America place that a lot of people are going to. I think I saw on a Joe Rogan that Mel Gibson had actually gone to one of these places and it like fixed his shoulder. He had had some like persistent injury and it was amazing. It was just basically a some kind of an infusion that had to do with stem cells that actually worked out pretty well. Well, or it was a really fantastically expensive placebo effect. That's possible, too. Placebo, I feel like doesn't actually get enough study. I I I placebo effect, like actually studying in a more scientific fashion, it should really get a lot more attention because we could learn a lot more about what's going on internally with us. You and I both love podcasts, and there's one, I think it's Hidden Brain, there's an episode on the placebo effect that was one of my favorite podcast episodes I've ever listened to. And they talked about this orthopedic surgeon who was doing operations, and everybody believed that this, you know, surgeon, I think it was like an, you know, arthroscopic surgery to repair meniscus tear or something in a knee, that it was going to make people better, but no one had ever done the proper sham controlled surgery or trial, and he did one where basically they would put the arthroscope in and just like stand there and sing for half an hour, and like randomized people to actually getting it fixed. And I think that trial was like landmark, it was published in the New England Journal back in the early 2000s and showed that it was this this surgery was basically no better than placebo. Now, what was interesting was placebo was better than nothing. And um I don't remember the magnitude, but there was definitely an effect of somebody thinking that they had had surgery. And um so I think the more we learn about it, you're right, there's a fascinating effect of placebo. Placebo's definitely real, no doubt. And for people to say that that something is no better than placebo, I think ignores the fact that placebo is something. I I agree. Actually, while we're on the subject, Sure. I I really wish every single thing that had a placebo arm was required to have a true placebo arm. That's actually one of my other complaints with uh a lot of uh cholesterol lowering medication trials now, is I really wish there were still true placebo control arms. Now, I realize that there's going to be a discussion on, you know, whether it's ethical and so forth because Oh, you're talking about as opposed to like on top of statin. Right. Right. Yeah. That's a whole That ship sailed, Dave. I Look, and you you could you could have that same conversation in a thrombo in the thrombosis clinical literature, too. There were plenty of drugs that were developed and they had to be tested on top of the existing therapies. And I, you look as a scientist, I hate that. As a physician, it's harder to ignore. Um it would be very difficult to do a statin trial, especially in secondary prevention today in the high-risk people to do a lipid-lowering therapy trial on a placebo background. I think you'd uh you'd find a lot of pushback at the IRB. Yeah, I know. I I definitely agree with you that everything I've come to understand is that ship really has sailed. It's out. But that said, as far as from a scientific standpoint, I mean, I really to me it's it's an oddity because I feel like unless you could have a level of certainty that, you know, you would have for say the earth is round uh that you could feel confident the majority of scientists are never going to change their mind on it, no matter what the data comes in. Yeah, but the but the the issue is it makes it I mean, in some sense, look, I totally agree with you. And I from a scientific perspective standpoint, it would be great to have. But but it raises the bar. It makes it harder to see an effect. I mean, if you're already starting on somebody who's on a background of a max-tolerated statin and has an LDL of 50, and you have to show an improvement in beyond that, that that raises the bar even farther. Like that makes it a Yeah, right. This is well, and look, this is the problem. This is the problem in a nutshell. Uh we don't know how much of an emotional impact it has on people to get their lipid information back. We don't know how much of an impact it has on their doctor that's seeing them and how they're treating the case, right? And and this is why here's the other ship that sailed. Uh this is why I think the only real way you could do a truly double-blind placebo-controlled trial uh on statin data is if the uh lipids were blinded from the patient, the trialist, and their doctors. They were. Okay, so this is this is in the earlier ones from the '90s? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. But are they No one had any idea what the lipids are. I mean, there were probably people who could tell based on what the blood looked like, but no, they were they were they were all blinded. Everybody was blinded. Okay, cuz I would I've been told that they weren't truly blinded. That is as far as in terms of the uh No? Not unless I'm completely missing something. No, of course not. I mean, you would then be I mean, you would be it would be an unblinded study. I mean, you'd know if you were on if you were doing a study comparing simvastatin to placebo and you and your doctor both saw that your LDL went from 140 to 60, you'd be unblinded. I mean, you couldn't know that. This is why I don't spend a lot of time on the statin side of the fence, but Wait, but I want to come back to this one before we finish cuz I think this is really important. I want to state clearly why we I won't speak for anyone else, but I am so enamored with drug trials. Why I find them intoxicating and and very difficult to ignore and why I love them so much despite all the warts that we've talked about. And that is that they're the closest we're going to get to having purely randomized, unconfounded populations where you can isolate a single variable. In this case, not the change in LDL, but the presence or absence of an active drug. And that to me to happens so infrequently, so it just like tickles me as a scientist to be able to do that kind of an experiment where you can compare two populations of people that are relatively similar, not not identical, but similar and that there's only one thing different between them. And that is this group A gets a drug and this group B gets a placebo. And that that's why I'm fascinated with them and don't want to ignore them because I think it's the purest and cleanest science that we'll get in human biology. Okay, but I do have to throw a caveat in there. As you all know, drugs don't typically do only one thing. In fact, that's one thing we were talking about before in that you like to call statins heart attack prevention drugs, not necessarily LDL lowering drugs, right? Correct. And this was in the And this was in the context of one of the discussions we were having is is I was bringing up that if it were true dose dependency and we were looking only at drug trials, then all drugs that lower LDL would have a likewise reduction in effect of heart attacks, right? Well, no. Oh, come on. If you had a drug that was laced with cyanide, it if it was compounded with cyanide, it would not be expected to reduce Right. You But your your mortality. Well, is that's what you're saying, right? before you'd have a heart attack. Yeah, there are drugs with toxicity with off-target toxicities. There are drugs that have been developed that happen to lower LDL. There are other biological examples of times when your LDL is low. You mentioned one is cancer, where you're really sick. Right. So, no. Not all LDL lowering is good. I'm not I I've never said that and never would. And I definitely agree with you as You were parroting me that we can say that statins lower LDL and statins reduce risk of heart attack, but that it's not 100% linked, that is the reduction in LDL to the reduction in risk of heart attack. I happen to think that it's strongly linked, but I am more than willing to allow that I think there are other pleiotropic effects of statins that confer benefits beyond their LDL reduction. That is 100% Which, by the way, I feel like is the pitch, if I were in your shoes, to give to the person who has the super high LDL who you're worried about. If If you're So, if you're saying, "Look, I I would still prefer you to be on a statin because it's not where your LDL is at, it's because I feel, even if you feel, that statins can only work from pleiotropic effects, go ahead and just accept the pleiotropic effects, right?" Yeah, that's exactly right. In fact, that's why I mean the guidelines in 2013 went away from looking at LDL levels at baseline or even in with treatment as a way to make a decision on on whether or not to use a statin. It was all now your LDL level by proxy was included in the risk calculator, but the risk calculators were an effort to try and steer people away from over-focusing on LDL and to look more globally at risk. Now, people didn't like that for a variety of reasons. So, LDL is now back into the discussion. Right. With the Well, and of course, 190 is now the qualifier by itself. Like you actually don't If you have an LDL of 190 or higher without any other qualifiers, the guidelines say it's you should be on a maximally tolerated statin. 100 You're absolutely right. I think it's basically equivalent It's considered to be equivalent to FH. Right, which yeah, obviously we'll we'll have different opinions on possibly, but uh the But getting back to your main point, I agree with you in that I can appreciate the um ability to actually do something in a randomized way as an RCT can do. And that's what drug trials can do and have humans as opposed to animal models. So, we actually have a comparable system. It's just there's no getting around it unless we had a lot more funding that went towards the public sphere to Like I would love it if there was just a lot more random reproducibility of existing drug trials. And then that would help to also keep the drug trials aware We'd all love it. We'd all love, you know, comparisons. We'd love There are all kinds of things we'd love to see. We as you mentioned, we'd love to see real placebo-controlled There's all The problem that comes back every single time we have one of these conversations, the problem is going to come back to me how you pay for it. And right now the model that we have in this country is that the drug companies do the R&D, they pay for the drugs to be developed, they pay for the trials. In the vast majority of the occurrences, that's the model. Is it a good model? If we had it to do over again, might I design it differently? Yeah, of course. But there are definitely some government-sponsored trials, 100% certain um and I think they look pretty similar. And and I also think like although I've never been on you know, a clinical trial, I've never done a you know, real big uh industry-sponsored trial myself and I've never been in the room there. I I think with a few exceptions, most of these people are really good people and they want to do well for science and really want to do well for patients. So, I think um there are very clear examples where that goes off the rails, but most of the time I think people do and are well-intentioned. And I I agree. Like it it's I want to be sure that it isn't lost that I believe as far as across the board, everybody on the medical side, everybody on the scientific community side, yes, there's some bad apples in all of these groups. But they are few and far between. I think most people really mean to um do right by not just their patients, but hopefully for the science itself. You should, just for fun, look at if you haven't looked at it, look at the Heart Protection Study, which was um this you know, UK-sponsored, not NIH, but UK-sponsored study of 20,000 people with coronary disease. Secondary prevention, secondary prevention. And this one was actually hit on all-cause mortality benefit. Yeah, in fact, uh I'll go ahead and link it down below as well. Um and that one was not sponsored by any companies. That was publicly funded? Publicly funded by the government of the UK. Great. I mean, if it's if it's good methodology, I'm going to love it. I look, there were we're always going to ar- it's great The beautiful thing about science is that it's always fun to poke holes. Like it's the um it's part of like the process, right? Like as you're always going to if you're a good scientist, you're always going to ask really good hard questions. And I think probably we haven't been asking hard enough questions. And in fact, I bemoan the fact that we can't have civil conversations like the one that you and I are having anymore. And that what it's turned to at scientific meetings at least is that people just don't even ask questions cuz they're afraid of what's going to happen. I mean, in the old days back in the '70s and '80s, I heard stories about people just literally like screaming at each other and throwing things, which is probably extreme on the one side, but at least we were having a discourse. And I think um if there's anything I can say is that we need to have more conversations like this where we educate each other, listen to each other, don't come to it I'm speaking to myself as much as I'm speaking to you don't come to it with a pre-formed dogma and an agenda, but try really really really to listen. Yeah, I So, I couldn't agree more with everything you just said. And I and I really this this is a pretty good place for us to wrap. We're actually coming close to your hard stop anyway. I I just have to say I'm I'm very thankful that you took the invitation that we were able to really talk about. I mean, it's sort of funny in many respects this is this conversation reminds me of conversations I've had with a lot of engineers that we came to the table anticipating that we'd have more things we would be disagreeing on. And then actually because we were already in the mood to really kind of hash things out, what do we do? We end up finding a lot of ways to empathize with each other. And I think that's what's needed more than ever, especially in especially with the low-carb community and with doctors and especially just with nutrition overall. This is really kind of an exciting time if you think about it because we've never really had such an ability to share information between groups so readily and so quickly. Um and yeah, there's some downsides to that as well. Uh but I think at the end of the day a lot of this comes down to being willing to reach out outside of your community and constantly check yourself, challenge your own core beliefs and see if you can keep a scientific mind on about it. Not just on, you know, day one or year one, but for the rest of your life. Yeah. Well, and I commend you for that and and it's been really fun to um participate in this. And again, I think you said at the beginning but it's worth repeating, I'm on the inside here. Like I'm a believer in in low-carb I I I see uh I see this conversation we're having as being the single most important thing to low-carb nutrition. And I think uh I probably have a very different take than almost everybody else in that world. Uh and probably not a very popular person in that world, but I am very much of a believer in low-carb nutrition. Very much. Well, you're certainly a popular person with me. So, uh how do people find you? Uh I mean, I guess the place that I spend the most of my time is on Twitter. I'm uh Ethan J O @EthanJOyce. Um And but I'm all over the place. I'm not too hard to find. People tend to find me. I've uh I'm always amazed by how easy I am to find. And I got to once again just straight up plug your podcast. I think it's just amazing. You're an You're a fantastic interviewer. And you're lining you're lining up some great guests, too. So, Well, it's been really fun. I think, you know, one of the sort of advantages of doing what I've been doing for a long time is I've made great friends. And so now I get to kind of call on favors of these good friends of mine. And so it's been fun cuz everybody I've interviewed so far with a couple of exceptions are people that I know really well and have already kind of really good strong pre-existing friendships with. Um there've been a few kind of that have been people I've just gotten to know. Um but it's been a fun process and we're we're We're to continue. We're taking a little break right now. We're going to start back in the fall and we have some awesome people lined up. So, thank you for plugging that. Absolutely. Well, then otherwise I hope you have a good weekend Ethan and I hope we get to do this again. Let's do it soon. Thanks Dave.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 27rDVQMGSs0 (https://youtu.be/27rDVQMGSs0) ===

Hi Dave. I'm super stoked to talk to you about Low Carb Houston. It's just a mere 2 and 1/2 months away. And I'm just so happy that you've come up with this bright idea to make the conference a lot more meaningful to the attendees. So I want you to get right into it and tell me what your plan is so that people can have an additional benefit from coming to the conference. Absolutely. Well, of course you know, I'm very much a fan of blood testing. I'm up to around 121 draws myself. It's a bit overwhelming. But hey, some people can't even get one blood draw that's comprehensive. And that that's kind of the thing is a lot of people come to cholesterolcode.com. They come to a lot of other sites or Facebook groups and they're like, you know, I keep hearing about these lab tests that not a lot of people can get but are spoken about a lot in the low carb community. And a lot of them I think are kind of important. For example, I like to look at inflammation markers. I like to look at metabolic markers and so forth. And so one of probably the most common ones for example is fasting insulin. A lot of people would like to get fasting insulin because it is I think probably the most underrated marker of all. You know it just if I can insert this one thing, a while ago, I want to say 4 or 5 years ago when I saw Ivor Cummins uh talk on cholesterol conundrum, he said if you could just measure only one marker, he'd measure insulin. And I have to agree with him even all this time later learning all these different tests, fasting insulin's a big deal. But a lot of people, especially international concert conference goers, often can't get this themselves. So we had this idea. We had this idea that maybe we could just go ahead and have kind of like a blood testing drive at these conferences at low carb conferences. We've already done it once with low carb San Diego. It went really well. We sold out. Um and now we're actually coming uh to low carb Houston to basically do the same thing. To be sure, um I'm kind of helping to promote and raise awareness for it. It's actually Kim Howerton who's running the entire operation and she just does an absolutely phenomenal job. So, I'm going to tell you real quick what those tests are. The tests are uh you've heard Ivor Cummins for example talk about GGT and ferritin. Those are both really good to look at. Uh there's some common ones which are good to have alongside uh which are CBC and comprehensive metabolic panel. Both of those actually unpack to several other tests. So, it's I want to say uh like 14 for the comprehensive metabolic panel. For CBC, it's something like 8 to 10, something along those lines. Mhm. Another good inflammatory marker and one of my favorites is hs-CRP, a high sensitivity C-reactive protein. Uh and another one that not a lot of people are going to know about uh but that I'm glad we have on board is free fatty acids. This is actually the fatty acids that are not found inside lipoproteins. They're actually found free in your blood which have a lot to do with good things and bad depending on uh you know, what the state of your insulin levels are. Uh another one is glucagon. I don't know if you've seen Ben Bikman's great talk on the glucagon insulin index, but that's uh fantastic. We're It's another thing that we hope we can get more of from the low carb community in particular. And of course hemoglobin A1c just about everybody knows is a marker for prediabetes and is another good one to be looking at. C-peptide alongside insulin is great. See, and many people like C-peptide over fasting insulin in particular. Uh LP little A, which of course Siobhan Huggins will be doing an entire talk on in low carb Houston. I'm really excited about that. And then finally, the biggest and most important one, or at least one that we would consider to be very relevant to us. We're we're a little biased. Excuse me. NMR, nuclear magnetic resonance test, which of course breaks out all of the different lipoprotein subfractions. So, it's it's cholesterol. It's a lipid panel on steroids, if you will. It's not just giving you your LDL and your HDL and your triglycerides and your total. It's also giving you these subfractions. It's giving you your total LDL-P and your small LDL-P and so forth. And basically, all of these because we're kind of doing this as a big group run, we can work out better pricing with LabCorp. So, it's coming in at like two seven or sorry, $297. Uh and yeah, if you were to comparison shop Well, you already know. You order a lot of these tests. If you were to comparison shop online, it's like I mean, online, you can you're probably looking at around somewhere in the neighborhood around $600 or $700. So, if If you get these tests done at a physician, they would the insurance companies charge about two to $3,000. That it wouldn't surprise me. And it's it's the reason a lot of physicians don't order these tests is a lot of these tests, they don't know if the insurance will cover. And frankly, they're kind of right cuz a lot of these tests, the insurance won't cover. So, it's usually better to try to go through a private outfit to make it happen. And I I myself, I I sympathize with people who have a tough time getting this blood work when they want it so much. And so, just it became kind of obvious. Why not go ahead and try to just do the footwork of doing a you know, fully above board legal phlebotomy service. It's, you know, the phlebotomists are bonded and insured and we have all of the medical equipment coming Again, all of this stuff is handled by Kim. She is she is the rock star who makes all of this happen. But uh like with Low Carb San Diego, we're hoping to turn around a lot of people in just two mornings, uh which will be Thursday morning and Friday morning um of your conference. And all they have to do is basically go to the link, schedule which time it is, um get the test, and then basically reserve their slot. As always, as I'm sure you know, I'm I'm very much a fan of being fully fasted. Uh please be water only fasted for 12 to 14 hours before you have that test. And of course, for the days prior to it, try to have a normalish diet so that those labs reflect basically what your current lifestyle is. And that's it. Um you know, a week to 2 weeks later, we'll have all the lab tests back, and then, you know, we basically report it back to the people. And let me just fit in just one more thing. While this is a service to the individual, it's also a service to the community. We hope, and this is where my motivation definitely comes in. We hope that you'll opt in to allow for us to collect your anonymized data to add to the data pool. So, we remove your name, we remove your location, or any additional um specific identifying factors, but we get your demographic information and uh your blood work to have for cross-comparison. And that helps out the community. We don't really have a lot of strong data because this is such a new phenomenon, such a new lifestyle. And I would like for us to be able to have more data that we can provide back for further analysis into also get a better understanding of um what it looks like in the aggregate. Uh I I couldn't agree more. I just wanted to add a couple of things. One is that you are being extremely kind to the physician saying that they're not ordering these tests because it's expensive. I think one major reason why physicians don't order order these tests is because they don't understand the value of about half of these. Um if you went and asked an average physician what is HOMA-IR, homeostatic model of uh insulin resistance, they would have no idea what it is, and they would not know a specific number as to what it means. Um, they are not so clued in in regards to inflammation markers. They're not so clued in with regards to LP-PLA2. And when it comes to NMR lipid profile, looking at particle size, particle number, this is quite foreign territory, I would say, at least to about 75% to 90% of cardiologists. I'm not talking about a regular physician. So, the amount of information that you're getting from these blood tests, and the ability through this conference to figure out and ferret out what a certain value means is an incredibly important information for your health. So, I encourage people to consider this. Use the conference as a tool to gauge your health. And I couldn't be happier that you're actually taking the step to offer this to the community. So, uh, my hat's off to you for doing something like this. Uh, thank you. Well, and and vice versa. Thank you for providing the means for us to be able to make this happen. As you know, we we really want to work with conferences that can help us provide the room and help facilitate to make this, you know, work and and function well. One other thing we're hoping to have, not absolutely certain in this case, but my understanding is you have the conference streaming. And so, what we're hoping is that for those people who are making the appointments, we'll have the main room streaming in the place where they're getting their phlebotomy appointment. That way, they're not going to be missing as much of what's going on inside the conference, uh which I think is kind of important if we can if we can make that happen. Um that's we'll try our best to make that happen so that they're getting their blood drawn, but the conference is being streamed in so you're not missing any of it. I also want to offer to Kim that my office has some excellent phlebotomists, so uh these people are used to drawing blood day in and day out in my office, and she could just hire them for the event instead of trying to figure out where to find a competent phlebotomist who would do a great job. So, um I will uh remain in touch with her and see if I could offer her that service. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, the the only requirement we have is that they're all bonded and insured. Um we we want this to be as absolutely top-level as possible. Um and that's, you know, that's what we're happy with and um doing it up to this point. It's definitely what we want to make as far as the template of this going forward. So, certainly anybody who's coming to Low Carb Houston, you may want to consider this is if this has been a challenge before. Um some people who may actually be just interested in getting their blood drawn, period, uh may want to check into this. But, either way, we're we're excited that this is actually going to be a possibility for some of so many people who you know, who I'm sure you've met at these conferences who have such a tough time trying to get this blood work for themselves. So, in that sense, I'm kind of giddy because I feel like we have more of an answer for these people now. I I couldn't agree more. Um So, I don't know if you want to elaborate a little bit about uh one or two aspects of the blood work, uh uh whether you want to talk a little bit about the inflammation markers, about LP little A, or anything else so that people understand the depth of the blood draw. Well, uh to be sure, I kind of want to keep the video not too long, but I will definitely I will definitely say this, um, and I'm sure you'll agree, there are a lot of markers, certainly one of our personal favorites you and I like to talk about a lot is LDL, uh, which often times have an entirely different context where inflammation is low versus where inflammation is high. And disentangling what that association really means almost always comes back to trying to find out about the root cause. That's what us engineers are always interested in especially, right? So, in the case of why it is that I like inflammatory markers in particular, certainly why Siobhan likes it, why you like it, why Ivor and David Diamond and all these people, why they like it, is because if you do have elevated inflammation and it's not transient, it's not like you're temporarily sick, like it's chronically high, that's something to pay attention to. And you don't even know to continue to to test until you've gotten at least one test where you can observe that these inflammatory markers are high, and I think that that's very important because inflammation is not really the bad guy. It's actually a response to the bad guy. Something that's inside your body for which there's an inflammatory response necessary, particularly if it's in a chronic fashion, is something I think is worth addressing. It's why we, you know, have these as part of the markers, uh, in the first place. A lot It's so in in many ways, a lot of these markers for us robustness is can be, um, good markers for let's investigate further. And that's what I like about, for example, C-reactive protein and fasting insulin. If they're really if they're both really low, you've already kind of cast a pretty wide net for a lot of things both on the metabolic disease state and on the immune response disease state really well. And in that sense, that's why I'm kind of excited about it. Uh, super excited that you're going to put this video on and I happen to record it also. So I'm going to try to get this on on to my YouTube channels and see if we can disseminate this information. Great. Fantastic. Thank you so much.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 7WuFqKOXR94 (https://youtu.be/7WuFqKOXR94) ===

yeah hey man how you doing today good how are you doing good good so today marks the one week of bursary since we did our blood testing drive at low carb USA and a San Diego Jeff fun I did have fun it was a lot of work but I'm really glad it worked out the way it did yeah it's a you know I kinda wanna call it a beta and as with all betas there might have been a few bumps but overall we managed to capture quite a lot of data so we're gonna kind of go through each of the tests that we did sort of why it is that we like it and generally what they do but at the same time before we get started usual caveat we're not medical professionals this is medical advice war chests isn't scientists and we really appreciate the participation of everybody involved and helping us get this data and not just for themselves but also for the value of the community so let's go ahead and go with the first test c-peptide and you know what I'm gonna kind of couple c-peptide and insulin both tests that we got and the reason we like c-peptide insulin is because well frankly it is insulin in particular is the I guess you could say the most muscle of the hormones in your body it is an anabolic hormone and of course hyperinsulinemia is often associated with disease we're working on lots of different things associated with that as are so many other people and trying to better understand insulin resistance yeah in a tweet recently I actually called high insulin a check engine light if it is constantly on I would like to know why and this is also why we like a fasted insulin number I realized that a lot of people maybe not people follow us closely but some people get surprised when we press to have fasted numbers particularly it's say 12 hours or 14 hours and as of yet I've never been able to find anywhere in the literature anything that says why it would be a good idea to have elevated insulin after 12 to 14 hours fasted so that's something to bear in mind now insulin has about a five-hour half-life I believe in c-peptide actually has about a 30-minute half-life and without getting too much into the details c-peptide is closely related to insulin metabolism and in that sense it's kind of it can be in some ways a little more reliable marker because of its longer half-life so that's something we're bearing in mind the other thing to mention is sometimes insulin can be elevated if you are sick I know there was someone at the blood testing drive who was sick at the time of the draw so just keep that in mind if you were sick during that time just be aware it may be wise to retest when you are healthy again absolutely next we're gonna go just an alphabetical order to CBC which stands for complete blood count and we like the more expanded one with the differentials and I'm gonna see if I can pull it up here real quick we're not gonna actually go through all the tests of the CBC because there's actually quite a lot but both Siobhan and I like it because it is a good kind of comprehensive immunological panel there's a lot of goodies in here that something's off if you're sick many different kinds of illnesses we'll start setting off one or more of these markers in many ways the ones we probably look at the most are WBC and RBC which is white blood count and red blood count respectively I'm especially interested in things like neutrophils and and I really like to see if other markers like like hemoglobin are different than what they usually are monocytes things along those lines yeah I would agree with that it is something I keep an eye on again if you're sick it's probably gonna pop up as weird but if you're not sick and it pops up with something I kind of take that for myself as let's investigate further and kind of see what's causing this sign which a lot of these markers are that we're going to be getting into next up we've got the comprehensive metabolic panel I like this for many different reasons but of course I just like like like metabolism for many reasons and the first and most prominent one in the CMP is glucose of course and what the fasted glucose level is is always of great curiosity to us I'm probably more forgiving than most higher than expected glucose reading especially if your lean mass type responder it's very commonly in the 90s for lean mass type responders or even low 100's and I want to pack that too much but I believe this comes down to likely adaptive glucose sparing because often this is coupled with very low insulin very low C peptide which to me suggests that this is by design on the part of the body another one of enormous interest lately is bu n which is short for blood urea nitrogen which I'm going to hand off to Siobhan for she has some good thoughts on that yeah so one thing that's been noted by a couple people Meaghan Ramos is one of them is that she'll sometimes see be un elevated in low car burrs and I've seen this in myself as well sometimes it can be related to hydration status I've heard that a couple times but I also suspect it's relating to protein intake so if you have higher protein intake then they could be higher yeah so what Meghan said she does is if it does come back elevated she double-checks other renal markers EGFR is one of them I believe just to double-check that everything looks normal and then she kind of shrugged it off after that you know it's fascinating about that is I'm just now starting a new carnivore experiment that should if it goes as planned lasts a month and I believe my protein percentage will end up being much higher we'll actually see where it lands because it's an ad libitum experiment but I'll be curious to see if my own bu n changes another couple markers I really like in this panel are ast and alt both are liver enzymes and can often be a high due to a little bit of an inflammatory response but they can they can likewise be they can be elevated and even offset substantially in the case of say something like alcoholism regardless I do think that there's something to keep an eye on and if they're elevated to you know check in to a little bit further yeah another thing to know is that they can be elevated from recent exercise I actually know of someone who had super high numbers and her doctor was kind of freaking out but she was a heavy lifter so she retested without exercise for a week and they did come back normal now CRP is short for c-reactive protein and that's a good segue from what Siobhan just said because c-reactive protein also is an acute phase reactant and it too can be elevated where you've had like intensive exercise however can also be elevated I think if you are dealing with an immunological response especially if it's chronic it's something that you want to be aware of I like it because it's an extremely sensitive needle sure almost anything can set it off so even if it can be high for a good reason such as exercise it can be high for a huge variety of different immune immunological responses it's not prognostic in that way and that it can tell you what the specific origin of it is but in its nonspecific way it actually is a great way to rule out a lot of things with inflammation kind of all at once if it's extremely low generally speaking you just don't have a problem on that front yeah I would agree so we're gonna kind of skip over lipids and get to it at the end because we like to just save the best for last let's go ahead and go to LP little-a which is technically a lipoprotein but for that I feel I just can't say a word without passing it back off to chiffon so lipoprotein little a is considered a cardiovascular risk factor but there are a couple things to know about it just in short for one there can be a genetic baseline so generally what they say is if you have high levels you can test your parents for example and see what their levels are to see if that is the case in that case I would expect a wide variation in just everybody who's gotten tested there does also seem to be a metabolic component just from my own testing so impacted by how much fat you're eating how much fat you're not eating that kind of thing and then the other thing is as far as risk and the studies that I've seen it does seem to also interact with HDL levels or the HDL levels high and then also Framingham risk score and I believe on our report tool you can calculate the Framingham risk score is that correct yes correct yeah so if you have high levels you can use the report tool and see how you stack up on that yeah and all will provide links in the description I would guess and I'd be remiss if I didn't mention that you're also doing a full presentation on the LP little-a at low carb Houston is that right yes that is correct make a lot of people myself included we're gonna be pretty excited about that so moving on let's go ahead and get into free fatty acids which mom mom mom we didn't actually get those markers and apparently they need to be frozen samples and the surface we were using I think just made an honest mistake and that they thought it was and that need to be room-temperature samples so unfortunately we didn't get free fatty acids however that said definitely want free fatty acids in future tests because it's a measure of fat in the blood that is not triglycerides which is to say not carried by lipoproteins is instead carried by the most prominent protein in your bloodstream known as albumin but that's that is something that's very central to the energy model because I would speculate that free fatty acids would be much higher especially for those people are powered predominantly by fat yeah the other thing I've also enjoyed recently looking at is pairing insulin levels with free fatty acid levels if you are insulin sensitive in your fat tissue you would presumably have low levels of free fatty acids compared to the insulin level that you have so if both are elevated I generally find that interesting and something to look at a bit further definitely let's go and move on to ferritin ferritin of course is known as an acute phase reactant and thus it's a good one to go ahead and get is part of the I believe Siobhan you said it's part of your trio your big three yeah my big three inflammatory markers that would be CRP certain and lipoprotein little a right so this will be the the last of the three that we're covering it's of course brought up often in relation to having either excessive amounts suggesting that you have an iron overload or if it's very low that possibly you're anemic and that said Siobhan and I were talking off here before this and we're both a little bit skeptical as to whether that's as cut and dry as we might think we definitely come across a wide variety of different results of ferritin even in spite of people having very comparable diets to each other this includes myself by the way even before I had gone on a low-carb diet my ferritin levels were generally around 500 which was just above range and for a little while after I'd gone low-carb it was closer to like the 700s now it's ultimately found its way slowly down to somewhere in the neighborhood of the 200s and the only thing that I've been able to recall which I've mentioned a few times in some podcasts is that the one thing the one substantial change item is I kind of got in my electrolyte house in order can I consume a lot more salt and other electrolytes right now and I generally feel better and that seems to have been around it may be coincidental it seems to be in around the time that ferritin had gone a little bit lower all of that said there wasn't any other lifestyle change I mean that could make the lower level of ferritin makes sense marie-anne worth worth noting just real quick I also did a blood donation test where I actually tested my ferritin before I donated blood and that access to my ferritin a few days after I donated blood and I didn't actually see a substantial difference that's interesting another thing to mention is ferritin can go up if you have been fasting for quite a long time so when I did my 7 days of fasting and I know you saw a similar Dave that's actually when I saw my highest level if I remember right the other highest level would have been again when I was sick for obvious reasons so I dunno there were a couple people who had come into the blood testing drive very very fasted so that is something to keep in mind as well and yes mine got as high as the nine hundreds that was extraordinary high number in the highest I'd ever had by far when I did the two and a half day fast the only time I've done a multi-day fast yet next we've got GGT which is gamma I always mess this up gamma quit a mile transpeptidase test anyway this test basically is also something that can be associated to damage in the liver in fact oftentimes if you're consuming lots of things that are toxic such as alcohol it's it ends up often getting a lot of doctors will order this as one of the adjunct tests to kind of get a sense of the toxicity that's going on there so it's also a great test to have I definitely recommend Ivor Cummings who talks about GGT and ferritin quite a bit particularly in his own health journey and the things that he was able to discover as well after that we've got glucagon glucagon unfortunately was the other test we didn't fully get that it's probably low priority than most other people but we're certainly interested in it you may remember Ben bickmans fantastic talk from last year in Breckenridge where he talks about the glucagon and insulin index because of course both of them are sort of pulling at each other in a lot of ways glucagon rate goes up means there's more like pollicis more fat released tends to be more common in a fasted state whereas insulin as it comes up glucagon goes down insulin inhibits lipolysis and of course there's many other different things including things associated with the immune response and shavonne you've definitely been reading up a lot on where there are circumstances particularly immunologically where insulin and glucagon could be high together isn't that right yes and I've been seeing this in data from other people as well where they'll have both high insulin and high glucagon at the same time and usually where I'm seeing this is actually in people who are diabetic which is about what I would expect it does seem to also happen with infection but I haven't been able to test that for myself but yeah it is interesting and I definitely want date on it absolutely so a1c may be the one test most people watching us already know enough about it's often a marker for diabetes it's of course the measure of the glycation of the hemoglobin and it's it's supposed to be kind of a three-month average for those of us and I'm sure Sherman's included who actually shell out a little extra money so that we can get it tested frequently we find that no it does kind of move up and down in fact it seems to have if I introduce carbs for one of these card experiments and I flip the switch fairly hard I'll actually see it go from say like a five point six to a six point zero in a matter of days or a week and I've seen that at least a couple times I believe it's also worth noting that there is again just like with any test a range of air some normal fluctuation that's going to go on so occasionally I have seen people who said well I had a five point one before and now I have a five point three things are getting worse I don't know what to do that is probably variation and in that case what I would do is get a follow-up after sometime verify that because sometimes it'll go up and down a little bit just day-to-day week by week trends are the important thing there they definitely are now let's go ahead and talk about our favorite the lipid panel now many people weren't asking why we didn't do an NMR nuclear magnetic resonance test in this which of course can break out the particle sizes there's really a couple reasons one was because it's a bit more expensive and therefore would have added to the total cost the other is Siobhan and I have been more and more of the mind certainly I have that it's not as useful as I would have thought at the beginning of this whole journey look what it comes down to is this if your triglycerides rely on your HDL is high and that's scenario I feel very confident I can pretty closely predict what your particle count will be the reason is because it suggests that there's actually a metabolic reason for the lipids you're showing me right now because you probably are fat adapted and likely insulin sensitive because the high HDL low triglycerides suggest you're probably operating on lower insulin under the curve and therefore as the equation is as the equation goes that I like to mention basically your LDL C can predict your LDL PU by this measure you can take your LDL C multiplied times 10 and whatever that number is it's going to be plus or minus 15% it will be your resulting LDL particle count I've seen this in my own data through now well over as from coming up on 120 tests and shavonne you've now seen it yourself and a number of tests this with us tracking closely against our food so the only time in which they tend to be very offset is if there was a change in the equation inside that five day two three day gap which I don't want to get into the mumbo jumbo but for those of you know the the energy model you know what I'm talking about longer I guess you could say the the short version of this is simply this it's just not as useful as I originally thought it was and a lipid panel really does surprise to at least determine okay are they unlikely and metabolically flexible in mode while being also fat adapted they are okay then the the panel the particle count just isn't going to be as useful and so that's kind of why we opted to go ahead and put in some of these other more interesting tests that I think we'll unpack more for us yeah basically I summon up is often especially in metabolically healthy people in Amar's are redundant compared to the lipid panel so it's not actually providing more information it's just restating the same information in a different way and personally I like redundancy but if I'm someone who's getting a bunch of bloodwork and trying to keep it as inexpensive as possible yeah I'm that's why it was not included now let me go ahead and state what these days pretty much I always look to first in a lipid panel I go straight to dry glycerides triglycerides I consider to be the most important marker you could be looking at in a lipid panel but with the usual caveat that you should not look at any single marker in isolation now insulin and tried list they're super relevant in my opinion to this larger story of where your metabolism is at and of course triglycerides are telling a story about how much your energy stores are making it into the tissue they're designed for so once again in the context of having 12 to 14 hours of a fasted state I would expect that you had a lot of energy part into your tissues and for that matter that it's utilizing it fairly well your triglycerides are extraordinarily high and that circumstance and I typically think there's a problem and we have a great article I don't want to go through all the different touch points now but for those people who don't already know you can go to cholesterol cocom slash high - T G and there we actually have four different criteria that tend to be something we like everybody to look towards in case they do have high triglycerides a close second is HDL HDL being of course high-density like high density lipoprotein cholesterol levels and what do you think about HDL do you think that's a pretty important marker survive yes but it does require some context so I'm actually a good example of this for a long time even on keto my HDL levels were pretty low I started out with it at 33 and usually it's recommended for women to have it above 50 but over time it has come up so generally when I see low HDL on a panel the first question I ask is what's your history has it always been that low or did it suddenly go down if it's suddenly gone down and there's not really any dietary change that could explain it and usually with that it's lower fat then I kind of want to investigate more see what's causing that yeah persistently low levels as far as the studies I've read you know it could be genetic it could be coming back from something it's something I kind of give time and keep an eye on yeah and then there is some controversy over you know high HDL associated with higher mortality but I have actually read those studies a few times at this point and generally what they're correlating with in that case is alcohol intake because chronic alcohol consumption can artificially raise HDL and that if you're chronically drinking a lot of alcohol it's not surprising your mortality is higher as Siobhan wall knows I actually get very frustrated about this I think it's it's there's words I could use that I'm not going to use but I'll just say that I I find it unacceptable to have any study that's making an association of HDL with mortality that doesn't account for that extraordinarily commonly known confounder of high HDL with alcoholism so that's that's certainly something I I think everybody should feed mindful of now of course the one that we get asked about the most is LDL and the interesting thing about this is as Siobhan wall knows as many people have been following my more recent risk presentations knows at this point before recently I would have said that LDL is just much less relevant to triglycerides and HDL ironically while I'm not making a claim of causality ironically higher LDL when grouped with high HDL and low triglycerides tends to have a better outcome then lower LDL again this is associative not a claim of causality but with that said that does mean that at a minimum that's it's a little more of a full-frontal challenge to the existing lipid hypothesis hypothesis as it stands for more on that you can just you can just google Dave Feldman and salt lake and you'll find the presentation I did recently where I kind of talked about this I unpack it a bit more but needless to say LDL is fascinating to me but per the energy model I think that there's actually a metabolically rational reason that could be higher particularly when HDL is high and check this red Zullo right the other small note I wanted to make for LDL levels is that reverse correlation with higher LDL and lower mortality is consistent across the board with women in general yes can't be missed so we're going to kind of wrap here but I do want to emphasize I'm sure many people could think of other tests that they would like to add to our package certainly we can we've had many that we had to kind of ferret in and out and we may possibly see if we can add one or two more but at the same time bear in mind that we're trying to make this affordable to everybody we're trying to negotiate a really good price with LabCorp so that when we do these blood testing drives we can get as many people participating that would like to as they can and knock on wood we may or may not be talking to some other future conferences to see if this is something that we could get I'm moving forward to help out anybody one small note that I just thought of right now on insulin some people I wouldn't be surprised if they have insulin flagged because it's low this is not surprising so insulin can be low on low carb you're eating less carbs insulin is possibly less necessary in that case in that case I think most of the concern is just you know type 1 diabetes but c-peptide is also there if you are making c-peptide you know that's a good indicator you're not type 1 diabetic but yeah just in case people saw that on theirs if they do get it back with that keep in mind it can happen especially with lean mass type responders they're often in like the 1 or 2 range and yes this isn't to say that it can't be possible that some that it could be letting you know about adult onset type 1 diabetes it's possible that said I will say I've seen so many lean mass type responder panels by now I know Siobhan has as well where they have rock-bottom insulin levels and just about everything else metabolically is singing including even though they including what I just mentioned earlier they may have higher fasting glucose but not type 1 diabetic higher fasting glucose we're talking again like low 100s at the max and yet they I mean everything else just falls in line so I myself I'm not very concerned about having very low insulin levels I I actually it's going to be associated with greater longevity me personally so I think we're going to wrap it here I think should thank you so much for joining me Siobhan and we will catch up with you guys again next time yep see ya

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: lJdHFC9H7YU (https://youtu.be/lJdHFC9H7YU) ===

greetings everyone I'm talking to you from my family's house as I'm actually visiting them for the holidays this experiment was entirely unexpected and I didn't intend to do it but I have some powerful new data that I want to share as soon as I had gotten to a point where I can verify it very strongly it's actually pretty jaw-dropping I'm kind of calling this for the moment the triglyceride carryover effect and this is seemingly a bit unusual for me because I've already got a lot of cross data comparison and seems to have appeared primarily while I've been very low card and on carnivore diet as many of you know I started on December 17th eating carnivore and then to go for 30 days the you know the versions of beef or in many forms for example you can see I've got hamburger patties and roast beef and all beef hot dogs and of course steaks and about 10 days in on the 27th I took my lipids for the first time but before I show you that I want to show you some possible confounders to what you're about to see first of all is my sleep my sleep generally averages around 5.5 hours a night however I'm a very efficient sleeper it's usually around 94 to 97 percent efficiency and I get plenty of REM and deep sleep in that time while this is not usual for me this is of course unusual for most people stress wise I've had a few developments that are really good news but have cost me a bit of call to action stress and I thought I'd go ahead and share that exercise this is a little unusual because I've been getting my usual 2.5 miles of walking in each day while on this family visit initially this was due to a bit of cold and snow and then once this data started rolling in I realized that I wanted to keep all variables the same so I basically remained generally sedentary - of course I'm walking around with family on various events and so forth so this was it this was my ten days in mourning triglycerides now my total cholesterol and my HDL remains relatively stable throughout this experiment so I'm gonna kind of leave them off and mainly focus just on triglycerides triglycerides of 221 is certainly very high for me I all but never see this kind of number in fact I think the only two times I've seen it was once when I was doing the 2.5 day fasting and the other time was when I was doing the resistance I'm sorry the white bread and processed meats experiment so needless to say if I even when I wake up for the times that I have done wake up testing triglycerides are usually below 100 so this was of course very surprising to me I went ahead and reconfirmed it with the second test a few minutes later however about three and a half hours later roughly I went ahead and tested again my triglycerides were now falling below 100 this is pretty pretty exciting new data when you think about it I started I woke up with this number and then I end up just a few hours later with this number and I had done nothing in between no exercise no food only drinking water and mainly chatting with my family so on the next day I was very curious to see if this would happen again and sure enough I wake up with 246 milligrams per deciliter at at 5:30 and the graph will kind of help show this a little bit better basically it held for one hour and then starts precipitously going down basically 1 2 3 4 hours later is when it finally gets to under a hundred at around 9:30 5:00 a.m. all right well this this means that certainly there's a phenomenon happening it does look as if it's being reproduced but the thing that kept coming back to me was 246 that looks like a bolus number as in that looks like a triglyceride number you would get right after you ate a fatty meal this is this is a whole bunch of triglycerides just now installed into my bloodstream from having just eaten mat from having just woken up so I then determined to go ahead and add a few more data points starting with and you can see in all these columns I'll walk you through it I wanted to take the time of the supper from the night before I wanted to compare that with the time that I fell asleep and you can see that time between supper and sleep is for over 16 minutes I didn't wanted to determine how much I slept five five hours three minutes and then add that together basically both of these together so that we can see we come up with about nine hours in 19 minutes from when I had my last supper I'm missing it either and my waking triglyceride says and if I had a bite of steak from the night before in my last meal this is the amount of time it was between that and when I woke up and took my triglycerides for the first time finally I wanted to add before I went to sleep what my triglycerides were hopefully just before I fell asleep and in this case I took that around 1124 and sure enough my my triglycerides so this was very surprising was 2:30 again this is four hours later so I'm sending it 230 milligrams per deciliter triglycerides I go to sleep and sure enough I wake up with higher triglycerides even if it's down by 80 points it's still quite a lot and you can see in the graph here now with what it was before I went to sleep now I go to sleep now I wake up a one forty nine and one two three hours later we see that I'm now down to 92 at 8:01 a.m. so this is kind of exciting now I go and add just a few more metrics for this next day this time my suppers a bit later this is closer to 8:00 p.m. and I fall asleep a little bit closer to midnight but generally speaking it's still about three hours and 50 minutes between when I start my supper and when I end up going to sleep but this time around I went ahead and took my lipids just before I ate supper my triglycerides were already elevated at 206 I then took a two hour later test and they were still elevated at 194 pretty much hardly changed at all and then finally I go to sleep it's basically identical to what it was right before I had eaten so that's extremely relevant information because now when you go back and you look at it of course I wake up with a little bit higher levels however this time around it's a little bit serendipitous because even though I started to his six from the night before I wake up 2056 this time it takes me exactly one hour at 6:16 a.m. I'm now down to 88 but the heck of it I went ahead and did one more test with it later and it was at 94 okay so I finally managed to fit in one where I added a little more lag time there were some complications to where I couldn't make it too early again I'm I'm here visiting family and stuff so I'm trying to work with them and God bless them for working with me on this this has been kind of there but the supper from the night before is 1840 which is actually 6:40 p.m. and the time I fell asleep is a little bit a little bit further along it wasn't like right at midnight but basically now you can see that it's four hours 42 minutes plus time slept this is a little bit longer it's about nine hours and 54 minutes and with all of that said I end up with triglycerides of 108 and I wake up with 50 mine so kind of a boring graph here because pretty much I went to sleep with low amount I wake up with a lower amount substantially so all right this led me of course to want to do just two more days highly structured and let's face it it's one of the worst days this could have happened this is this is New Year's Eve this is new Tuesday but it had to happen I want to replicate this so I could get this out to you guys as soon as possible we were already meeting at a Perkins where I ordered these three burgers took careful track that I captured the data for them and at 3:30 I had two all-beef hot dogs and then at 8 p.m. I had a steak now the reason I did it this way is because since the last test I had I had woken up with very low levels of triglycerides I wanted the very next day of the sister experiment to start with the high anticipated triglyceride levels by eating the meal later and that's what we were about to see in a moment but it's sister day January 1st I did everything exactly the same except that I had that same exact steak just a little bit earlier just a little bit earlier than last time by about two hours so this is the first sister day this is the 31st and as you can see I went to I went to sleep with 172 and I wake up with 171 178 and it precipitously drops until I'm down to 81 at 8:40 4 a.m. so 1 2 3 4 hours the sister day for the day after where I had a little bit more lag time I unfortunately failed at fully executing the experiment as intended so while it's true I did eat at 6 the time that I slept was a little bit shorter the problem was was that I even though I took even a 2 hour postprandial unfortunately I fell asleep at 11:30 even though I intended to stay up until midnight so I ended up with half hour extra of sleep for the sister day I don't think that that was too much of a confounder but it might have been I don't know and I wake up at a substantially lower triglyceride number at 110 which then drops 88 and then 81 by 6:20 so the experiment effectively worked really well I was actually very happy with it now I'd like to take you through a few graphs that are gonna seem a little geeky but I'll really walk you through it they're sort of important in order to illustrate the correlation this first one is the time between supper and sleep as in when I start the meal and when I actually go to sleep versus my waking triglycerides and on this axis is the triglycerides on this axis is the time and so as you can see when you throw them into a scatter plot as more time passes my waking triglyceride numbers are generally lower from when I wake up and take them now again this is the time between when I start my meal and when I start to go to sleep so often it ends up being a fairly small amount of time anywhere between I guess in this case was around three hours too close to five and a half hours but that regression is actually pretty impressive 0.58 regression is actually fairly impressive now let's go ahead and add the sleep time as well so this is the time between the last supper and my waking triglyceride levels straight up in other words this includes both the gap from when I started to eat and when I started to go to sleep and then includes also the time in which I slept itself and this regression is even a little bit better it's at point six four and I wouldn't be surprised that this turns out to be the case that basically from that the total fasted time is effectively what we're looking at here when I last ate - when I get my triglycerides taken for the first time now I wanted to go ahead and throw all of my data points all 35 of them onto one scatterplot so this includes not only the triglycerides I took when I woke up but it also includes the triglycerides taken for each hour following and so forth it's something definitely emerged that I believe is extremely relevant to help illustrate this I'm going to go ahead and throw on a line this red line is being drawn right at the amount of time of 12 hours in other words but for 12 hours this is a shorter amount of time before getting my triglycerides and after 12 hours it's longer as in post 12 hours and I'm gonna impose one more line on the other axis on the triglycerides axis so this is right at the 100 and as you can see if the amount of time that I was fasted coming into any of these triglyceride readings was more than 12 hours then it was below 100 milligrams per deciliter triglycerides 100% of the time all of these didn't matter what the circumstances were if the last meal that I ate the first bite of the last meal I ate from the night before was 12 hours from when my blood was tested for lipids it it was and all of these data points almost a surefire bet that it was going to be below 100 milligrams per deciliter and that's pretty relevant particularly as you look over to side of this line and that not only does it spread out a bit more which is part of how it's starting to lose its correlation but then actually we're talking a very small amount of time like this is it 10 hours and 48 minutes and you still have plenty of these guys that are coming up a bit higher than you would have expected for example this one is close to 200 milligrams per deciliter and that's it that's at just one hour before at 11 at 11 hours as opposed to the 12 that's really relevant to me and I think in a lot of ways this is sort of opened my eyes to we've been giving advice and at cholesterol code it's totally non medical advice but basically following what it was their original guidelines were and that we like we like people to be fasted for at least 12 to 14 hours before they get a cholesterol test but there's many times where people said well you know as close to like 10 hours I mean does that matter that much and I've always thought no I feel that's probably not that big of a deal as long as it's close to 12 to 14 hours it's fine this is the most compelling data that I've looked at that no actually twelve hours really should be like the starting point it should be a minimum of 12 hours or more if in fact more this data looks to be the same but I can't know for sure because the systole an end of one even for as many of these tests as I've done punch by the way my fingers hurt so much I've had to take so much blood out of each of them from like every sides just had to fit that in this is this has been not the way I thought I'd be spending the holidays anyway let's go ahead and talk about replication now this is the first time of its kind that I'm doing this I'm putting this data forward in a sort of preliminary manner because my hope is that some people will find interest in doing replication so if you wish to conduct this experiment this will help to verify these findings however and this is key this is not medical advice use at your own risk and abort at any point if you feel there is any concern or illness of any kind this is super important to bear in mind consider having two or more days that are identical and what is eaten ideally back-to-back which you saw with my sister days that's the the best way to do it is to have everything variable controlled for and then just have the one thing change the change is only in the timing of the final meal of the day so that basically you're tweaking about how long it was from when you had the meal to when you get your first fasting test and then with a device like a cardio check or any other home lipid device record the lipids upon awakening and continue testing each hour until triglycerides are below one hundred milligrams per deciliter it's extremely relevant and very important you you want to actually see if you can capture the slope as it happens with your data of course keep careful track of mealtimes sleep times and testing times it's all super relevant for this experiment you have to be able to be disciplined to do so and of course please report this data back to cholesterol code comm we'll be reporting this in an upcoming post I'm actually just going to do this video for now but eventually I'd like to do a post which includes this video and includes much of the data that may end up being submitted for us thank you so much for your time and I hope you guys are all having a great holiday

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 75rMfMd8RA0 (https://youtu.be/75rMfMd8RA0) ===

hi guys Dave Feldman here again and I'm actually about a day into an experiment I originally intended to start this video before I started the experiment to announce it but I had to make a kind of adjustment and I'll explain why in a moment so effectively I've never been able to do an additive experiment and I think this may be the last big one that I do before my talk low-carb wreck basically any time I played with energy status as was predominant through my face to my research I did swapping so for example I'd be on a high-fat diet and then keeping at it about the same calories I would drop out the fat and replace it with calories from carbohydrates in almost all cases it would be grains but in some cases I did it with bananas over the summer well this time around I kind of wanted to make it a little more buzz worthy so instead of doing something that's typically related back to being healthy bananas and grains both being healthy I was going to do it with something like candy or desserts and so for this experiment I was thinking I would do it with chocolate chip cookies so I was going to do five days of a keto shake keeping it exactly even morning noon and night and then do three days of an intervention period but instead of swapping out the fat for carbs it would be strictly additive which is to say I would keep the same amount of calories or from the shaky be the same them out of the shake through those three days but I had then meat padding in the carbohydrates and in this case in the form of sugar right then finally I would have a five-day aftermath period so we could actually see what happens in that last stage so if we were to break this out in two stages the first stage being the washout period stage one the second stage being the intervention period and the third stage being the aftermath my hypothesis was that the lipid panels that I would get for stage 1 would be higher than what they would be for stage 3 that the intervention period even though I actually added sugar would bring up my energy status and therefore a result in lower LDL cholesterol for stage 3 however I ran into problem over the course of today and I actually realized that this was this had a problem which is that if I did do chocolate chip cookies they do in fact have some amount of dietary fat because they do in because the stage one of my research phase one of my research has to do with the inversion pattern it could be possible that the dietary fat was the reason that my cholesterol could come down in stage 3 of this experiment therefore I needed to have some form of sugar that had no tight area that so I decided I might go with candy but there's a problem with candy with me in particular I have fructose malabsorption which I discovered that I had long before I go on a ketogenic diet fructose malabsorption means of course you experience gut pains and so forth when you have a large amount of fructose especially high fructose corn syrup so I thought maybe I could do sucrose in the form of table sugar but of course that too is still fructose but maybe not as bad as high fructose corn syrup however sugar water I don't think would be quite as buzz worthy is if I actually did something that's like kind of a commercial level candy so to change up pretty straightforward I will be still doing the ickey to shake all day tomorrow and the day after but following that on Tuesday I'll be having candy all day and right now I'm thinking it'll probably end up being skittles if I make it to the end of the day I don't feel nausea I don't feel extraordinarily debilitating gut pain from the fructose malabsorption I'm gonna try to chuck it through for the next two days and then I'll actually be able to start the washout period and we'll get to see if in fact my LDL cholesterol gets lower this is somewhat exciting to me because virtually all the experiments I've done for kind of built on something else that I've seen hints of this is the first time I'm doing a truly additive experiment and I don't have any predictions for the intervention phase as to what will happen to my lipids and even with the hypothesis that I have for the last stage I know that there can be also other possible things that could impact it the other direction for example I may bring about more de novo lipogenesis because I have a lot of overage of the total amount of sugar relative to my maintenance level with fat so it's hard to say for sure but that's all the reason more why it could be that much more exciting so with that said wish me luck because unfortunately if Tuesday doesn't go very well I'm gonna have to cancel the experiment because if I get especially sick then obviously the data won't be as valuable thank you for watching of course like comment subscribe but more than anything else thank these people because without their individual donations I couldn't be doing this

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: ZQHztlN1Yls (https://youtu.be/ZQHztlN1Yls) ===

I should on how are you I'm good how are you doing I'm good I'm good I wanted to share with you a little bit of a pet peeve that's definitely come up a lot lately I don't know if you were aware that the guidelines have changed regarding fasting with lipids were you aware of that yes I have heard this come up and I don't know if you were also aware I think you are because I think I'd complain to you quite a bit that this is quite a problem especially for those of us in the low-carb community yes so I just happen to have some amazing news that I hadn't revealed until this point in time that actually I've already done an experiment that dovetailed on my last major experiment where following my very last lipid number that was fully fasted I had been passing for about 12 hours I then immediately had a fat shake that was full of heavy whipping cream and was sweetened with stevia and was unsweetened cocoa powder and that's it I had that and then about two and a half hours later I had my blood drawn again now for to believe the existing guidelines that wouldn't have had that much of a meaningful effect on my cholesterol numbers right right so if you were to guess right now would you say that my lipid number has changed at all changed a little bit or changed a lot um I would say considering you were drinking pure almost pure fat I would guess that had a pretty significant impact now part of the reason I did a fat shake was some people might argue that maybe fat takes a little bit longer to be absorbed by the cells if it was mixed in with other food that for example had fiber if it was mixed in with other food that might have carbohydrates so sometimes when you have lots of carbs with fat that and further slow the uptake of the fatty acids in the vascular system so I did intentionally have a fairly fast absorbing version of fat on purpose for this very reason so you also may or may not be aware that chylomicrons were told will be absorbed within a matter of minutes mm-hmm and I regularly say in my presentation that it could be minutes to hours depending on who you read it's sure enough I've always been a bit suspicious as to whether or not indeed even in the pure liquid fat form we would see them being absorbed super fast so I was very happy to be able to get this experiment down while I had already had not only the cardio check to be able to check my blood but to actually have full lab tests pulled from a phlebotomist so here are the results of those numbers now this first set i've already revealed in a blog post which is that my cholesterol my total cholesterol was 211 and my calculated LDL came down all the way to 113 mm-hmm my triglycerides were 146 which I did kind of expect coming to the very end of this experiment and that impacts the calculated LDL my HDL cholesterol was 69 now what changed two and a half hours later well actually my total cholesterol had gone to 220 again the prior score was 211 what do you suppose happen to my triglycerides I would guess they shot up but I'm not sure how much the original score is 146 taking a wild guess just for fun um 300 that's very close triglycerides went to 270 Wow from 146 to 270 two and a half hours later when I had my blood drawn my HDL cholesterol we moved it went from 69 to 68 and the kicker my LDL cholesterol dropped from 113 to 98 now holding the record for the lowest LDL cholesterol I have but there's a catch why haven't I been bragging about this low LDL cholesterol because triglycerides are part of the Freid world equation that calculates the LDL cholesterol and that's why I know that that's kind of a virtual number and that's why often times you see people with very high triglycerides with amazingly lower LDL cholesterol and doctors going ah you're good enough right there the larger moral of this story is fast please fast especially if you were our low-carb er coming into a lipid test because if you're having a fatty meal you were physically increasing the triglycerides in your bloodstream this is not speculative this is simple molecular accounting that's actually what you are physically doing it goes into your gut it gets packaged ultimately into chylomicrons in your bloodstream now the total residence time that could get discussed and argued about but the one thing that I think nobody disagrees on no matter who you read is that if you wait at least 12 hours you can be pretty confident you'll have no remaining chylomicrons which are the low-density lipoproteins that come from food you eat you'll only have the lipoproteins that come from your liver the vldls ultimately remodeling to LDLs and therefore you'll have a more consistent reading with your other lipid scores it's playing with fire to have food within any reasonable range especially if it's fatty food within any reasonable range from your your blood draw the lipid test agreed 12 to 14 hours that's that's what I tend to suggest yes I would say at a bare bare minimum eight hours I'm really kind of punchy about this I'd really like forever it it's you know just make sure the last meal that you had from the night before is twelve hours time from when you get your blood draw the morning after you're gonna sleep through most of your fast so it should be relatively easy and particularly found a low carb high fat diet agreed thank you for watching of course like comment subscribe but more than anything share to those people especially in the low carb community who may be taking cholesterol tests not realizing how important it is that they fast before them
