

=== VIDEO: OCddz_0NrEE (https://youtu.be/OCddz_0NrEE) ===

If you could pill up what vigorous intensity exercise does, it would be the biggest anti-aging blockbuster out there. After these 2 years of exercise, they measured their hearts, you know, of course they measured at baseline, and their hearts grew and become and became more flexible. So much that was reversed about 20 years of aging. So, their hearts actually looked like a 30-year-old heart rather than a 50-year-old heart. This was after 2 years of this intense exercise training protocol. There's no reason to go in a 212° F sauna. I think, you know, 190 max. Like, that's that's that's hard. 190 is hot. I go I do 180 personally. Um but, I think that's important because I know if you go on Instagram, there's a lot of influencers that are going really really hot, and I just don't think that's a great idea. So excited to be here. Um boy, it was great. I woke up this morning, bright light exposure first thing in the morning. We set my circadian rhythm, elicit the cortisol response, right? Get that serotonin, inhibit melatonin. Um what a great place to have a conference. So, thank you to the organizers for inviting me. Excited to be here. Uh today, we're going to talk about some behavioral strategies that I think are very important for improving the way we age and the way we feel. I mean, these things go hand in hand, right? So, we're going to talk about the power of vigorous intensity exercise. We're going to talk about using thermal [snorts] stress in the form of deliberate heat exposure and deliberate cold exposure to really improve the way we age. And so, just to give you a heads-up of what we're going to discuss, we're going to get into exercise and particularly a vigorous type of exercise, and we're going to talk about cardiorespiratory fitness. We're going to talk about brain aging, reversing heart aging. And then, we're going to talk about exercise snacks. Then, we're going to get into deliberate heat exposure with a big focus on regular hot saunas. We're going to talk about being, you know, it being an exercise mimetic. We're going to talk about heat shock proteins, Alzheimer's disease. We're going to talk about infrared saunas versus hot baths versus regular hot sauna saunas as well. And then, we're going to get into some of the cold exposure data, and we're going to talk a lot about some of the hormonal responses, some of the effects on the brain, on metabolism and muscle. And then, we'll get into some protocols as well. So, let's get started, and I like to start with this slide because if you could pill up what vigorous intensity exercise does, it would be the biggest anti-aging blockbuster out there. So, when I say vigorous intensity exercise, what I'm talking about here is the kind of exercise that you do and you can't really have a conversation while you're doing it. You're really putting in some hard effort. So, you just you're really not able to talk while you're doing that kind of exercise. If you wear a heart rate monitor, it's the kind of exercise where you're about 80% your max heart rate or greater. That's the kind of exercise that when I say vigorous intensity, that's what I'm talking about today. And I want to start by talking about cardiorespiratory fitness. So, cardiorespiratory fitness is often measured by something called a VO2 max. You've probably heard of this. VO2 max is really just the maximal amount of oxygen that you can take up during maximal exercise. Cardiorespiratory fitness has really become a very very important biomarker of our healthspan and lifespan. So, there've been countless studies now, and this study I'm showing you here is showing it's stratifying people based on their cardiorespiratory fitness and their life expectancy. And what they did it shows is that people that have a low cardiorespiratory fitness, if they can move anywhere above that low, even to a low normal, they're still low, but they're on a nor low normal range, that's associated with a 2-year increase in life expectancy. And if you compare people from the low to the high, that's about a 5-year increase in life expectancy. And there've been other studies that have actually analyzed if you can improve your VO2 max, your cardiorespiratory fitness, from what each for each unit that you improve it, so a unit is actually 1 ml per kilogram per minute, that is associated with a 45-day extension in life expectancy. So, for each unit you go up and you increase it, that's 45 days added to your lifespan. Why is VO2 max important? I mean, if you think about VO2 max, your cardiorespiratory fitness, it's you know, we're talking about measuring it when we're doing maximal exercise, but really, you know, everything we do relies on our cardiorespiratory fitness, even just sitting still. Just to sit still and breathe, it takes about 3 ml per kilogram per minute of oxygen. When I'm just having a conversation, like me up here on stage talking to you guys, that takes about 11 ml of um per kilogram body weight per minute of oxygen, right? So, as we're aging, we we we start with our with our cardiorespiratory fitness, and there's things we can do to get high, right? And that's where we want to be. But, as we're aging, we kind of head towards this cliff. We're going down. Our cardiorespiratory fitness declines with age. And so, you want to really bank in all you can and improve your cardiorespiratory fitness early on because you want to be higher up because you will reach that cliff. You just want to reach it at a later time point, right? There was a study that was published a few years back in JAMA, and I really like this study because it showed that there really didn't seem to be an upper limit in the benefits for improving cardiorespiratory fitness. So, people that were at like the elite, the top 2% the elite level for their cardiorespiratory fitness, they had a 80% lower all-cause mortality than people that were low cardiorespiratory fitness. Not a big surprise. But, even people that had a high cardiorespiratory fitness, we're talking like the top quarter percent of the of the participants, the [snorts] elite people still had a 20% lower all-cause mortality compared to those people with a high. I mean, these are healthy people, a high cardiorespiratory fitness. But, what was so fascinating about this study was that researchers looked at biomarkers that could predict mortality. And so, they looked at things like type 2 diabetes, smoking, cardiovascular disease. These things, of course, pre- predicted a lower life expectancy, right? A higher all-cause mortality. However, a low cardiorespiratory fitness actually predicted better. So, in fact, people with a low cardiorespiratory fitness had a lower life expectancy than even people with type 2 diabetes or even people smoking. So, in other words, having a low cardiorespiratory fitness was like smoking in terms of life expectancy. And people don't think about that. We think about all these diseases. We talk a lot about type 2 diabetes. We talk a lot about, you know, cardiovascular disease, how terrible it is for your health, how bad smoking is, but nobody's talking about how terrible being sedentary is, not being physically active. It is a disease, and it should be treated as a disease. We really need to think about our cardiorespiratory fitness. We need to think about how important it is. We're supposed to be moving and improving that cardiorespiratory fitness. So, how do we improve it? Endurance aerobic exercise is one of the best ways to improve cardiorespiratory fitness. However, vigorous intensity exercise is actually better. And we know this because there have been multiple studies, and there've been meta-analyses of these studies looking at people that actually do the physical activity requirements, the guidelines that are out there. So, this is about 2 and 1/2 hours per week of moderate intensity physical activity. So, this is the type of exercise that you do that's aerobic, and [snorts] you can kind of have a you can talk while you're doing it, but you're very breathy. So, you're really not at that intense level where you're pushing really hard, but you're you're getting physical activity. About 40% of people doing that 2 and 1/2 hours per week cannot improve their cardiorespiratory fitness. They're so-called non-responders, unless they engage in vigorous intensity exercise, particularly high-intensity interval training. So, that's the kind of exercise where you're doing short bouts, intervals of high intensity. So, it could be anywhere from 20 seconds long to 30, maybe a minute long interval where you're going hard, and then you have a period of recovery. When those individuals that did not respond to just normal moderate intensity exercise engage in high-intensity interval training, they're able to improve their cardiorespiratory fitness. And it's thought the reason for that is because, you know, cardiorespiratory fitness, you're you're you're transport- porting um oxygen. You're breathing it in, your lungs are taking it in, and then your vascular system is transporting it to other tissues like the muscle, um the brain, right? It's [snorts] It's thought that the harder the stress that you're putting, the greater the ad- adaptation. So, your body is responding to a greater amount of stress when you're going harder, when you're working out harder. There's a variety of protocols out there that have been shown to actually improve cardiorespiratory fitness. I like to talk about probably one of the hardest ones. Uh it's called the Norwegian 4 by 4. This The reason it's called that is because the Norwegian ski team uses it as part of their training protocol. And what it is is you for 4 minutes, this is a 4-minute interval where you're going as hard as you can, not all out, as hard as you can and maintain for that entire 4 minutes. And it takes a little bit of try and trial and error to figure out what that intensity is. It's going to be you're going to be it's going to be hard, but you're not going all out. That would be impossible. And then you and then you do light exercise, very very light exercise. You let your heart rate go down and recover for 3 minutes. And you do that four times. So it's 4 by 4. And um this protocol has been shown in countless studies to improve the VO2 max. Now there's other ways to improve your cardiorespiratory fitness. You can do a 1-minute on, 1-minute off, even 20 seconds on, 10 seconds off. I mean, whatever works for you. I think the most important thing here is what are you going to do? What are you going to do on a weekly basis? What are you going to be able to do? What do you like to do? That's the most important. You don't necessarily have to do the 4 by 4. I do this once a week. Um I think it's great if you can, but you don't necessarily have to. Um >> [snorts] >> if you haven't gotten a VO2 max test, like that's where you go into a lab and you wear one of those masks, you get on treadmill or on a stationary bike and you're doing like, you know, 15 minutes of running as fast as you can for the entire 15 minutes. Pretty brutal if anyone's done it. Um you can you can estimate your own VO2 max actually by by using any type of a wearable device that tracks your distance and your heart rate. And so it's called the 12-minute uh run test. And basically what you're doing is you're running for 12 minutes on a flat surface. It has to be flat. And you're you're you're calculating your distance. And there's an equation you can look up called the Cooper test, the Cooper equation, and it'll help you convert your it'll estimate your VO2 max essentially. And that's a pretty good way to do that. I like I want to take a minute here. We're going to talk about that Norwegian 4 by 4 again as part of this this protocol that was done by a Dr. Ben Levine at UT Southwestern in Dallas. Um he's probably one of the world's leading experts in cardio cardiovascular exercise, cardiologist, exercise physiology. He studies how the heart ages and how we can reverse that aging through different lifestyle strategies and also what accelerates that aging as well. So he's looking at both ends of the spectrum. And um just generally speaking, what what happens to our heart with as we age? Well, a lot of things. I'm not going to spend hours discussing that. You probably have other people here talking about that. But generally speaking, as we age, our heart shrinks and it gets stiffer. It's stiffer with age. Um and that's not a very good thing for cardiovascular health. You want your heart to be flexible. You want to be able to respond to stressful situation situations. You don't want your heart to be stiffer. And so what Ben um set out to do was try to see if he could reverse some of this shrinking and stiffening of the heart in people that are middle-aged. They're 50-year-olds that didn't have any identifiable diseases other than the fact that they were sedentary. So they had one disease, as I just mentioned. Sedentary being sedentary is a disease. Um but they didn't have any other diseases. They just weren't physically active. And [snorts] he separated these 50-year-olds into two groups, one with the treatment group, one with the sham control group. The treatment group underwent a 2-year pretty intense exercise training protocol. Where at the end of the 2 years, they were exercising for about 5 hours a week. A large portion of that was vigorous intensity exercise. They were doing the Norwegian 4 by 4 once a week. But they didn't start out there. It was a progressive workup, right? You can't just take someone that's not ever worked out in the gym and then start them on the 4 by 4 and doing 5 hours a week, right? So they progressively worked up to that point. The sham control was kind of like yoga-ish stretching, you know, enough where they thought they were getting a treatment, but it wasn't actually the treatment. After these 2 years of exercise, they measured their hearts, you know, of course they measured at baseline, and their hearts grew and become and became more flexible. So much that it was reversed about 20 years of aging. So their hearts actually looked like a 30-year-old heart rather than a 50-year-old heart. This was after 2 years of this intense exercise training protocol. And I love this study uh because it really shows one that it's never too late, and these were 50-year-olds, they're in middle middle age, and two, that you really have control of the way your heart ages, right? I mean, this is pretty I would say unbelievable that you can actually after just 2 years of really putting in effort, reverse the aging of your heart by about 20 years. The control group, I mean, they they didn't have any of this, by the way. And yoga's great, but it just isn't going to reverse the structural aging changes in your heart. We also know that exercise has massive effects on the brain. So it's an immediate cognitive enhancer. So you can just do a 10-minute bout of vigorous intensity exercise. Again, you're getting that you're putting in that effort, and you can improve reaction time, executive function. I mean, there was actually a 14% increase in cognitive performance in this cohort that just did 10 minutes. I do 10 minutes of exercise like before almost any talk I give, anything anything I'm doing that requires my brain to be working. 10 minutes, everybody has 10 minutes, right? And it's amazing how you feel after that. We know that vigorous intensity exercise rewires the brain almost immediately. So it actually, like I said, it speeds up reaction time, especially on executive function tasks. It improves working memory. It improves impulse control. So, you know, if you have a lot of tabs open, you're not going to be going to the social media or you're not going to be getting on X or Instagram or whatever. You know, so it helps you with that impulse control. I mean, these are all I would say little hacks that most of most of us in here that are also high performers, you know, you're taking care of yourself and your patients, but we're also high performers. So it's it's kind of really important to kind of use some of these tools that we can to just improve our impulse control and our cognitive function as well. Why is vigorous intensity exercise so good for the brain? And I keep saying vigorous because when you are working really hard, you're forcing your energy system to produce energy quicker than your mitochondria, which are the little organelles inside of your cells that are essentially mostly responsible for producing energy, can can can keep up with. And so essentially you can't get oxygen to your cells quick enough to make energy because mitochondria need oxygen to make energy in the form of ATP. And so you're forced to do that outside of your mitochondria using um glucose as a source of energy. And that glucose gets converted into energy, but also lactate. And for a long time, lactate was thought to be this just metabolic byproduct of glucose metabolism, glycolysis. Turns out, Dr. George Brooks at uh UC Berkeley decades ago came up with this lactate shuttle theory. It's no longer a theory. It's been proven many many many times. Um lactate is not only an energetic molecule, so it gets shuttled back into cells, including the muscle, and is used to make energy like glucose, like fatty acids. In fact, it's more energetically favorable than glucose. You can actually make more It takes less energy to make energy from lactate than it does from glucose. But even more importantly, lactate is actually a signaling molecule. So when you're forcing your muscles to work really hard, you're generating that lactate. A lot of people associate that burn you feel in your muscles with the lactate generation. I mean, that's kind of a okay association, I guess. Lactate itself is not responsible for the burn. Um it's the hydrogen ions, but that's a whole other story. The lactate then goes into your circulation and it gets transported to other organs, especially the brain. And it acts as a messenger. It's a way for your muscles to communicate with other organs and say, "Hey, I'm working really hard. We got to respond to this, like otherwise we're not going to be able to like survive." And so what happens is it is communicating with the brain and the heart and the liver and all these other organs where the lactate's going into, and it's activating a variety of stress response pathways so that you can deal with stress. And in the brain, lactate increases brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In fact, it is the molecule that is signaling to the brain to increase brain-derived neurotrophic factor. So this is a growth factor in the brain that is responsible for the growth of new neurons, um particularly in the hippocampus. We'll get to that in a minute. It's also important for learning, for memory, and neuroplasticity, right? That's important for your brain's ability to adapt to the changing environment. It plays a very important role in not only brain aging, but also mental health. So people with depression, for example, major depressive disorder, they have problems with neuroplasticity. Their brain is not adapting to a changing envi- environment. And so they're unable to adapt, and that is uh plays a role in depression. We also know that lactate itself signals to the brain to make neurotransmitters. We have human data on this, both serotonin, most people think about serotonin as that neurotransmitter involved in mood, makes you feel good. It's also involved in executive function, and more importantly, impulse control. Um and I talked about all those studies showing that vigorous intensity exercise has a pretty profound effect on impulse control. Well, there have been human studies that have done dose-dependent um exercise protocols where people do light exercise, moderate intensity, or they do vigorous intensity exercise, and it's the vigorous intensity exercise that increases lactate the most, and that's also associate associated with the most impulse control. We want impulse control. We want to be able to be focused. And norepinephrine as well. So our brain also is working very hard when we're doing vigorous intensity exercise. It's not just our muscles that are working hard. It's not just our and that are working hard. It's not just our cardiovascular system that working hard. Everything is working hard including our brain. And and and like I said, lactate is the way is the communication is the communicating factor there, right? And so, norepinephrine is increased also human studies showing this as well. That's involved with focus and attention and improved um memory as well. So, lactate's responsible for doing all these things. There are many different protocols out there, human protocols, human data showing uh different type of exercise intensities can increase brain-derived neurotrophic factor in the plasma where it's measured, which correlates with brain levels as well. Um the more intense the exercise, the more BDNF that you're going to make. It's definitely a dose and duration-dependent process. So, if someone that's doing like a pretty hard 30-minute run really gets a lot of BDNF, but you can also do these these hit protocols, right? The 1-minute on, 1-minute off, even doing that for you know, six times um has been shown to really massively increase brain-derived neurotrophic factor. So, the key here is just get those hard intervals in whatever your favorite protocol is and you'll be getting that BDNF boost. I like to talk about this study even though it's about gosh, it's a 2011 it was published I think PNAS. Um I love this study because it showed that exercise can reverse the brain the the the aging brain. Um and this was this study was in an older adult. They were doing more like 70 75% max heart rate, so not quite as vigorous, but pretty vigorous for this cohort cuz they're older adults. Uh they did this for about 1 year and it was incredible what happened to their brains. So, typically when you hit about 65 brain atrophy really starts to accelerate and people start to lose about on average 1 to 2% of their hippocampal brain volume per year. Well, these older adults that engaged in this type of exercise, they were doing like three times a week about 30 minutes of this type of exercise. Not only did they not experience that brain atrophy over that year, they gained brain atrophy. So, they gained about 1 to 2% in their hippocampal region. So, again, brain-derived neurotrophic factor is responsible for the growth of new neurons. They were able to actually grow new neurons in their hippocampal brain region. The control group, again, the stretching group didn't experience that either. So, I think this is a nice way to kind of wrap up the brain section here showing that vigorous intensity exercise, putting in that effort, really is good for the brain and improving brain aging. But, what if you don't have a lot of time and you know, you still want to get some improvements to the brain, to the heart, um cancer risk. There's something called exercise snacks. Uh these are really short bursts of vigorous intensity exercise. Again, you're going to that 80% or more max heart rate range and it could be 1 to 3 minutes long. These are any any type of exercise you like to do. You could do, you know, body weight squats, burpees, high knees, jumping jacks, you know, there's lots of different ways to do exercise snacks. >> [snorts] >> Um but there's now a lot of evidence out there that they're highly highly beneficial. In fact, there have been about three very large studies. They're called vigorous intermittent lifestyle activity studies, Vilpa, VILPA. Um these [snorts] studies have been done in people that have been wearing accelerometers, so researchers can measure their heart rate and they can measure, you know, distance >> [snorts] >> that people are moving. And what has been found is that people that are wearing these accelerometers, if they get their heart rate up 1 to 2 minutes three times a day they have a 40% lower cancer-related mortality, a 40% lower all-cause mortality, and a 50% lower cardiovascular-related mortality than people that are not doing these types of short bursts of exercise throughout the day. And this is even in people that identify themselves as non-exercisers. In other words, people that are like, "No, I don't go to the gym. I don't take time to like out of my day to like actually try to exercise." Yet, they were doing these types of like exercise snacks. In many cases, it was it's not the structured type of snack I told you about where you kind of like get up and do some, you know, air squats. It's more like taking advantage of everyday situations. Like, "I'm not going to use the elevator ever. I'm going to sprint up the stairs, not just walk. I'm going to go fast, right? Or I'm going to vigorously or briskly walk to the office or whatever." So, they're taking advantage of everyday situations to get their heart rate up and it really does pay off. So, there's a lot of ways that you can actually implement exercise snacks throughout your day. Um there was this recent study that came out showing that doing about 30 body weight squats every 45 minutes for like a 7 and 1/2-hour work week was better at improving glucose metabolism than a 30-minute walk. I love doing exercise snacks. We're actually all going to get up right now and we're going to do just 1 minute of body weight squats. What do you think? 1 minute of body weight squats. Everyone turn to the side. Kind of like I'm going to set my timer. Okay, is everyone up? Up? You ready? Okay. You ready? So, we're going to do body weight squats. Put in the effort. Don't just like go through the motions, but like try to like go fast. Try to squat as low as you can. All right, here we go. 1 2 3. So, we're going to do 1 minute of this. Really like try to get your heart rate up. Feel the burn. Feel uncomfortable. Feel uncomfortable. Okay, we got 45 seconds left. >> [snorts] >> Now, I'm not going as fast because I want to like be able to talk. But, usually I'd be going a lot faster. We got 30 seconds left, guys. I know, you guys are like, "What? This is the longest minute of my life." >> [laughter] >> Okay, we only got about 15 seconds left. COME ON, DON'T STOP NOW. Keep going. 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1. All right, everyone. Amazing. If you don't feel great right now, there's something wrong with you. >> [laughter] >> So, >> [sighs] >> set your timer for 45 minutes. >> [gasps] >> Do it again. No, but like seriously, when you're sitting you can you can take you can take 1 minute. I don't care if you're in your office with a patient. Do do it with your patient. You can take 1 minute if you're at your desk. I I'm serious. I challenge you. Try to find a way to implement exercise snacks. It'll change your life. All right. We're going to switch gears and we're going to talk about another type of stress. Exercise is one type of stress. We're going to talk about thermal stress from deliberate heat exposure. >> [gasps] >> And if you think if you anyone in here that's done a hot tub or a sauna um a steam shower, hot yoga you know that a lot of the physiological responses are very similar to moderate-intensity exercise. So, as you're sitting in a hot tub, as you're sitting in a hot sauna your heart rate starts to go up. You start to feel hot. You start to feel uncomfortable. You start to sweat. A lot of the same physiological processes that happen when you're doing moderate-intensity exercise, not vigorous, but moderate happen when you expose yourself deliberately to heat. Increase heart rate. Uh your your stroke volume goes up. You have increased cardiac cardiac output. In fact, there's been a head-to-head comparison looking at sauna versus a stationary bike. So, individuals did about 100 watts on a stationary bike for about 15 minutes or they were in a hot sauna for about 15 minutes. And the physiological responses that were measured were identical. So, during the activity, heart rate went up, blood pressure went up. After the activity, whether it was sauna or stationary cycling blood pressure was improved compared to baseline. The uh resting heart rate was improved, was lower. So, head-to-head comparison, sauna is mimicking moderate-intensity physical activity. There have also been studies looking at exercise alone plus or exercise plus sauna. And observational data shows that people in Finland that exercise they have a longer life expectancy than not. But, people that exercise and sauna have a longer a life expectancy than people that only just exercise. So, in other words, there seem to be an additive effect on improving life expectancy. And there's been intervention trials that have again, Finland, uh Dr. Dr. Jari Laukkanen, friend of mine. Um he's probably the the one of the world's leading experts on sauna research. He took a cohort of participants split them into two groups. One group is doing stationary bike. The other group is doing stationary bike bike and then getting into a hot sauna. In this case, it was only about 15 minutes. 175 179° F sauna. And then he measured their cardiorespiratory fitness, you know, at baseline and after the intervention and a variety of other biomarkers as well. And what he found is that exercise plus sauna improved cardiorespiratory fitness better higher than just exercise alone. Which isn't that hard to believe considering I just told you that sauna is like an exercise mimetic. So you're essentially extending the time of your workout. There was also better improvements in blood pressure, in lipid biomarkers as well compared to just exercise alone. Also data from Yari's Dr. Jari Laukkanen's lab has shown that men that use the sauna two to three times a week have about a 22% lower sudden cardiac death than men that only use the sauna one time a week. Men that use the sauna four to seven times a week have about a 63% lower sudden cardiac death than men that use it one time a week. Now, sudden cardiac death, you know, if you think about heart attacks, if you have a heart attack, you want to survive it. First of all, you don't want to have the heart attack, but if you have it, you want to survive it. And in the US, a heart attack, someone's having a heart attack like every 30 seconds. So if you can survive that heart attack, it's pretty big. 63% less likely to die from sudden cardiac death if they were doing the sauna four to seven times a week. And by the way, saunas in Finland are very ubiquitous. There's also a lot of public saunas as they call it that are free as well. So a lot of people have access to saunas. His data also showed that in a dose-dependent manner, sauna use was also associated with lower all-cause mortality. So people So this in this case it was men that use the sauna two to three times a per week had about a 24% lower all-cause mortality. If they boosted that up to four to seven times a week, they had a 40% lower all-cause mortality than men that only use the sauna one time a week. They also had a lower cardiovascular related mortality. Again, in a dose-dependent manner. If they went up to four to seven times a week, that was a 50% lower cardiovascular related mortality than men that only used it one time per week. So we're seeing this clear dose response here. This data was adjusted for many many different types of confounding factors. So you know, physical activity, lipid, you know, type two diabetes, diet, all these things were looked at. In addition to that, Yari took a cohort of individuals that actually were unhealthy. So they did have type two diabetes. And even in those cohorts, sauna use was associated with lower all-cause mortality, lower cardiovascular related mortality as well. So it really seems to be a true phenomenon that's being observed. And we'll get to some of the intervention data that kind of corroborates it. But we also know that sauna lowers stroke risk in a dose-dependent manner. Again, two to three times per week, 14% lower stroke risk. This was in both men and women compared to just one time a week. Four to seven times a week, 61% lower stroke risk. I mean, these are pretty phenomenal numbers we're talking about here. And I know I spent like the first 30 minutes of my talk talking about vigorous intensity exercise. But I mean, we all are in the real world here and there's a lot of people that just won't put that effort in. And it's a lot easier to get some people to sit in what they think is a spa, hot tub, hot sauna, than it is to get them to go and do a Peloton 10-minute interval, right? Maybe you can get the exercise snack in. I think that that that definitely is something that's doable. But it's it is it is really kind of relevant to a lot a big percentage of population that is really not going to engage in physical activity or perhaps they're even injured and they can't, right? So I think it it opens a lot of doors. Sauna use is also linked to lower hypertension in a dose-dependent manner. And this goes across not just sauna use. There was actually a lot of really early, I mean, this data dates back decades, data showing that hot baths, like hot tubs, lower blood pressure as well. So again, dose-dependent manner, two to three times per week, you get about 24% lower risk of hypertension. Go that you go up to 47 times per week, you get a 46% lower risk of hypertension. You really want to see this dose dependence when you are looking at any types of observational data because you can never really establish causation. And so it really helps strengthen the data if it's actually showing you that it's dose-dependent. There have been intervention trials as well showing that if you expose people to even just a single sauna session, but multiple sauna sessions, they improve their blood pressure after using the sauna, even after a single sauna session. So I you know, the sauna is causing vasodilation. It's doing a lot of the same, like I said, it's increasing cardiac output while you're doing it. A lot of the same things that's happening when you're engaging in moderate intensity physical activity. >> [snorts] >> Most of the parameters used in those studies were out of Finland. In Finland, they do typically their sauna temperatures around 174 to 179° Fahrenheit. They also often will put water on hot rocks to create humidity, about 20 to 30% humidity. And that does make it feel hotter as well. The duration spent in the sauna is very important. So with those studies, for example, like the sudden cardiac death study I was talking about, if those men only stayed in the sauna for 10 minutes, the effect was very much dampened. So it was like they only had an 8% lower risk of sudden cardiac death two to three times per week versus like the, you know, 25% lower risk of sudden cardiac death. So it was really the sweet spot was they had to stay in the sauna greater than 19 minutes. So I like to say 20 minutes is the sweet spot because once they hit that 20-minute mark, then they were getting the most robust effect. So really duration is important. Frequency as well. We already talked a lot about that. It was dose-dependent. The minimum effective dose, two times a week, you're going to at least get some benefits. The maximum, you know, dose, 47, right? Four if you're really kind of trying to be time efficient. >> [snorts] >> But a big question that everyone always wants to know is, what about infrared saunas? What about hot baths? Do they have the same effects? Well, let's start with hot baths because they they seem to really mimic a lot of the same effects as hot saunas. And and we'll talk about some data there with blood pressure, but they also increase brain-derived neurotrophic factor. There have been studies showing that sitting in a hot bath, 104° Fahrenheit is the is the temperature most of the studies. People have their shoulders submerged down and they're in there for 20 minutes. It's hard to do. I I mean, if you sit down and try it, it's hard. You want to always put your arms out. You get hot. But that's the the protocol there and brain-derived neurotrophic factor goes up. Blood pressure improves and we're going to talk about heat shock proteins. When it comes to infrared saunas, there was a head-to-head of moderate intensity exercise, hot sauna, and infrared sauna. Unlike the data I started out with telling you about how hot saunas do mimic moderate intensity cardiovascular exercise, for the same amount of time, infrared saunas do not do that. And it's not that big of a surprise because infrared saunas are going up to maybe 145° Fahrenheit max. They're not getting quite as hot. They're working through a very different mechanism, right? So they're using infrared radiation to kind of move molecules around to make you hotter, to make you sweat. So it's not the same at the same duration amount of time spent in the sauna. That doesn't mean that you can't double the amount of time you spend in infrared sauna and actually start to get those effects because you can. If you stay in an infrared sauna for 20 minutes, it's not going to be much of anything with respect to increasing cardiac output and all these things I talked about. If you stay in there for 40 minutes, you're going to get you're going to get those effects. So it all depends on how much time you're willing to spend in the infrared sauna. That also doesn't mean that there aren't benefits to infrared sauna. There's a lot of thermoregulatory mechanisms that are going on as well and you're sweating a lot. You are excreting some heavy metals and things that you're exposed to. But if you're looking for these effects that I'm talking about here in today, you're going to probably have to double your time or maybe two and a half it. And it's still we don't have a lot of data to show that it has the same effects, but I think it likely does if you if you get to that right duration spot, which I think is about 45 minutes to 60 minutes. I already mentioned that hot baths do improve blood pressure. Countless studies on that. But I want to shift gears and talk about this adaptive response that happens. So you know, we are stressing our bodies when we are exposing it to heat, whether that's hot air or hot water. Part of the adaptive response is an increase in something called heat shock proteins. As their name implies, they respond to heat, but they also actually are increased um when we're exposed to other types of stressors like exercise, um like eating a phytochemical like sulforaphane, for example. These heat shock proteins, um what they do primarily is they prevent proteins inside of our cells, inside of our vascular system, inside of the you know, extra inside of the extracellular space in our brains from aggregating and forming these protein aggregates. So heat shock proteins help keep proteins folded in their right three-dimensional structure. That way they can do their function properly and that way they get degraded. They, you know, when the when their time when the protein's time is up, then a new protein is made. It's properly folded. So heat shock proteins play a very important role in that full process. And so there've been studies that have shown, for example, in animal models, if you expose them to amyloid beta 42, the toxic protein that aggregates and is associated with the pathology of Alzheimer's disease and you give these mice, you know, heat shock you make them express a lot of heat shock proteins, it actually protects against the aggregation of this amyloid beta 42. So, it protects against Alzheimer's disease. The same goes for some of the cardiovascular aggregates that happen in the vascular system as well. >> [snorts] >> Um, heat shock proteins also slow muscle atrophy. There have been studies that have exposed individuals locally to heat on one leg and they're they're disuse they're disusing that leg so they have like a cast or something they're not they're not exercising or using that leg. Um, and the heat shock proteins as well as the heat local heat prevent about 40% less uh muscle atrophy. So, they play a role in preventing muscle atrophy. But, they're also associated with longevity. Human longevity. So, individuals have variations in the heat shock 70 gene that make them have a more active heat shock 70 gene so they're making more heat shock protein 70 which is one of the major heat shock proteins. If those individuals have one copy from either mom or dad, that's associated with a one-year increase in life expectancy compared to people that don't have any of those copies. They're just making normal amounts of heat shock proteins. People that have two copies so they're homozygous, those individuals have a two-year increased life expectancy compared to people that don't have any copies. So, again we're seeing a dose-dependent effect here with um with those alleles. And this extends to lower organisms as well. I I've done these experiments with my own hands um in worms and in flies. If you expose them to a really short burst burst of heat, it'll extend their life expectancy by like 20%. So, it seems to be an evolutionary conserved mechanism as well. And we know that people that sit in a relatively hot sauna, actually not even that hot, 163°F sauna for about 30 minutes, they can increase their heat shock proteins by 50% over baseline. Heat shock proteins again this is another sort of dose dose and duration-dependent response. I mentioned 20 minutes in a 104° bath for you know, shoulders down also increases heat shock proteins. Sauna also lowers inflammation so there have been a variety of studies um initially it has the same response as exercise where you're increasing IL-6. This is kind of this kind of funny cytokine because oftentimes it's associated with inflammation, but IL-6 is also kind of like a signaling mechanism because when you put the right the good type of stress on your body like exercise or heat stress, the IL-6 that's produced is actually signaling and you make something called IL-10 the anti-inflammatory cytokine and so you end up having this net anti-inflammatory response which is the same thing that happens with exercise. Yes, you're generating inflammation while you're doing that exercise, but the response the adaptation that your body is um you know, undergoing to respond to that inflammation is to make a lot of anti-inflammatory cytokines to deal not only with that acute inflammation, but that response is long-lasting. So, essentially like days later you're still having an anti-inflammatory response which means all the other stresses of aging you're kind of combating combating that better, right? So, this is that so-called hormetic effect where you're giving the little dose of a a good type of stress and the response that stress is so robust that it really is just improving the way you age. It's resilience. It's building resilience and that's really what we're talking about today. >> [snorts] >> Sauna use is also associated with a decrease in dementia and Alzheimer's disease. In this study here this was out of again Dr. Laukkanen's lab. He showed that people that use the sauna four to six times per four to seven times per week had a 65% lower Alzheimer's disease risk as well as dementia risk. Um I want to take a moment here to talk about another study out of Finland that showed the same thing. It was about a 60% lower dementia risk if people used the sauna um frequently. However, that study looked at temperature so they they they basically [clears throat] looked at different types of temperatures that people were using and they found something very interesting. And that is is that when people started to go to the really extreme hot level so they were going above 200°F they were getting like 200 to 210 212°F that sort of like that go hard go home mentality, they actually had a higher two times higher risk of Alzheimer's disease. I think that's important because you know, often times there is this go hard go home, but when we're talking about stress, you know, we're giving we're we're the whole point is we want to give ourselves the right dose the right amount of stress to have that really important anti-inflammatory antioxidant you know, adaptive response. But, like heat is it's a hard stress and you don't necessarily want to be going in 212°F sauna that's very hot and your head is exposed to that heat, too. It's not really understood what the mechanisms are there, but there's no reason to go in a 212°F sauna. I think you know, 190 max like that's that's that's hard. 190 is hot. I go I do 180 personally, um but I think that's important because I know if you go on Instagram there's a lot of influencers that are going really really hot and I just don't think that's a great idea. Um, we don't have any evidence that going that hot is beneficial and if anything we have evidence that it potentially might be harmful, right? >> [clears throat] >> So, overall this is a from a paper I published in 2018. Um or sorry 2021. I think you know, it's pretty clear sauna improves health span deliberate heat exposure through sauna through hot baths. We are you're mimicking car modern physical exercise. Doing in conjunction with exercise is better than exercise alone. You're improving your cardiovascular health. It improves endothelial function and it it improves arterial compliance and you're getting that heat shock protein response. By the way, the heat shock proteins stay activated for about 48 hours. So, the more frequently that you're exposing yourself to heat or exercise which also raises your core body temperature, you're getting that heat shock protein response, right? So, that's good especially if you don't have those alleles where you're having an overactive heat shock protein 70. Okay, the last fourth of the talk I'm going to talk about cold stress. I'm in my cold plunge smiling. I usually don't smile and I often say prof pain words, but um we're going to totally talk about a different type of thermal stress here. Um, we're going to talk about deliberate cold exposure. There's a lot of things that we could talk about, but because of time we're going to just talk about a few. Um, I'm going to focus on increased brown adipose tissue. Um, this is the thermogenic type of adipose tissue. We're going to talk about the effects on mood and cognition that's like my favorite. We're going to talk about the effects on mitochondrial biogenesis the growth of new mitochondria both in adipose tissue and what that means and also in muscle tissue and what that means. And then [snorts] we're going to talk about some precautions because depending on the protocol, the timing of the protocol um and other things that you're doing it may blunt some muscle hypertrophy from your resistance training and that's something to keep in mind as well. So, cold stress much like heat stress causes adaptations and these adaptations are also dose and duration-dependent. So, for example people that spent one hour in 57°F water had a fivefold increase in norepinephrine, right? That's uh it's norepinephrine is both a hormone and a neurotransmitter. As a hormone it causes vasoconstriction and that's what's happening when you get into the cold it's causing vasoconstriction, but also when you get into the cold it's increasing norepinephrine in the brain in the locus coeruleus region of the brain. Those studies have also been done. But, who wants [snorts] to go into 57 by the way is not warm. I mean if you've anyone's done 57 it feels pretty darn cold. Um, who wants to do that for one hour? Um, luckily two minutes at raises norepinephrine by twofold. This is my favorite thing. This is my spot. I I do about 49°F for two minutes. I like to get that little norepinephrine pump cuz I'm it really helps with the focus and the attention improving mood. Sort of it has a little bit of an anxiolytic effect where anxiety is a little bit lowered as well. And two minutes is way easier than one hour, right? >> [snorts] >> And then 35°F that's really cold. Um, not a huge fan of that, but if you just go in there for 20 seconds if you really want to be efficient, that also is associated with a twofold increase in norepinephrine. Now, if you stayed in there for two minutes versus 20 seconds you're probably going to go up a little bit more in terms of your norepinephrine response, but the bottom line here is dose and duration-dependent. You kind of get the point. And I this is just to show you guys there's evidence that yes, cold does increase norepinephrine in the brain. It's not just the hormonal response that's occurring. It's the brain as well and anyone that's done deliberate cold exposure knows this is true. You feel it immediately. There have been some studies. Um, this was a very small cohort study that was done in people with major depressive disorder and they were exposed to cryotherapy. So, not cold water immersion, but they were going into those cryo chambers with a very very cold air. And um researchers wanted to look at how it affected their mood. And so, there was a treatment group and then there was the sham control. The treatment group they were getting about minus 256°F. I've done cryotherapy several times. I much prefer cold water immersion. Um, there's something about the water contacting your skin where it just makes it much more robust of a effect at least for me. Um, however, it's a lot easier to have this this sham control here. They had a minus 58° F sham control, which does people going in that feel like they're totally getting a a response. A placebo group is very obviously very important when you're studying any kind of depressed depression because the placebo effect is very real and you'll get an antidepressant effect. And so the people that did the 2 minutes at that minus 236° F five times a week for 2 weeks did have a pretty major anti sorry, antidepressant effect. In fact, in fact, the Hamilton scale they improved by about 17 points, which is kind of phenomenal. Just to give you reference basis, I think if you have like a 2.5 change in that scale, it's considered to be clinically relevant and they had 17. So. Um let's shift gears and talk about the effect of deliberate cold exposure on thermogenesis on brown brown adipose tissue. So, one of the regulating responses here is the norepinephrine response. When you are making norepinephrine, when you're making it in your vascular system, the hormonal effects, it is a signaling mechanism much like we talked about with the lactate. Well, the norepinephrine is increasing a protein called UCP1, which then signals to your adipose tissue to make more mitochondria. So, it's an adaptation because the more mitochondria you have in your adipose tissue, the more energy that you can burn and the more heat as a byproduct is made and so your body is finding a way to stay alive when you're sitting in the cold. And the way that it's adapted to do that is to make more mitochondria. Therefore, you can burn more energy in your adipose tissue. So, your your stored fatty acids undergo lipolysis. You start to metabolize those, right? And therefore, you're making energy and then heat is dissipating, right? And so you're warming yourself up. And this is an adaptation that happens the more you expose yourself to the cold, the more you start to make brown fat. And so that that is something that is a therapeutic target for many many different researchers out there. They're trying to find a way to make a pill to increase brown adipose tissue, to increase mitochondrial biogenesis in brown adipose tissue because that would be a you know, weight loss mechanism, right? Because you're burning more fat. It's also it's it's also associated with improving metabolic health as well. We know from studies that young healthy people, this in this case they were men, if they walked around with a cooling suit that was cooling their body to about 50° F for 2 hours daily, after 1 month, they had about a almost 50% crease in brown adipose tissue. That's really a lot. That's a lot. I've seen other studies where 15 minutes, do I have that slide? No. I've seen other studies where 15 minutes in 50° F cold water can also increase the bio the mitochondrial biogenesis in your adipose tissue. So, if you if anyone's in here has done deliberate cold exposure, you know that 15 minutes is hard. In fact, the sauna, it gets harder the longer you stay in cuz you're getting hot and you're uncomfortable. The cold gets easier the longer you stay in. So, if you can get past about 4 minutes, you can you can actually do 15 minutes at 50° F. But, adipose tissue is not the only tissue where mitochondrial biogenesis occurs in response to deliberate cold exposure. Muscle also is increased. So, um this there there's been a few studies that have shown again, what's happening is when you're getting yourself exposed to the cold, norepinephrine goes up. That increases a protein called PGC1 alpha, which then increases mitochondrial content in muscle tissue. That is associated with decreased muscle atrophy. It's associated with improved endurance performance. In fact, there's actually been several studies that have shown elite tennis players, rowers, let's see, what else? There've been a variety of different endurance runners that in between their their their sort of sets that they're doing, if they engage in deliberate cold exposure, they actually improve their running time or their reaction time, whatever you know, metrics being measured, but it's essentially increase or improving their athletic performance. This is very specific to endurance type of activities only. And I'll talk about that probably in the next slide, but it it's really important that I also just want to point out the best way to increase mitochondrial biogenesis in muscle tissue is actually high intensity interval training, way more robust than deliberate cold exposure. With that said, deliberate cold exposure does also increase mitochondrial biogenesis. It's an adaptive response again. In fact, individuals that spend about 15 minutes again at 50 So, if you're I think that the sweet spot here is 50° F, 15 minutes. That's the number for increased mitochondrial biogenesis in muscle and increased myo mitochondrial biogenesis in adipose tissue, which then is translating to brown adipose adipose tissue, right? The reason it's brown adipose tissue is if you look at a little fat droplet under a microscope, the more mitochondria it has in it, the browner it looks under the microscope and that's where it got its name from. Very important to point this out and that is deliberate cold exposure after any kind of resistance strength training type of exercise where you're trying to put mechanical force in your muscle to increase muscle protein synthesis to cause muscle hypertrophy can blunt some of those anabolic effects. For a variety of reasons, there have been multiple studies now, the most recent one by Luke van Loon. Um He showed that essentially because the the cold exposure is causing vasoconstriction, you're basically for a period of time, you're not getting as much amino acids to muscle, you're not getting as much of the inflammatory and growth factors to the anabolic signaling to the muscle tissue. You end up having a blunted hypertrophy hypertrophy effect. That's not to say you don't experience some muscle hypertrophy, you do. It's just if you compare it to a sham control group, it's blunted. And so if you're really trying to maximize your muscle gains, it's a good idea to not engage in deliberate cold exposure, cold water immersion, cryotherapy, whatever fill in the blank your favorite cold exposure method is anytime around resistance training. And you may go, "Well, when do I do it?" Um I think it's the safest if you're doing it on recovery days or days where you're doing more endurance training like a run, more of a like a zone two moderate intensity training kind of day. Those are the best days to do it or perhaps like many many many hours after or before you're going to do your training because you do run the risk of blunting your muscle protein synthesis. So, to sum that up, we talked about some protocols. If you're really just wanting a little brain pop, if you're wanting to get that norepinephrine response, if you're wanting to perk up before you sit down at your desk or before you're giving a talk or before you're doing something cognitively demanding, you can you can do your hit protocol, which is my fav, or you can do your your 2 minutes at 50° F and get that norepinephrine boost. You can also do 35° F for 20 seconds if you really can't stand the 2 minutes. That's another option. For mitochondrial biogenesis, whether it's in adipose tissue or in muscle, the key here is 50° F for 15 minutes. And actually like once you work your way up to that point, it becomes easier because you have more brown adipose tissue, it doesn't feel as cold. And so after like a couple of weeks, you'll actually notice that it doesn't feel as cold, but it goes away very quick. If you stop doing it, it's gone. You'll you'll have to readapt. So, with that said, I'm going to conclude the three habits that we talked about today. Vigorous intensity exercise, really, you know, there's a variety of protocols out there. Whether you're doing the Norwegian 4 by 4 or you're doing the 1 minute on, 1 minute off 10 times or you're doing Tabata's, 20 seconds on, 10 seconds off, find a way to make it frequent. Or you're doing your exercise snacks. Find a way to just start doing them throughout the day. If it's three times throughout the day, great. If it's six times, even better. Find a way to just get up and do 1 minute. 1 minute. You feel great after that minute, right? If you do that about six times a day, it's amazing. Um you want to try to incorporate some deliberate heat exposure. If you don't have access to a sauna, hot baths are great. If you don't have a hot tub or a jacuzzi, get a pool thermometer, stick it in your bathtub and make sure you keep refilling the hot water so that it stays about 104° F or close to that. Very easy, very accessible for many people that don't have saunas as well. If you have an infrared sauna, you probably going to have to double your time to about 45 minutes or more. And then deliberate cold exposure, hard to do if you don't have your own cold plunge, although depending on where you live in the US in the in the winter, cold showers can do wonders as well. If you're in Florida, not so much all all times of the year. I've gone to Florida in the in in the winter where I'm like, "This isn't cold at all." So, you know, the the benefits are also dose and duration dependent. 50° F, 15 minutes if you want that mitochondrial biogenesis boost. And with that, thank you so much. I think we're going to take some questions. I'm looking forward to those. Thank you so much, Rhonda. So, who loved that? >> [laughter] >> I mean, Yeah. Yeah. I literally have chills right now. So, she is a if not the powerhouse on all of those subjects in the entire world. So, the fact she's on our stage and I'm actually up here is literally a bucket list item. So, I'm going to dive in. I mean, we've been doing this, you know, now for a day plus and the amount of questions, I mean, you obviously have very, very hot, pun intended, topics. Um the amount of questions coming in around all the subject matter is is is literally mind-boggling. So, I'm going to dive in. First off, a personal thank you. I learned everything I do I do sauna every single day. You guys know I talk about resilient behaviors and sauna and all sorts of things, but it's for you that I learned all of that. So, thank you cuz your contributions are literally I don't think you understand what you're what you're contributing to this space. It's it's truly incredible. Thank you. >> So, So, I'm going to do my best to categorize these because there's a lot and there's a lot of overlap and you may have actually just answered some things that I didn't hear. So, um repetition is the mother of learning. So, we'll just sort of dive into some of this. So, I'm going to hit at some point micronutrients. I know that's a big passion of yours. I'll hit the top three that I know you always educate on cuz I think our audience is going to want to hear that. I'll get into some more stuff about exercise, hot, cold, I mean, all the things. Let me just sort of lead off with Okay. There was a whole category that came in around cycling women. So, women who have menstrual cycles and exercising and hot and cold and I know this is going to be kind of a all-encompassing discussion, but even just pre-menopause, perimenopause, menopause, and exercise recommendations, do they change? Does your heat schedule change? Does your cold Does anything change relative to the menstrual cycle? If we can start there. Okay. Um I have some pretty strong thoughts on this and it it's probably not what you're going to expect. I do think there's a lot of hype out there on inducing fear around this topic. I think if a woman listens to her body, I mean, that's all you really have to do, honestly. If you're on your cycle, I mean, you're not going to go as hard, right? I mean, there's times that you're just it's pretty clear. Um when it comes to like the hormonal responses that are happening from some of these, you know, types of exercise that people are so worried about high-intensity exercise being bad for women. Like the problem with that statement is it doesn't encompass the nuance there, which is essentially that all stems from data showing that women in a calorically deficit state that are doing extreme types of exercise, whether it's very long duration endurance or very high volume, high intensity training. That, you know, is kind of like if you're in this calorie deficit, then you can you can have a pretty strong effect on hormones and that's the problem, I think. So, if you're not in a calorie deficit and you're not really I don't know that there's anything to worry about other than the fact that you probably should making be making sure you're getting enough iron, to be honest, if you're menstruating. Um if you're postmenopausal, I mean, again, I think that you should just be probably working out harder. Um so, yeah, I I my my thoughts are don't sweat that topic so much. Please, listen to your body and it's really not a huge issue for most people. Thank you for that. How do you see intermittent fasting and time-restricted feeding or eating intersecting with exercise timing for optimizing metabolic health? For metabolic health? Okay. Yeah, that's important. So, I think that if you're doing any kind of intermittent fasting protocol, whether that's time-restricted eating and you're eating all your food within like an 8-hour window, what you really, really need to keep in mind is making sure you're getting enough protein, right? Because that's that's the key for preventing Anytime you're in a caloric deficit, if you're skipping meals, you have to make sure you're going higher on the protein, even higher than you would if you weren't in a you know, caloric deficit. So, you want to make sure you're getting enough protein. I would say at least 1.6 um grams per kilogram body weight per day, probably closer to two, to be honest, if you're actually skipping meals. Um [snorts] If you're engaging in exercise, you probably, depending on the type of exercise, so if you're doing high-intensity exercise or resistance training, you don't really want to do that in a fasted state. So, you want to time those types of exercises closer to like a meal. If you're doing more of an endurance type of training, as long as it's less than an hour, you can actually enhance some of the metabolic adaptations and maybe that's the question you're asking. If you're wanting to increase more things like autophagy, so this is what a lot of people are doing They're aiming to increase autophagy and that's why they're intermittent fasting, among other reasons, but autophagy is when you're in in that fasted state and essentially you're clearing out a lot of the the damage that's accumulated within cells, whether it's protein aggregates or pieces of DNA, just all the gunk. Um Caloric restriction and being in an energy deficit does that, but so does exercise. And when you pair the two together, you can kind of enhance that process even more. So, also some of the mitochondrial adaptations that you're going to experience from your endurance training will also be enhanced somewhat if you do them in a fasted state. I don't know that it makes that big of a difference, but if you really, really like trying to dial in every single thing, um I think that that's also key. When it comes to metabolic health, also high-intensity vigorous exercise is the most important because it's that it's causing an intense stress on your muscles, which are increasing glucose transporters to come up to the cell surface, bring glucose in better. That's even It lactate is the molecule that's actually signaling to do that. So, you really have to go harder to get that response. Timing that with um time-restricted eating is great if you can try to eat your your meal earlier in the day, you're going to get like a double hit, right? Because as we're getting as we throughout the day, our metabolic I would say health, our glucose metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, all these things aren't as efficient as they are earlier in the day. And so, if you're timing if you're doing both of those things, then you're really optimizing for metabolic health in both both directions. Great, thank you. This next series of questions is sort of around the same topic. The high-level one is, how do you if someone doesn't exercise and they're sedentary, what are you How do you discuss just initiating exercise? One, two, these are all prescribers in the room and we treat a lot of pathology. So, we see autoimmune disease, we see cancer, we see people fibromyalgia, things that are just like lots of metabolically a lot of inflamed sort of metabolic derangement going on. How do you plan and I know it's also individual It's based on the person, but generally speaking, how do you plan or or educate or at least recommend exercise regimens, hit or otherwise, for someone, let's say, with autoimmune disease, which is so prevalent, or or fibromyalgia, any of these chronic conditions? What would you say to both the sedentary person who never exercises? How would you introduce them to it? Secondly, the person who's highly inflamed, but also needs to do it? Yeah. Um I'm going to try to answer that question the best I can in a short period of time without all the nuance. Um So, first and foremost, I like to turn to the exercise snacks because we all did them together for 1 minute and you can introduce that. You can like in your office or wherever you're seeing your patient, you can actually just we're going to do this together for 1 minute and it they don't have you know, just as hard as they can and whatever they can do. What what they need to get is that dopamine response, right? They need to feel that dopamine themselves because you can tell them all the things you all the benefits, you can give them all the science. I mean, you can lecture them, just throw it all at them, but at the end of the day, like they need to have they need to have something that makes them want to do it, right? And so, if you do that short exercise snack with them, they're going to get that dopamine response and they're going to feel it and they're going to be like, "Wow, this is how I feel after just this one little short minute of, you know, whatever it is you do with them, jumping jacks, high knees, whatever. You chair squats, right? For like older adults. Um I think that's a great place to start. I've done it with my mom. Um the other place is group exercises. Huge. Like there's a social component. Um there's a component of like you have to show up, right? Accountability is there. And so, like if you kind of can find any type of group exercise, you know, whether So, for example, just I got my mom in a seniors CrossFit. You know, she's 70 years old and she's now going to a seniors CrossFit class three times a week. She's been sedentary her whole life and she's been doing this CrossFit now for the past 9 months and she goes three times a week and she loves it. It blew my mind that I never thought I'd be able to get her to do that, but it it happened and how and how did it happen? Well, one, uh the friends that she's made there. So, I did there there's a real power in these group exercises. So, if you you can find something where people can go and like have a community, it really it's not just like going to the gym by yourself and yeah, you can do that and make friends, but like a class, you know, where they actually have to show up and they make friends and it really helps. Um with respect to like fibromyalgia and all those things, um people will start to notice as they start to work out, it's like the opposite of what they think. They think they have to rest and not move, but it turns out that's like the worst thing they can do. And if they start moving, all these anti-inflammatory mechanisms kick in. They actually start feeling better. And so, even just getting them again to the short burst of exercise snacks or starting out with the class that it's not necessarily vigorous intensity, but it's like it's something that's that they can do. And again, they get the dopamine, they start to notice they have to feel these effects and that's when it get what's going to get them going back to it. And then with the sauna, um that's also a really good place to start and to bring it in, you know, combination as well because it is easier to go sit in a sauna and they do kind of feel like they're getting a spa treatment and there are beneficial effects from that as well, but I really think it should be paired with exercise because exercise is the king. There's nothing that compares to getting getting physically active. Awesome. Um maybe easy one. What is your favorite wearable? Um well, right now my favorite wearable only is it's my Apple Watch because of all the other not just fitness reasons. Um I do like the Whoop as well. And then I'm I'm actually uh diving into Google's Pixel. I'm actually on their uh scientific advisory board uh for Pixel and there's like a new AI assistant coming with that that is really cool. Very cool. Very cool. Personal question I've wanted to ask you. I am into the Carol bike. Are you familiar? I have one. You have one. Okay, I didn't know that. So, um a lot of people don't know what that is. Can you just explain what it is and then I love to just hear your thoughts on that. I'm about 6 weeks in to mine and there's a Norwegian 4x4 on there that I'll do. And so when I when I knew you were going to be talking about that, I mean again, chills. So, can you just tell people what that is and kind of what it's claiming that you'll get cuz I mean it kind of blew me away when I started like doing it, but also reading what they're claiming and the research around it. So, I'm just curious. Yeah, I mean uh full disclaimer, I have a Carol bike, but I've only used it a handful of times because um I've got my routine down on my Peloton and I'm mostly not doing I'm doing other stuff types of training, but to essentially the Carol bike, you know, it's is it's kind of forcing you to do it's like a protocol where it's forcing you to do it in a in a way where it's not like you you kind of have to go with it in a way. So, it's like it it changes the intensity, you have to keep up with that change in intensity. Um they added the 4x4 because of me. Um I had Really? since with them on that. That's hilarious. And I was like, I hate how the Peloton has no 4x4. Oh my Um and so they they added the 4x4 and that for that reason alone, I like the Carol bike. Okay. >> Um but I you probably can describe it better than I have because I have used it so infrequently and only for the Norwegian 4x4. Well, the way that I discussed it Carol bike's an AI sort of generated stationary bike that you you bring home, you order it, 5 weeks later you build it. It's easy to build and you start doing it. Their whole claim is literally 3 days a week, a 5-minute exercise, 15 minutes, 15 minutes. After 8 weeks, your VO2 max goes up 12 to 15%. 15 minutes a week and that's doing their classic what they call rehit, reduced high-intensity interval. And that's it. So, what I have in my practice and you may as well, I have cyclists that do triathlons, Iron Mans, what have you. These are very very fit people. They love the Carol bike as an augment to what they already do in their normal training regimen. They just swear that it helps sort of what they feel is this margin, this very slim margin to improve their cardiorespiratory fitness. So, anyways, I was just intrigued about your thoughts on that because there's a bunch of other things like different exercises in it, but who can't do 5 minutes 3 days a week? That was the other thing that really appealed to me and they have a 100-day uh money-back guarantee. So, if you get it and you do, oh I don't know, four times a week and you feel like it's not doing it, um you can send it back. So, anyways, have you I was just curious about what your thoughts were. >> to the whole like hit protocols improve cardiorespiratory fitness and like, you know, 15 minutes a week absolutely is going to do that. Yeah. >> And improve it. >> And I mean again, stationary bike, right? It's so great on the joints. You're in the AC. It's not like you have to drive or go or or put stress on. So, it just made a lot of sense to me. So, I appreciate that. I'm going to switch now into um the micronutrient category and and I'm going to leave this off with one that that may not be familiar with the audience and I'd love for you to explain this, but this this idea of omega-3s and fatty 15. Are you familiar? Yeah. So, so pentadecanoic acid, I believe, but but what we we teach on EPA DHA and the importance of those and why systemically they're important, but as compared to Can you Can we at least describe what fatty 15 is and is there I have a conceptual idea of the two differences, but I'm curious about your thoughts on this since you love that space. I Well, let me just say looking at the data on, you know, fatty 15, it's very weak. It's very observational. It's very I it's it's just I don't I don't know that there's enough there. It's kind of like, are we looking at the foods that it's in and that's what's happening um versus, you know, if you're if you're comparing it to like EPA DHA, I mean there's just decades and decades. It's probably the most well-studied fatty acid like molecule one most most well-studied molecules. Tons of evidence on actually supplementing with it, right? Where we know it's actually due to this molecule versus like the fatty 15 where there's a lot of observational evidence in like, okay, this is found in these types of meats, these types of foods. There's a little bit of supplements that it's like the supplement studies are so far and few where it's like by a company that's making that molecule. So, there's a little bit of a conflict of interest and they're very very small studies with all sorts of problems. So, um from an evidence-based approach, I find it interesting. I don't quite know what to make of it yet, but I will say that with the omega-3s, I am confident Yeah. that those are highly beneficial and that most people are in fact 80 to 90% of the population is deficient in omega-3. They're not getting enough. Yeah. And that you can essentially increase someone's life expectancy by 5 years by bringing them from a, you know, low omega-3 index, which is 4%, to a high index, which is 8%. Um so, to me um probably not the answer you want to hear. [snorts] I do I do think it's an interesting area to keep keep my finger on the pulse, but um because I'm so critical and evidence-based, I still I I have to be like very balanced >> Absolutely. >> talk about it. And there's definitely no answer I want to hear. So, you basically just verbatim said what I thought you would because you're a researcher and I already knew sort of the answer, but I was asked to ask. So, so that that's got to do Hey, I'm waiting. I'm waiting for the cool study. I'm like, I'll be the first to talk about it. So, on the ratio of EPA to DHA, I assume it depends on what you're going for and what you're treating, but generally speaking, can you just talk to that to the audience? Yeah, the ratio to EPA to DHA. So, first of all, let's talk about like, you know, these these fatty acids. Um DHA is predominantly found in our cell membranes. It plays a role in the fluidity of our membrane. So, it does kind of the opposite of what trans fats do. Trans fats will stiffen, they get incorporated into the cell membrane in endothelial cells lining the lining our vascular system, our arteries. They'll stiffen it and cause cardiovascular disease. Well, DHA does the opposite. It makes it more flexible. It makes it more fluid. And so, um it's very important component of our cell membranes including in our neurons. In fact, if you're not getting enough DHA, what happens is transporters and receptors like neurotransmitter receptors like serotonin, like dopamine, they're structurally not uh optimal because the membrane stiffen and so neurotransmitters can't bind them as well. And so, you'll find that transport of nutrients, even glucose has been studied showing that glucose transport into the brain across the blood-brain barrier because the glucose transporters are they're they're they're structurally not optimal when you don't have enough DHA, which accumulates at the blood-brain barrier. Then you're not getting enough glucose into the brain. You're not You're not You You get the idea. You're not binding, you know, the serotonin receptors are not binding serotonin, so you don't get the effect. Same with dopamine. So, the So, DHA plays a very important role in a lot of functions. Also, muscle tissue. So, there's studies now by Chris McGlory um showing that DHA actually having high levels super high levels of DHA in the muscle can make it can sensitize it to amino acids. So, that plays a role in obviously muscle protein synthesis and um preventing muscle atrophy as a um function of disuse. Um EPA on the other hand is also incorporated into cell membranes, but doesn't have as big of a role as DHA. It has a very important anti-inflammatory role as well. And so, um it's playing a big role in cardiovascular health. I think if you're wanting if you're someone that's really got like cardiovascular disease, then like you're focusing more on a higher EPA. You want higher EPA. If you're someone that's really you've you've got a familial history of Alzheimer's disease or dementia or Parkinson's disease, brain neurodegenerative disorders, really focus is DHA. So, I think it depends on what outcome we're looking at. I like to get both, but really uh depression is interestingly um EPA because of the anti-inflammatory effect as well. But um so, my thoughts are here. It's not just a one-size-fits-all. It's like, what endpoint are we looking at here, right? Cardiovascular disease or brain brain dysfunction. So, we would hear checks omega checks omega quant omega indexes. Yeah, okay. Not enough. >> Few hands. So, um yeah, something I've been doing for years and yeah, just glad you're on stage cuz I want to ask you that. Nice. There's something supplements They're rancid. Okay, let me talk Can I talk to that question? So, the question is, oh you shouldn't be taking fish oil supplements because um you know, fish oil is a polyunsaturated fatty acid. Polyunsaturated fatty acids are very prone to oxidation. Um I will say this, I there's not a single study. In fact, there were studies that were deliberately fed people oxidized fatty acids and they had no negative effects. And that was already like I still think you should get a quality fish oil supplement for sure. Like don't get me wrong. But there's more than one study and and the only reason I know about this is because when I submitted an article for peer review, reviewers were jumping on my case about. I was like the opposite. I was like, oh, it's oxidized. You have to and they were like, three studies right here. They gave them they fed people oxidized fish oil. And guess what? Markers were still improving and things were not going bad. So I was like after that I was like, okay, I can't I'm I'm sold, you know. Show me the data. I will change my mind on something, right? It's all about following the data. So the bottom line here is that you know, even even a sub-optimal fish oil supplement is beneficial. And I think there's there's a lot of perverse incentive in some of these influencers saying these things because if you create that fear response, people will listen to you. They get more followers. They get, you know, so you have to really be careful with that effect because it's a real effect. And at the end of the day, you know, I'm an associate scientist at the Fatty Acid Research Institute. I've published I've two publications with omega-3 fatty acids. I'm involved in clinical trials right now. I mean, I I I can't tell you enough like omega-3 fatty acids, it's like one of the easiest things that we can do, you know, it's supplementing with the fish oil. About 2 g a day will get most people from a low index of 4% to a high omega-3 index. By the way, we're talking about omega-3 fatty acids in red blood cells. That's the omega-3 index. And and it has a huge impact on 90% lower sudden cardiac death, 5-year increased life expectancy, a just a whole host of benefits, neurodegenerative disease as well, dementia risk is lowered. Um we have all these randomized controlled trials now. We have the reduce it trial with Vascepa high EPA showing 25% lower adverse cardiac events including stroke and heart attack compared to placebo. We have the vital study where people were actually given a low dose. They were given like 800 mg of Lovaza. So that's the prescription form of omega-3 that's EPA and DHA. If we look at secondary outcomes, these individuals had about a 30% lower heart attack risk compared to placebo. This was a 5-year study. These are large randomized controlled trials. This is causation, not just observational data, which all points in that direction as well. So I don't think there's an argument that people can make when it comes to supplementing with fish oil is bad when we're seeing, you know, 30% reduced heart attack and death from heart attacks. Yeah. Compared to placebo. 100%. For the timekeepers, I apologize, but I'm next to a power house. I've got three more and then I'll be done. Magnesium, you know, huge, right? It's a big micronutrient you talk about a lot. Can you just break down how you think through the different forms of it and when you choose to use what you choose to use based on what? Yeah, so magnesium's an essential micronutrient. We can't make it in our body. We have to get it from our diet, right? Half the population's not doing that because it's essentially found in dark leafy greens. So supplementation is another way to get it. The RDA for magnesium for women is about 300 to 350 mg a day. For men, it's about 350 to 400 mg a day. If you're sweating a lot, you're using the sauna, you're physically active, those requirements can go up between 10 to 20%. If you're a high-level athlete, again, those levels can go up. And most people [clears throat] aren't even meeting that. So imagine, you know, how deficient people are in magnesium. >> [snorts] >> It is a cofactor for over 300 enzymes. Important to make energy. You can't make ATP without magnesium. You also need it to repair damage to your DNA. So it plays a very important role in preventing age-related cancer. That's not something that's going to show up in your 30s or 40s, maybe 50s. As you get to your sixth, seventh, eighth decade of life, you know, cancer start to show up. And if you've been a lifetime of magnesium deficiency, you're not repairing that damage to your DNA as well. That can lead to oncogenic mutations. Also, magnesium stored in bones. And so anytime you're in a magnesium deficient state, you pull it out of your bones because you have to maintain plasma levels of magnesium. And so a plasma magnesium test isn't necessarily going to show someone's getting insufficient magnesium because you're going to pull it out of your bones. So it also plays a role in osteoporosis. What what forms of magnesium can people take? That's like the big question. So there's a lot of forms out there. The classic one that people used to take, magnesium dioxide, terrible. It's just not bioavailable at all. Um so forget that form. When it comes to supplementation, some of the best and most bioavailable forms are the the organic salts. So you're getting magnesium citrate, magnesium malate, magnesium taurate. And then magnesium glycinate is a really good one. So those are some of the most bioavailable forms. Magnesium glycinate I like to take because at night especially because glycine, so it's it's attached to a glycine molecule. And so if you're taking glycinate or bisglycinate, that's two glycines, you end up you end up getting glycine as well, which is also seems to help with sleep a little bit. So magnesium glycinate is a very bioavailable form. I think that's a great form to take. There's also magnesium threonate. Magnesium threonate is a form of magnesium that was developed by a group of researchers to look at the effects of getting magnesium into the brain more readily. And so animal studies show that it can actually more readily cross the blood-brain get into the brain. There's two small human cohort studies looking at magnesium threonate and its effect on cognition. It seems to improve cognition. I'll say this, take it with a grain of salt. We do need more evidence, but it is looking promising. Um that data had to be pulled together just because I think there wasn't enough sample size to power the study. Often times you'll have to do that if you don't have a large enough sample size. So the thing with magnesium threonate is if if you're looking for the brain effects, so improved cognition, just consider that magnesium is potentially going to the brain more. And so you want to get the other form as well to like be in this in your circulation to help repair damage, to help with energy as well. So I think that people that are only taking magnesium threonate are missing out and should be taking also maybe magnesium glycinate or magnesium malate or citrate, whatever whatever form you like. Like I said, I like the glycinate. Perfect. Thank you. Um maybe an easy one. What's one area of your research you feel providers underutilize in everyday patient care and how could we integrate it more effectively? Well, I would say the omega-3 index. I only saw a couple of hands and I think that's like it's one of the it's one of the easiest things and you get a very robust effect in terms of the way you age, cardiovascular, brain, mood, muscle, endless, right? And life life expectancy. Super easy. You can get someone to take 1.5 to 2 g a day. It's well below the 4 g that is prescribed to patients with, you know, high triglycerides or cardiovascular disease. Um so I would say that was that would be the the the biggest thing. Also a multivitamin, honestly. Um simple simple multivitamin. Yeah, omega's a huge passion of mine as well. So last one, always like to conclude with these types of questions cuz I think the audience is very curious. What is September 2025? What is Rhonda Patrick's weekly resiliency behavior schedule? What do you do? Uh weekly? Weekly. Okay. So I probably work out about usually [snorts] 5 hours a week when I'm at home and not traveling. That's one of the most important things I focus on. I have to get my high-intensity exercise and my resistance training. I do it like it's like I it's like you can't miss brushing your teeth and that's how I view this. I have to do it. Someone asked me at the last event like, well, you talked all about this cardiorespiratory fitness and vigorous-intensity exercise. What about the muscle? And I'm like, yeah, you got to do resistance training. I just didn't talk about it today. Like you have to do it. So I like to do a lot I do CrossFit training. I do that 3 hours a week. Um that I like it because it incorporates both the high-intensity and it incorporates resistance training and strength training. So I starts out with strength training and resistance training and then it like incorporates the the hit stuff and cardiovascular and the rowing and the biking, sprinting and stuff. So I really like doing that because I'm getting all of the resistance training that I need. I'm getting the hit. And then my additional hours of working out are running. And sometimes I'll do as my exercise snacks. But the the running I also like for other reasons. It's kind of my you know, it's recovery days where I run. And it's also really just when my brain kind of like cleans out and I like go through all the stuff that is like in my head and it like is a very it's like this mental cleaning out for me that I love. And I also get ideas. So it's like a daydreaming kind of effect as well. >> [laughter] >> Um on top of that, I like to do my nightly sauna. So I used to be I was I would do a couple of them after my exercise to kind of lengthen the workout, but like I got to get work done before school pick up and all that, right? So now I do saunas at night. My husband and I have this ritual we like to do it before bed. I put a video on how heat stress also can improve sleep. So that is something that I do a couple of hours before bed. These days I've been doing I switch between the sauna. We also have a hot tub. I like I like being outside at night and looking at the stars. And so I I probably do that like five times times a week where I'm getting the heat stress before before bed. Um so that's my exercise. I don't really the cold exposure I'm I'm really just a seasonal cold exposure person. I do it in the summer. Um I I don't really keep it up in the winter. I'll totally admit it. I'll talk all about the science behind it, but like at the end of the day if I get my my hit and my my training is I know I'm that's the most important for me. Um when it comes to my my diet, you know, I've really increased my protein intake to meet my my exercise needs. So I used to really not work out like lifting, you know and now I'm I'm doing a lot of lifting and so I'm trying to aim for it. I do about 1.6 g per kilogram body weight per day. Most of my meals like I'll have you know for breakfast it'll be just just some eggs. Maybe maybe I'll have like an avocado and then I do a green kale blueberry smoothie as well and then I take my vitamin let's see for lunch sometimes I'll just have like a salmon it's like salmon not salmon a turkey burger that's homemade so I do like more protein and then for dinner I'll have like a big salad or a lot of vegetables along with my protein chicken or salmon or turkey or red meat and then I take a lot of vitamins. Oh, I also take a lot of creatine in the morning so I do 10 g a day in the morning. And um and then in the morning my other vitamin is a multivitamin I do in the morning. I do my creatine and then I do some omega-3s in the morning as well and then at night I'm doing a lot of stuff. I mean I'm doing the magnesium. I'm doing more omega-3. I do the vitamin D vitamin K2. I'm doing niagen true niagen for the NAD. I'm doing gosh like what else am I doing? Oh, I do cocoa via in the morning which is like you know cacao one and I'm there's these are these are the core ones that magnesium I do I mentioned that at night but yeah I think there's like more that I'm missing. I do um Oh gosh PQQ um Yeah. Yeah. Like what else? Anyone seen my supplement list? There's like there's ones that I'm missing but melatonin right now cuz I'm jet lagged. Got back from China a couple days ago. But that's that's that's pretty much my nutrition supplement exercise. One interesting thing I learned about Ronda is her idea of a stack is much different than mine. So I'm going to use exercise next I think that's that's >> I do I do those. I like sit up and I'll I'll get up and I'll do my my my one minute like usually I do squats or I'll do burpees. Burpees like gets my heart rate up more than than just squats. I would if you were up to me we do burpees but there's no space. >> [laughter] >> Burpees everyone would hate me. Well, so Ronda just like all the speakers I didn't say this earlier but they're going to be here today. They're going to be around so if I sincerely apologize there were so many questions that came out I could not get to all of them. If you have questions she's available and again all the speakers will be so just one more round of applause please for Ronda Patrick. Thank you.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: rHKIs5Kcyo0 (https://youtu.be/rHKIs5Kcyo0) ===

Hello everyone, Dr. Rhonda Patrick here. Today we're embarking on a deep dive into a fascinating aspect of sleep health, the potential enhancement of sleep quality through heat exposure. It's been my personal experience that heat exposure along with appropriate cool down has helped me with aspects of my sleep. I'd like to share with you a little bit about why I think that happens and some of the complex cellular and molecular mechanisms involved which should equally apply to hot baths, saunas, and to some degree exercise. These include the release of ATP, increased adenosine levels, and the signaling of sleep regulating cytoines. In other words, aspects of our immune system that can promote sleepiness. Now, you might already be aware of the importance of early bright light exposure in resetting our circadian clock and the value of avoiding blue light exposure at night for optimizing sleep. These are significant elements in the realm of sleep hygiene. But today, I'd like to temporarily skirt past those fundamentals and focus on another intriguing avenue, the potential of passive body heating. What if the simple act of raising your body temperature through taking a warm bath or using the hot tub before bed or spending time in the sauna could significantly improve sleep quality. This isn't just an enticing theory. There's some scientific research supporting this. Passive body heating, in other words, raising your body temperature without exerting yourself through physical activity, has been shown to facilitate sleep onset. Likewise, taking a warm bath before sleep increase the proportion of slow wave sleep, the deep restorative phase of our sleep cycle that is important for staving off neurodeenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease. For our older population where sleep issues are very common, passive body heating could be an invaluable tool. A systematic review found that passive body heating can aid in sleep initiation and maintenance in the elderly, offering a non-farmaceutical approach to combating sleep disturbances. So, let's dive into heating. So, you know, there's heating elevating core body temperature via exercise. There's also elevating core body temperature um through different heat modalities like hot baths and saunas for example. But heating via exercise stimulates ATP release and increases adenosine and signaling of sleep regulating cytoines. So these include TNF alpha IL1. These are released from the periphery or from aststerytes in the brain. So let's talk about ATP release. So exercise increases the demand for energy in the body right that leads to the produ to the production and release of adenosine triphosphate that's ATP the major um energy you know currency in the body so ATP is a molecule that stores and provides energy for all the cellular processes including muscle contractions adenosine so as ATP is being used or utilized during exercise it breaks down into adenosine and adenosine is a neurom modulator that plays a role in promoting sleep. So accumulation of adenosine in the brain particularly in the basil forbrain is associated with increased sleep pressure that causes you to feel drowsy sleepy and it promotes the transition from wakefulness to sleep. Sort of as a side note, caffeine is binding to adenosine receptors and essentially, you know, blunting the effect of adenosine, any adenosine that's still left over in the morning from binding to those receptors and causing you to feel sleepy. And it's one of the reasons why you get that acute alertness effect from drinking caffeine because you're not then feeling that effect of adenosine. um the impact of adenosine binding to those receptors. So sleep regulating cytoines I mentioned also exercise stimulates the production of certain cytoines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha that's also known as TNF alpha or interlucan one or1 these are actually somnogenic cytoines they're involved in sleep regulation these cytoines are released from the periphery or from aststerytes which is a type of glyosell in the brain and they act on specific brain regions to promote sleep whole body hypothermia A therapeutic technique that involves increasing the body temperature to a level similar to moderate to high fever generally through use of infrared saunas and warm blankets has also been shown to increase the production of somnogic cytoines. TNF alpha and IL1 have both been shown to increase nonrapid eye movement sleep non-REM sleep which you know could could be referring to uh deep restorative phases of sleep. So in short summary of that se this section you know heating the body um particularly through exercise which does stimulate the utilization the release and utilization of ATP which then breaks down into adenosine and then that increases the signaling of the sleep regulating cytoines as well like TNF alpha1. Um these factors contribute to promoting feelings of drowsiness via the adenosine the somnogenic cytoines. They facilitate the transition from wakefulness to sleep. So they potentially then approve improve overall sleep quality you know and um you know the also the the deep sleep as well. But it is important to know that exercising too close to bedtime might have the opposite effect due to the incre increased the acute effects of the increased alertness and the increases in core body temperature without being able to cool down before going to bed. So it's generally I think re recommended to engage in exercise um earlier in the day or just not right before bedtime. So you want to you want to at least do it a couple of hours before bedtime to allow the body to cool down to promote more restful sleep to allow the alertness and your brain to kind of calm down as well. Um of course like any exercise is better than none but uh when when we're talking about it in the context of of sleep um it is better to try to not do it literally like right before you're going to go to bed. So the effects of heat and exercise. Let's talk about some very interesting effects that we that we've definitely discussed in the past. Growth hormone and prolactin are they're two key hormones that are important in the regulation of slowwave activity. The relationship between growth hormone and sleep appears to be birectional. On the one hand, the majority of daily growth hormone secretion occurs in the initial phase of slowwave sleep. On the other hand, growth hormone and its releasing hormone, growth hormone releasing hormone have also been shown to promote sleep, particularly slowwave sleep. Regular sauna use is probably one of the most powerful stimuli that increases both growth hormone and prolactin. So, uh growth hormone the effects of sonnie use on growth hormone levels really depend on many factors including duration, temperature and frequency. So for instance, two 20 minute sauna sessions at 80° C with 30 minutes of cooling period in between can double growth hormone levels um basically from their baseline. On the other hand, two 15minute sauna sessions at about 100° C dry heat separated by a 30 minute cooling period can cause a five-fold increase in growth hormone levels. So there's also a really remark effect um when you do sort of repeated sauna use. So repeated sauna use, for example, you do one uh you do two 1-hour sauna sessions at 80° Celsius. This is very very high uh for 7 days in a row that leads to a 16-fold increase in growth hormone levels in men. That's not something uh it's just it's kind of just as a proof of principle example of how there is a dose dependent effect of heat stress on growth hormone. And um and that's something again that is temperature and duration dependent. Uh I don't I don't necessarily think it's good to do that much heat stress. That's pretty intense. But I just wanted to highlight the effect that sauna use does have on growth hormone levels. The heightened growth hormone levels typically last a few I would say more like a couple hours after sauna use. They really after about two hours they start to go down close to to to baseline levels. Um it's also kind of interesting that combining exercise with heat stress or sauna use may also increase growth hormone levels even further than when you just use for example sauna alone. Um, and mostly it probably has to do with the again your your elevations in core body temperature going even higher than one than one alone, right? The release of prolactin alongside growth hormone is one of the classic responses to heat stress. Prolactin is a hormone produced in the pituitary gland that is known for its role in lactation in women. But it also has various other functions. One of these is its role in the regulation of sleep. Prolactin has been found to increase during sleep and particularly during REM sleep. It's also been suggested that it may help to promote slowwave sleep, the deepest phase of non-REM sleep. So, in one study, introvenous administration of prolactin in humans was found to increase slowwave sleep. Moreover, some research has suggested that sleep disturbances such as insomnia can occur in conditions with prolactin deficiency. Prolactin. In one study, um, men that used the sauna, they were in the sauna for an 80° uh, Celsius sauna until they felt exhausted. They had a t-fold increase in prolactin levels. In another study, women who did a 20inut dry sauna twice a week had a 510% increase in prolactin levels after each sauna session. And similar to growth hormone, prolactin levels lasted for a couple of hours. Um there are some other lifestyle factors in addition to sauna use potentially even hot baths again something that is going to elevate core body temperature. Exercise is one. So exercise can also increase both growth hormone and prolactin. I don't know um the exact quantitative numbers and how much but they also do increase it. And then um sexual activity is another one that also increases uh both bo uh prolactin. So you know the effects of a growth hormone and prolactin um also again affect slowwave um deep sleep. And so the idea is that you know doing doing these these activities a a a couple of hours. So, you want to make sure you're not doing again right before bed because you you want to allow your body time to cool down. And if you're if you get in the sauna literally like like right before bed, you might still be really hot and you won't cool down unless you then, you know, perhaps get into a cold plunge or um do a do a cold shower to cool down. But, um doing it like, you know, a couple of hours before bedtime seems seems like a good time. It's typically when I do my um hot tubs. I do a lot of hot tubs in the evening and I do them a couple of hours before I I go to bed. So, um that's all I think super interesting stuff that we haven't talked about before. Uh heating activates warm sensitive neurons in the hypothalamus that promote slow wave activity in response to increased core body temperature and skin temperature. Yet again, another potential mechanism behind why sauna use, why hot baths um and even exercise, which elevates core body temperature may promote slowwave deep sleep. And then um exercise combined with body cooling and warm baths combined um you know with body cooling also um you know may help again to promote slowwave activity in deep sleep. There are a variety of sauna and hot tub or hot bath protocols that could be derived from the scientific literature on sauna use and longevity and potential effects on sleep. An example of a sauna protocol could be 20 minutes in a at least 176° Fahrenheit sauna at least 1 to two hours before bed allowing the body enough time to cool down before sleep. That may vary in terms of the time it takes someone to cool down before sleep. But what if you don't have a sauna or even a thermometer? An example of a hot tub or a hot bath protocol would be a temperature of around 104° F for 20 to 30 minutes with as much of the body from shoulders down submerged as possible. For hot baths, you may need to add more hot water throughout to keep the water temperature at around 104. So in that case, the thermometer may be helpful to monitor the temperature. For me personally, I have a pretty good sense of how hot I feel when I'm in the sauna for 20 minutes. So, by knowing that, I can sort of also make an approx approximation with how I feel in a hot bath. So, again, timing may be important by allowing the body enough time to cool down, ideally a couple hours before sleep. Some of you may enjoy a cool shower afterwards, which may also help cool the body down. To tie this all together, passive body heating, whether through a hot bath or a hot tub or a sauna or through physical activity, may be a really useful way to improve sleep quality, especially slow wave sleep. Rather than being a substitute for good sleep hygiene, it potentially adds a whole new dimension to it. Learn more on the fundamentals of sleep hygiene by listening to my interviews with experts Dr. Matthew Walker, Dr. Dan Party, and Dr. Ashley Mason in episodes 45,8 and 67. I'll add a link to those in the description. You can listen to them here on YouTube or get them on Apple Podcast or Spotify. Several segments of this episode were taken from a recent live question and answer session. I host one of these every single month exclusively for my premium members. Being a premium member not only gets you access to these Q&A sessions where you can ask questions directly, but also a myriad of other benefits. You'll get access to a membersonly podcast called the Aloquat, a twice monthly science digest, and a stockpile of over 100 member episodes of various types spanning many, many hours. So, if you're not a member yet, I encourage you to consider joining our premium community by heading over to foundmyfitness.com and clicking become a member. Thank you so much for your support, and as always, thank you for tuning in. Don't forget to hit the like button, share this video with someone who might find it useful, and I'll see you in the next episode.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: f20HNxZdGvU (https://youtu.be/f20HNxZdGvU) ===

[Dr. Patrick]: Hello everyone. I'm sitting here with Dr. Ashley Mason, who
is the director of the Sleep, Eating, and Affect Laboratory at the Osher Center for
Integrative Medicine at UCSF. I'm super excited to have her here today. She specializes in various different non-pharmacological
treatments for changing behaviors, I guess, whether that's sleep or eating behavior disorders,
or affect disorder. So mood disorders. And I've had two of your former mentors on
the podcast, Dr. Elissa Epel, who I believe was your postdoctoral advisor at UCSF, and
your former graduate advisor, Dr. Charles Raison, who... [Dr. Mason]: One of them. [Dr. Patrick]: ...one of my favorite podcast
guests, who's done a phenomenal job on starting this whole body of research on the effects
of whole-body hyperthermia for treating affect disorders like mood disorders and depression. And so I'm super excited to dive into all
that with you today. But maybe we can start with some of our overlapping
passions with getting hot. [Dr. Mason]: Absolutely, absolutely. Well, thank you so much for having me here
today. Long-time fan of the show. It's really exciting to be sitting here with
you. And yes, I'm super passionate about sauna
and whole-body hyperthermia protocols and their entry into the space of treating mental
health disorders. I think it's a really exciting area. [Dr. Patrick]: So maybe you could refresh,
you know, the viewers' or listeners' memory, or even people that are not familiar with
the podcast we had with Dr. Charles Raison where he discussed... People are familiar with the term sauna and
they know, you know, a lot of people use the sauna, or they've, you know, seen it at their
gym. But whole-body hyperthermia is a new term
for a lot of people, and it's a really important one because that is what, you know, clinically
was used or is used to treat, or shown to help treat depression. Can you explain the nuance there with whole-body
hyperthermia and how that's different from just going in the sauna? [Dr. Mason]: Sure, sure. So it's an emerging field. And, like you said, a lot of people are familiar
with sauna. It's at their gym, it's maybe even in their
house, it's when they go on vacation. And going in the sauna and sweating and then
leaving it is very pleasurable. It is often relaxing, calming. People enjoy doing it. They often report that they feel better afterward. Whole-body hyperthermia protocols are a little
bit more intense. So if you ask someone who went into one of
the saunas, in one of the studies that I'm sure we're going to talk about today, they
might just not tell you it was a spa-like experience. It's very intense, there's a lot of sweating,
and you get very, very hot. And, whereas with sauna, you might go in it
for 15, 20 minutes, go out of the sauna to cool down for a bit, go back in. With whole-body hyperthermia protocols, you're
getting heated pretty consistently for quite a while until you're on the other side and
you're going to be done. It's not so much a going in and going out
and going in process. And with whole-body hyperthermia protocols,
especially in studies, there have been a lot more steps to control the experience than,
say, going to a sauna at your gym. We can get into what some of those are if
we want to talk about the specific studies. But they're pretty different experiences,
although they both involve heat. [Dr. Patrick]: And maybe, like, let's talk
a little bit about some of the preliminary findings that got you interested in this research
in the first place. [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, absolutely. So in 2016, this paper came out by Janssen
and a bunch of other co-authors where they reported on a whole-body hyperthermia protocol
that they had used to test as a treatment for clinical depression. And this study was impressive for a number
of reasons. They recruited 30-some-odd participants who
had pretty significant depression. And they randomized half of them to get a
whole-body hyperthermia treatment, or half of them to get a sham whole-body hyperthermia
treatment. And I'm going to talk about what the differences
are there in a second. But it was a very good idea for a placebo
condition for this study. So the whole body hyperthermia condition,
the folks randomized to receive this were put into a kind of whole-body hyperthermia
machine that involved infrared heating lamps. And this is a pretty fancy machine. They run about $50,000. You only find them in hospitals. They're made in Germany. It's called a Heckel. And it's a pretty involved experience. So these people who were randomized to receive
whole-body hyperthermia went into this sauna tent, if you will, the Heckel machine, and
they were heated until they reached a core body temperature of 38.5 degrees Celsius. After that time, the sauna was turned off,
and they stayed in there anyway for another hour just lying there. And during that time, their temperature actually
continued to rise all the way up to about 38.85 or so degrees Celsius. And all during that time, they are sweating,
sweating, sweating. They're hot. And what's really important to know about
the sauna tent is that their head is outside of the sauna. So you asked about the differences between
regular sauna and whole-body hyperthermia, this is a major one. When you go into a sauna, your whole body
is going into the sauna, including your head. With these whole-body hyperthermia protocols,
in many cases, your head is not in the heating element, it's outside of it. So you can be drinking, a person can be attending
to your head, putting cool cloths on it, and so on, like they did in that Janssen study. Now, the other half of the people who didn't
get the whole-body hyperthermia, they were actually put in that same machine, but it
wasn't turned on to be very hot. And the lamps turned on, and they got a little
bit warm, but they didn't get anywhere near as warm. I think it was like 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit
that the control condition got into. And what's more is that the authors of the
study actually asked all of the participants, "So what do you think you got? Do you think you got the real deal, the whole-body
hyperthermia, or do you think you got the control condition?" Some 71% of people in that control condition
thought they got the actual sauna treatment. So why is that exciting? Because when you actually look at the change
in the depression scores for these people, it was pretty remarkable. The drops in depression within a week were
pretty impressive. And what's more, those drops were maintained
six weeks later. And this was one whole-body hyperthermia session. And so the difference between the groups was
pretty notable six weeks out, and especially one week out. And this study caught my eye for a few reasons. One is that, as a whole, in this country,
in many other countries, we're not just great at treating depression. It's a big problem. Antidepressants work for many people, therapy
works for many people, but we still have a long way to go in developing treatments for
depression. And when you see a treatment like that, with
that strong of a control condition and those effect sizes and those reductions in depression,
it catches your eye. So I got really excited about that, started
looking more into, "Well, what else has been done with this?" And it turned out there was one other study
in 2013, the Hanusch paper where they just recruited depressed participants, they gave
them the sauna session, and then they looked at them afterward. And there are some really neat, striking findings
about that study as well. But it was a single-arm study, because there
was no control condition. But those two studies got me really excited
and started me down this path, in particular with looking at temperature. [Dr. Patrick]: There was a couple of things
you said with, you know, Dr. Charles Raison's study, 2016 study, with this Heckel machine,
this whole-body hyperthermia, that are really important. And those are that, one, you said that there
was an effect within just a week of treatment, which is quite quickly. It's soon. I mean, like, if you think about classical,
like, serotonin reuptake inhibitors, SSRIs, which are used very, you know, widely for,
you know, depression treatment, they don't work that quick, they don't work immediately
like that. So that was one thing, to get your thoughts. And, two, the fact that they did one session
and it lasted six weeks. Like, they didn't have to keep going every
day or even every week. I mean, they just did it once, and it was
a six-week...like, there was a lasting effect. So what are your thoughts on...? [Dr. Mason]: It was a big moment for me. And what I realized when I was thinking about
that very SSRI thing was that, "Well, wait a minute, what do SSRIs have in common with
all of this?" And I went back and I looked at some of the
SSRI literature, and it turns out that one of the most common side effects of SSRIs is
hyperhidrosis, it's sweating. So then I thought, "Huh, sweating one of the
most common side effects of SSRIs. And yet, with whole-body hyperthermia, what
are we actually doing? We should probably actually go back into some
of the mechanisms a little bit here with this." But that really made me think, "Okay, wait
a minute, do we have actual data now? Has anybody published on whether sweating
in response to SSRIs is associated with if they're effective or not?" I'm actually not aware of a paper that has
done that. It'd be a great paper and a great analysis
to do. I hope someone is working on it. I'd love to work on it. There's a lot of data that we could use to
test that. But getting back to your question about, wow,
this works really fast. Yeah, SSRIs take weeks, can take months before
they start to work, whereas Dr. Raison noticed these effects in just a week in his study
design. And yes, they did last out to six weeks, and
they didn't measure beyond six weeks. So we don't know what happened, and that's
a key area of future research. But maybe we should talk a little bit about
the hypothesis underlying why this might be working. And that's where my mind went after I saw
that 2016 paper. I thought, "My goodness, what's going on here?" Well, it turns out there is literature showing
temperature dysregulation in people with depression. Back early 1982 and then '97, a researcher,
Dr. Avery published some work showing that people with depression often have higher nighttime
body temperatures, and they're not as good at thermoregulatory cooling. They don't sweat as much to cool themselves
down. And what's also been interesting is that there's
other work that shows that when people with depression get better, when their depression
symptoms lessen, their core body temperature also can decrease. And that's in the context of other treatments
that aren't related to sauna treatment, for example, electroconvulsive therapy, ECT. There was a paper that showed that with successful
ECT treatment, the patient's temperatures dropped alongside their depression. And from that Hanusch paper, that single-arm
sauna trial, what they found was that the decrease in body temperature was correlated
with a decrease in depression. And they measured that decrease in body temperature
pretty carefully. They were using an indwelling rectal probe. So they were really measuring it those five
days afterward, and that says something about the mechanism here with body temperature. [Dr. Patrick]: And thermoregulation, perhaps,
somehow, sauna use changing the thermoregulatory... [Dr. Mason]: Turning it on, possibly. [Dr. Patrick]: ...system somehow. [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, yeah. [Dr. Patrick]: Now, this is a...when you were
talking about, you know, clinically depressed people, you know, most people experience depressive
symptoms in their lives because of events that happen, maybe a death of a loved one,
or stress from work, or financial stress, or relationship stress. I mean, there's a lot of life experiences
that can cause, you know, like, people to be sad. But you're talking about something different
here, right? You're talking about a clinical type of depression,
which isn't just, you know, feeling sad, you know, or anxious because of a certain experience. You're talking about... [Dr. Mason]: Right. Being depressed or down most of the day, nearly
every day, for quite a few days. This is major depressive disorder, so it's
an actual mental health disorder. [Dr. Patrick]: Right. And those people, like you were saying, there's
a correlation between not regulating the body temperature, correctly and that type of [crosstalk
00:13:26.549]. [Dr. Mason]: In some studies, there are...some
samples...and, again, these are small samples, but what the researchers have found is that
these patients' body temperatures are higher and that when their depression symptoms improve,
the body temperatures decrease. So there's something there. And also that these people's body temperatures
just tend to run hotter than other non-depressed samples. [Dr. Patrick]: Do you know if...this is off-topic,
but do you know if stress itself or stress hormones, or, you know, something there changes
the thermoregulatory system? So, for example, if someone were to have,
like, some sort of serious stress, like death of a loved one or something, and the stress,
do you think that could possibly cause dysregulation of that system? Is there...? [Dr. Mason]: I can't speak... [Dr. Patrick]: Is that off the wall question,
kind of? [Dr. Mason]: I can't speak to the data, because
I don't know the data on that. But it seems plausible that if we become really
distressed and start to experience some of the symptoms that people with major depressive
disorder are experiencing, and we're experiencing them, and it's somewhat of a prolonged way,
that we could develop that. But we just don't have the data right now. There's a lot of depression that is situational,
as you described, a lot. But there's also depression that's biological. And so we don't know so much which camp that's
falling into. [Dr. Patrick]: Right. I think another plausible mechanism...I know
Chuck and I, or Dr. Charles Raison and I discussed this, and you and I as well in conversations
that we've had. But inflammation...and this, I know, like,
there are studies that have shown you can take a healthy individual who is not known
to have any sort of clinical depression, and you can inject them with lipopolysaccharide,
which is, you know, a piece of the outer membrane of bacteria, and it causes a very potent inflammatory
response in humans. You inject them with the lipopolysaccharide,
and they have an inflammatory response. They have activation of their immune system. The body's like, "Oh, bacteria. I got to fight it off. I don't want to get sick." So inflammation is generated. And, as you know, and we've talked about a
lot in the podcast, you know, inflammatory molecules cross over the blood-brain barrier,
and they disrupt neurotransmission in there, all sorts of things happening, you know, microglial
activation. And what's been shown is that people experience...healthy
people experience depressive symptoms after being injected with this lipopolysaccharide,
versus a saline control. So people, individuals that were injected
with saltwater, didn't have those depressive symptoms when they did some sort of questionnaire
or scale, which you're familiar with, probably, but not me. But what was interesting is that, in addition
to that, people were given a high dose of EPA, which is one of the marine omega-3 fatty
acids that's very potent at negating inflammation. And the people that were given that and injected
with lipopolysaccharide didn't experience the depressive symptoms. What I'm getting at here is that, you know,
it seems as though that study itself...and there's actually is more than one that showed
this. You could cause or induce depressive symptoms
in healthy individuals just by causing inflammation. And you could prevent that by giving someone
"something that's anti-inflammatory." Which I thought was so impressive and amazing
and important because, you know, inflammation, there's so many sources of inflammation. So many different lifestyle factors, obviously,
you know, sickness. I mean, people do feel depressed when they're
sick, too. But the sauna and inflammation and how the
sauna affects inflammation is a whole other interesting area, and particularly because,
you know, we know for a fact that...lifestyle factors that can improve depression. And, you know, your specialty is non-pharmacological
treatments. You know, of course, exercise is one of the
big ones, right? I mean, exercise has been shown in multiple
studies to help improve depressive symptoms in people with, you know, major depressive
disorder or have clinical depression. And, of course, it's not easy to get someone
who's depressed to exercise. But the fact of the matter is that it does
work, in some cases, not all the time, but it does work. And the sauna, and there's many different
ways that the sauna does mimic cardiovascular...moderate cardiovascular exercise. We have a lot of the same physiological responses,
the increase in blood flow to the skin, the sweating to cool down the core body temperature,
which increases with aerobic exercise. It also increases with sauna. Elevated heart rate, you know, blood pressure
changes, the blood pressure increases while you're exercising or while you're in the sauna,
then afterwards, it goes down even below baseline level, so lots of different similarities. And, of course, there's been head-to-head
comparisons comparing moderate aerobic exercise to sauna use. So there's definitely some overlap there. So, you know, what are your thoughts on, like,
well, maybe this is also helping depression in a similar way that exercise or specifically
cardiovascular exercise would? [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, absolutely. I think the pathway is totally plausible. But you hit the nail on the head. A lot of times, we would love it if we could
get people with depression to exercise. But that is just too much to ask, in a lot
of cases. It's also the case that not everybody can
necessarily just go and exercise. I know that sounds a little bit crazy, but
there are actually lots of people who have injuries or other problems that prevent them
from engaging in the kind of exercise they would need to do to have that antidepressant
effect, which is aerobic exercise, right? I think running is one of the most well-looked
at ones, and it works well for mild and moderate depression. Remember, a bunch of these studies have divided
out the depression by mild, moderate, and severe to look at which ones exercise works
for best. And I don't quite recall off the top of my
head at this moment which it was the best for. But getting people with mild depression to
exercise, I think, is much more feasible than getting people with severe depression to exercise. But if we're able to actually capitalize on
sauna, if people are more open to using whole-body heating practices, then maybe we have an avenue
in to get at some of those biological pathways that exercise is triggering, like you just
described. And that's why I think it's really important
to start measuring those pathways in whole-body hyperthermia studies. And I'm not aware of any whole-body hyperthermia
study looking at depression as an outcome that has measured those. So that's on our to-do list. [Dr. Patrick]: Right. Yeah. I mean, that's something... So you've got a couple of studies one that's
probably like...it was like a proof-of-principle-that-it's-safe study. [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, yeah. It's under review right now. We did a study...right before COVID struck,
we finished up this 25-person study to develop the protocol that we're going to be using
at UCSF for our future trials. [Dr. Patrick]: Maybe you can talk about why. So you talked about this Heckel machine, and
it's very expensive, and it's, you know, made in Germany, but that's not what you're using. [Dr. Mason]: No. [Dr. Patrick]: So maybe we can talk about
what you're using and why and your personal story about how you came to figure that out,
because it's pretty funny. [Dr. Mason]: It's a pretty funny one. So after that paper in 2016 came out and I
got all excited about the study, and I emailed Chuck, or Dr. Charles Raison, about it and
started talking about, how could we do this research? Well, it turned out it was actually really
difficult to do research with that machine without a lot of money and without a lot of
resources. And at the time, I was pretty junior at UCSF. I had just become an assistant professor,
just gotten my first big NIH grant and wanted to figure out, well, how can we do this? And not only can how can we do this in a way
that's feasible in science, but how can we actually develop something that could be taken
out of the hospital that is actually more accessible, that might even someday be able
to be in all kinds of settings, not just hospitals, maybe something that could be transitioned
into someone's home? And how can we make this more affordable? There's enough health care that's unaffordable,
let's not add to that list. So I decided to see what I could do, and gathered
a group of friends and said, "Hey, guys, we need to go and figure out if we can find a
sauna that can get our core body temperature up as hot as this machine can." So I went to Walgreens and bought a whole
bunch of thermometers, handed them out and said, "All right guys, here's the list of
all the different places to go and try these different saunas." And there was a Russian banya, there were
a bunch of health spas, there were some other spas that have started having these infrared
saunas. I have some friends who had infrared saunas
in their house by that time. And everybody just started doing a bunch of
testing for me. And we learned really quickly that man can't
get to that core body temperature, because you can't stand to stay in that long. In these protocols, the Janssen protocol and
the Hanusch protocol, people were in the sauna for well over an hour...two hours, in the
Hanusch case, and I think 107 minutes on average in the Janssen paper. That's a long time to be in that little device. [Dr. Patrick]: You'll never be in a 179-degree-Fahrenheit
sauna for that long. [Dr. Mason]: No. [Dr. Patrick]: Absolutely impossible. [Dr. Mason]: Absolutely not. [Dr. Patrick]: You shouldn't it would be detrimental
to your health. [Dr. Mason]: Very dangerous, bad idea. [Dr. Patrick]: So you were going around sticking
thermometers in your butt...rectal, right? [Dr. Mason]: Definitely, that's what everybody
was doing. [Dr. Patrick]: So that's the most accurate
way to measure core body temperature. [Dr. Mason]: Best way. [Dr. Patrick]: And what increase in core body
temperature? Was it a two, or two and a half? What was the degree? [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, looking for about...on
average, if people run their baseline between 97 and 99, right, a 2-degree temperature change
could mean a lot of things for different people. So I was really looking to see, could people
get to 101.3, because that was the temperature in the Janssen and Hanusch protocols. And it turns out the overwhelming answer was,
well, no. [Dr. Patrick]: What about the 20 minutes at
190? Where does that get you, 190 Fahrenheit? [Dr. Mason]: I don't know. There was only... [Dr. Patrick]: That's my typical sauna. [Dr. Mason]: There was only one place, I think,
that we could find that had a sauna that hot, and that was a Russian banya in San Francisco. All the infrared ones don't get that hot,
actually. And so... [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah, no infrared definitely
was like 140? [Dr. Mason]: They don't. One forty to 160 I think... [Dr. Patrick]: One sixty, okay. [Dr. Mason]: ...you can get up there. There's a bunch of variability, though. So, anyway, ultimately, I only ever had a
couple of friends who were able to get that hot maybe once or twice. And they said it was relatively excruciating. They thought they were going to faint. Like, you know, the descriptions that they
gave me would never have passed through the Institutional Review Board at UCSF. And I thought, "What am I missing here? What's the key detail?" But it turns out that key detail is having
your head out of the sauna. So then we rebooted and started looking around
for heating devices where your head is not inside of it. And, behold, found one of these sauna domes. And got a few of those, started testing that
out. And it turns out, you can stand to be in that
thing for a lot longer than to be in... [Dr. Patrick]: So this is an infrared sauna
dome, head out. [Dr. Mason]: Head out. [Dr. Patrick]: And it's like something you
can just buy on Amazon or something. [Dr. Mason]: You can buy one on the internet. There are so many kinds. Now, obviously, we had to pick a kind and
then had to do...we had to apply for something called a nonsignificant risk determination
through the UCSF IRB in order to be able to use it. I had to write up a whole protocol, say what
I was going to do, say how it was going to work, how I was going to keep people safe,
all of these things. They had to review it. It took about a year to get the approvals
to do that one first study. And you might be wondering, "Well, okay, so
people are lying in this tube..." Doctor Raison sent me his Mindray rectal probe
machine that I could use for the study, which is a rectal probe that's in there the whole
time. It's silicone. It's not a big deal. And no one in the study that I did with 25
people had any complaints or anything about it. As soon as they saw it, they said, "Oh, that's
not a thing. I can put that there." And it was no big deal. And in order to keep people able to stand
this for that long, we developed a whole protocol where a person sits at the head of the person
who's in the sauna and is giving them water when they're thirsty. And, most importantly, is using giant ice
cubes and cold cloths all over their head to keep them cool in their head. And it's remarkable what a difference this
makes and what a role it plays. And it helps people stay calm, it helps them
stay comfortable. Because we did some test runs with folks with
and, you know, without it as much, and people were overwhelmingly more comfortable when
they had ice on their face. Turns out, you do this protocol, people can
stay in the sauna. It takes about 70 to 80 minutes. It was comparable to the protocols from the
Janssen and Hanusch papers. And we were off to the races. So we did it with 25 people, and those data
are under review now. [Dr. Patrick]: What temperature was it, the
dome? [Dr. Mason]: It was about...gosh, it's hard
to say. I think it was about between 144 and 150-ish. It was not as hot as you would think. [Dr. Patrick]: And it was on the entire 80
minutes? [Dr. Mason]: And so that's another really
important thing. So I think there's a whole category of things
we've discovered from the existing literature. And one of the really important ones is that
the time that you are taking to get to that temperature also might really matter. When people got into those sauna tents in
those two other studies, they were cold. And then the researchers turned them on and
heated them up. And so that's what we did in our study as
well. They got in, we turned it on, and then they
heated up as the ambient air heated up. And in a recent paper that, actually, incidentally,
Janssen and Hanusch had written together, they reviewed some of the studies that exist
for looking at whole-body hyperthermia for depression. And one of the things they noted is that the
effect sizes of the change in depression from before to after the intervention, in other
words, the size of the reduction in depression, was higher if people spent more time getting
to that peak temperature. So longer seemed to be better. And, in hindsight, that's not really rocket
science. I mean, it makes a lot of sense. If you take a frog and you throw it into boiling
water, it jumps right out, because it says, "This is too hot, I can't stand this." But if you put the frog in the cold water,
and then you slowly heat it up, it can stand to be in the heat for a whole lot longer. And it's going to get much more of the effects
than the brief amount of time it was in the boiling water. So this paradigm where we start people cool
might have multiple effects. One, it might help people actually be able
to endure this treatment better. Because if you and I are thinking...oh, getting
into our 190-degree Finnish sauna, like, it's hot, the minute you get in you are going. But these people don't start with that shock. They're just like, "Okay, I'm lying here. It's getting warm. It's getting warmer." And maybe it helps them withstand it and be
able to do it longer. Because, as I said, it's not a spa treatment. It's not a walk in the park. It's intense. And so, I don't know exactly where we started
with that, but I got all excited about how this protocol is working. [Dr. Patrick]: What's interesting, though,
also, because you mentioned, like, for example, I get into this 190-degree, you know, Fahrenheit
degree sauna, and I want that thing hot when I get in. I don't want to waste my time, you know. [inaudible 00:29:18] be hot. I'm going to get in there. I'm going to sweat. But I'm also heat adapted. And, you know, there have been studies showing
that, you know, the more you expose yourself to heat, whether...or the more you elevate
your core body temperature, which can be through, you know, ambient heat, so like a sauna, or
a hot bath, or a steam shower or... [Dr. Mason]: Exercise. [Dr. Patrick]: ...yoga or exercise, the more
adapted you become. So your body starts to sweat at a lower core
body temperature to cool yourself down. All these other physiological changes start
to happen. Your heart rate variability, you know, improves. All those things happen when you're adapted. And when you're adapted, it becomes easier. It's like, "Oh, I'm sweating at a lower core
body temperature, so I'm feeling cooler, and I can stay in easier," right? And also heat shock proteins. We'll talk about biomarkers for heat shock
proteins, which are proteins that are, you know, classically known to be involved with...you
know, they're stress response proteins. So heat is a form of stress, and they get
activated with many types of stress, but heat is one of them. And they basically protect proteins inside
of your cells from aggregating and becoming misfolded and forming plaques and disrupting
things. They also help prevent muscle atrophy. They play a role in preventing your muscles
from atrophying. And they play a lot of neuroprotective roles
and neurodegenerative...they do a lot of things. But they also kind of help your body deal
with the heat stress, and this is part of the adaptation. And so people with, like, higher levels of
heat shock proteins, so people that are heat adapted, they increase their heat shock proteins
upon exposure to heat sooner than people that are not adapted. And so, kind of, what you're saying makes
sense where you're not just shocking them all at once, but they might be slowly adapting
in a way, you know, like, on a physiological level. [Dr. Mason]: It could be, and it's their first
time, so it's very new. They're not adapted in any way to that yet. [Dr. Patrick]: Totally. I've noticed, like, with, for example, my
mom, who...boy, she can sweat at, like, the minutest little temperature change where she's
like, "It's hot here. Where's my fan?" you know? So I've been getting her in our sauna, and
the first time she got in, it was like five minutes. And I did it at 165, which is typically what
a lot of gyms are at, 165 Fahrenheit. She was like, "I couldn't..." She couldn't stand it for more than five minutes. And I said, "That's okay. It's your first time, you know." And then the second time she did it, she was
in there less than 10, but it was more than 5, you know. And then now she's like, you know...I mean,
she can stay in there 10. But sometimes what she'll do is she'll stay
in there for 10 and then get out. She'll get on the lower bench. She'll get out for a couple of minutes and
then come back in. But the first couple of times, it was like,
"I can't do this. This is too much," you know, "for me." [Dr. Mason]: That's why it's so important
to develop these protocols in ways that people will actually do them. Because as much as we wish, you know, we could
have people do all kinds of things, exercise or eat certain things. If people won't do it, then it won't work. [Dr. Patrick]: Right. Yeah. And you mentioned this also, which is a very
important point, is there are a lot of disabled people. Like, there are people that can't go for a
run, whether it's joint injuries or something more severe. I mean, there are people that can't do, like,
aerobic exercise. And there are also people that have never
done it in their entire life, and they're older. And it's like, good luck getting someone who's
never been physically active to, like, start being physically active in their six-decade
of life. It's really hard. So the sauna, it's not only, like, you know,
more applicable in the sense that people are more compliant, because it's easier to go
sit in something than it is to go for a run. But, I mean, people that can't go for a run,
like, physically, that's amazing, right? I mean, being able to do that. [Dr. Mason]: And I think that's where this
comes in, too, for thinking about cardiovascular disease, which I know you've thought a ton
about, and you gave that talk about, and, you know, it's a big theme. And one of the things we should definitely
mention is that cardiovascular disease and depression, those often happen together. And so there's a large group of people who
are struggling with cardiovascular problems, and also depression, for whom this may be
a treatment that could have an effect for both conditions. So one of the other aspects to think about
when developing a protocol like this is, can we use it for other conditions too not just
mental health, but maybe also other physical health conditions that are affected by exercise
and heat? [Dr. Patrick]: Right. So let's talk about the...so you're now doing
a study. [Dr. Mason]: Yes. [Dr. Patrick]: Hopefully, you're starting
soon. COVID's delayed it a bit. It's delayed much research in the world. But let's not talk about that. So this new study that I'm super excited about,
and I get to play a very small role, collaborative role with you. [Dr. Mason]: It's going to be so fun. [Dr. Patrick]: Let's talk about it. Because biomarkers, which is where I come
in with my enthusiasm... [Dr. Mason]: Absolutely. [Dr. Patrick]: ...and being able to look at,
you know, how a sauna may affect people with depression at, you know, like a real molecular
level, right? [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, in the cells. [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah. So let's talk about that study, which hopefully
will start very soon. [Dr. Mason]: So we're really looking forward
to this study. It's going to be a three-year project to do
this pair of two studies. The first study will be 16 people, and everybody's
going to get the same thing. And I'll talk about what that is in a second. And the second study is going to be 30 people. And half of those people get one thing, and
half of those people get another thing. So let's talk about what everybody is getting
in the first study. So, first of all, in both these studies, we're
going to measure all of those biomarkers. It's going to be pretty exciting. You've mentioned a number of them so far,
BDNF, heat shock proteins, inflammatory cytokines, gosh, CRP. There's a little bit of a laundry list we've
got going. [Dr. Patrick]: So people that don't know what
BDNF is, brain-derived neurotrophic factor. And what role does that play in depression,
just, like, generally speaking? [Dr. Mason]: My goodness. So I'm not up to snuff, I would say, on all
of the biological underpinnings with these molecules with depression. But there's... [Dr. Patrick]: It's one of the things where
exercise has been shown to increase, and it's thought that may help with neuroplasticity. [Dr. Mason]: Right. But there's been a whole bunch dating back
to Dr. Charles Raison's paper in 2007, called "Cytokines Sing the Blues," looking at how
depression may be quite inflammatory for some people who have it. And so we know that exercise is temporarily
inflammatory when you do it, but it's actually in a good way because of the adaptive changes
that follow from that. [Dr. Patrick]: The anti-inflammatory change. [Dr. Mason]: Yes, right. So the thought is, well, sauna is hopefully
quite similar. And we have a bunch of data that suggests
that it is looking in that direction. We still need to do the research, though. So in this first study, we will have 16 people
with major depressive disorder. We will recruit them. They will all be adults. And in addition to getting a whole-body hyperthermia
treatment, they're also going to get something called cognitive behavioral therapy for depression. So what is that? Cognitive behavioral therapy is a psychotherapy
used for depression. It's considered gold standard. It's a first-line treatment for depression. It doesn't involve medications. It's just a therapist who provides this treatment. It's pretty structured. It's pretty standardized. There are very specific tools that are often
used across all of the different ways of administering this treatment. But the idea is that thoughts impact our feelings,
and how we feel impacts our behavior. So, for example, if you have someone who has,
let's say, type II diabetes, and they come in and they say, "I'm never going to be able
to get my blood sugar under control. I'm never going to be able to do it. I just can't seem to stick to this diet. I'm always going to fail. I'm never going to be able to do this." When someone has those series of thoughts,
how do you think they feel? Not so great. They don't feel so great. And when you don't feel so great what do you
do? Well, the chocolate cake sounds pretty good. Maybe I'll eat some chocolate cake to feel
better. But then you eat the chocolate cake, which
reinforces the thought, "I can't do this. I'm never going to be able to stick to this
diet," and so on and so forth. So thoughts, feelings, behavior, thoughts,
feelings, behavior. And so interrupting that loop is a major part
of cognitive behavioral therapy for depression, and there's a bunch of different ways that
that's done. Anyway, this treatment is known to work. However, it doesn't work if people won't do
it. And what is one of the major reasons why people
with depression can't really get some benefits out of psychotherapy? They can't really engage, because they're
super depressed. Notwithstanding, of course, there are huge
problems with our medical health care system in terms of being able to get therapy. That's a whole nother can of worms that we
don't need to go into. But the point that I'm making is just that
if patients can't really engage in therapy, they can't really get the benefits out of
therapy. So, in this treatment, everybody's going to
get whole-body hyperthermia, as well as cognitive behavioral therapy sessions. Not at the same time. They might be on separate days, or they might
be on the same day, but one after the other. And you might be wondering, well, where did
this idea come from? Like, why give cognitive behavioral therapy
with whole-body hyperthermia? And that dates back to a few different things. And I think you and Dr. Charles Raison talked
about this during your discussion about some of the traditional origins of sauna. It's often been a communal process, Native
American sweat lodges. People don't go on those by themselves, right? It's a group. Or in the Korean kilns, or in the Russian
banyas, right? It's been a social experience. And one thing that Chuck told me about the
2016 paper and about that study was that, during the study, the patients who were getting
the whole body hyperthermia often started chatting. I don't remember if you guys talked about
this part or not, but... [Dr. Patrick]: Just from personal experience,
it's absolutely true. I mean, you become chatty when you're in the
sauna. And, like, you talk to people when...yeah. [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, started wanting to connect,
started wanting to...and so the research assistants went back to the investigators and said, "The
patients are talking. What should we be saying to them? What should we be doing?" And I remember when Chuck told me this story
and just thinking, "Well, if whole-body hyperthermia is making people want to talk more, and one
of the major reasons why people don't do well in therapy is that they don't want to talk,
and they don't want to engage, should we be pairing these things? Could using heat then cause people to be able
to be more engaged in therapy?" And so this is the ultimate mind-body type
intervention, right? There's no drugs here. And if we can develop something like this,
that gets around prescribing people medications, maybe this is a good way to go. So proposed this dual intervention with a
mind and a body component, and that's what we're moving forward with. So we're developing that combined intervention. And then in the second study, with the 30
people, we're randomizing half of people to just get the cognitive behavioral therapy,
which we know works. It's in the literature. There's reviews, meta-analyses showing that
cognitive behavioral therapy for depression works. Half people will get that and then half will
also get the whole body hyperthermia sessions. And we will see, does adding the whole-body
hyperthermia lead to larger depression decreases? And you might be wondering, "Well, why don't
you do it differently? Why didn't you just do just the sauna versus,
like, just CBT or something like this?" Well, it's really tricky ethically to recruit
patients with depression and then not provide them with a treatment that we know works. And tell them, "Oh, and by the way, don't
do anything else while you're doing this thing." That's a very, very tricky thing to do. The better thing to do is to say, "Okay, here's
what we know we have already. Can we do better than that?" One of the key gaps that we're addressing
is we're going to be giving people eight weekly whole-body hyperthermia sessions. [Dr. Patrick]: Right. [Dr. Mason]: So that's a lot. We're going to see, are people willing to
do this? Do they get more benefit this way? Because those other two studies that I mentioned,
they only gave one whole-body hyperthermia session, and we saw that huge drop one week
later. What happens if we give a second session one
week later? Are we going to see another huge drop? We don't know. We need those data. So we're going to be doing multiple whole-body
hyperthermia sessions. We're also going to be measuring body temperature
at night, during their entire time that they're in treatment, because they're going to use
a wearable device to do that. [Dr. Patrick]: When they're sleeping. [Dr. Mason]: When they're sleeping instead
of using, you know, an indwelling rectal probe. But that's kind of a hard sell to get people
to wear that for, like, I don't know, 10 weeks. I don't think they're going to go for it. We're going to measure depression symptoms
daily using smartphones so that we can actually see when symptoms are changing. We're going to measure all those biomarkers,
and we're going to have all these in relation to each other. And one of the things I really hope we discover,
too, is, how willing are people to do this kind of sauna treatment? And then, you know, obviously, seeing how
long it lasts. We're going to measure outcomes further than
one week and six weeks, obviously. But what my hope is, is that we might be able
to develop almost a booster method if, in the future, this seems like a good idea after
this next study. And I really hope it does. But you see on the internet that you can buy
all these sauna tents that you can use at home. You know, with people...there's always a picture. [Dr. Patrick]: Oh, people have them, yeah. [Dr. Mason]: And they've got their hands out,
and they're reading their magazine, and their head is out, and it looks kind of funny. You could see them on all the different websites. Well, what if we actually need to do a certain
number of this intensity of whole-body heating, like the kind that we're talking about here? But then at home, it can be supplemented,
and it could be maintained or sustained in this way. And that's a great model moving forward. Would people rather, you know, take drugs
that maybe aren't working so well, or maybe come with a certain number of side effects,
or say, "Oh, once a week, I have to sit in this thing for 45 minutes and read a magazine,"
right? So if we can develop a longer-term model for
maintaining wellness and maintaining reductions in depression symptoms, that would be a huge
win. [Dr. Patrick]: Well, you are really moving
this field forward. I know that Chuck's sort of moved on to other
types of research. And so, you know, these studies are, in my
opinion, opening the door for many other potential research studies. People could start to look at Finnish sauna,
they could start to look at stuff that people..."Well maybe we can just, you know, find an effect
by going for 20 minutes at 175 degrees Fahrenheit." You know, there's all sorts of research that
is opened up, you know, where people just don't even know to study this. The hope is that... [Dr. Mason]: There's so many open questions. [Dr. Patrick]: ...more people will study it,
you know, because...and then, can this be applied to like, a hot bath, or a Jacuzzi
or...you know. Because there are, as you know, like, small
clinical studies showing hot baths can improve with depressive symptoms and people with depressive
disorder. [Dr. Mason]: So there was a 2017 paper with
hot baths, and they did see that, two weeks out, that they had improved those symptoms,
but the reduction had faded some by four weeks. But, of note, again, that says something about
the temperature. Those people got into that tub at that hot
temperature, they weren't warmed up to it, and it was a pretty short hot tub. I think it was like 23 minutes or so. So yes, there are these small studies, and
taken together, we're starting to be able to see these patterns of what might matter. Being in there longer, getting to a certain
temperature, staying at that temperature, you know, these things. But there are so many research questions that
we need to answer in this field, but it's just positively overwhelming. But I'm so excited about the next pair of
trials that we're going to be doing. And I'm so glad that you're on board to be
doing all of this biomarker assessment with us, and it's going to be a blast. [Dr. Patrick]: The fact that it's happening
is almost kind of, like, hard to believe. I'm like, "Wow, this is actually happening
soon." So I can't wait for it to start. But... [Dr. Mason]: You and me both. [Dr. Patrick]: Let's move on to another area
of...really big area of your expertise. And that is helping treat people with chronic
insomnia and using non-pharmacologic treatments for chronic insomnia. Maybe we could start with...I mean, so many
people have sleepless nights. There's a lot of people that perhaps they
drink too much coffee later in the day, or they have a life event that keeps them stressed
and psychologically aroused or they're having too much bright blue light exposure inhibiting
their melatonin at night, so they're sort of becoming these night owls from, like, an
environmental, you know, stimulus perspective. What's the difference...like, chronic insomnia,
like, people that actually have insomnia versus someone who has a chronotype, someone who
has a genetic predisposition to being like a night owl, where they stay up really late
and then, like, sleep, like, most of the day? Like, there are people that just genetically
are predisposed to that. Can you talk about...? [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, absolutely. So I know you covered a ton in your podcast
with Dr. Satchin Panda about circadian stuff. And that is huge. And there's all kinds of ways that you can
mess up your sleep with light, and caffeine, and all those things. Chronotypes, whether you're an evening person
or a morning person, those exist. And I think the data are that, you know, some...it's
roughly a third, a third, a third. A third-ish of people are morning people,
a third-ish of people are evening people, and then a third-ish are somewhere in the
middle. And what does that mean? For a lot of people, that just means they
feel like they think best, they're their most creative, and they feel best at that time
of day. It's pretty biologically determined. Now, of course, we can perturb it with lights
and crazy things, but it is pretty biologically determined. And the way that our society is built, it's
to favor the larks, the morning people, not the night owls, right? Because we've got work, kids, school, all
kinds of stuff starts super early in the morning. And that's hurting the evening people in two
ways. One, it's forcing them to get up early. So they're missing out on sleep because they're
already going to bed late. And, two, they're not performing well because
the morning is not their time to shine. They don't perform that great then. They perform best in the evening. So society isn't set up so well for these
evening people. It's really biased toward the morning people. And a chronotype isn't necessarily a sleep
problem. It poses more health risks for night owls. But insomnia is something different altogether. Many people will experience insomnia over
the course of their lifetime. A lot of people think, "Well, wait, isn't
it super genetic?" Well, there's some genetics to it, like 20
to 45-ish percent of insomnia is genetic. But that means that a lot of it is not. A lot of it is due to our own experience,
our own behavior. And insomnia is really difficulty falling
asleep, difficulty staying asleep, or difficulty with waking up too early in the morning and
not being able to get out of bed. For this to be happening at least three nights
or so a week, for it to have bee going on for at least three months, and for it to be
distressing. That's key, it has to be distressing. So chronotypes and insomnia are pretty different. And every now and then, I get someone referred
to me who says, "Oh, you know, I'm an evening person, and I want to become a morning person
in two months, please. Like, that's my goal." And I say, "Oh, dear. I don't think that we can change that." And we can talk about ways to work with it. But changing a chronotype is not really something
you can just do. That's pretty biologically, genetically determined. But if someone is referred to me as saying,
"I can't fall asleep. This started like eight years ago when I changed
my job, and I got really stressed out because now I have to perform every Tuesday at some
sort of big meeting," or something like this. [Dr. Patrick]: What are the main causes of
insomnia? Is it stress? Is there triggers? [Dr. Mason]: Yeah. So there's a lot of different things that
can cause insomnia. A big one is change. It's pretty funny, when patients come to me,
I always do...I get halfway through an interview asking about a bunch of different things about
their sleep. And then in the middle of my interview, I
say, "When did this start? What caused this?" And by asking those other questions first,
I get all these other, like, useful details. But you'll often hear "Well, you know, I retired. I used to work 9 to 5, and then I retired. And I was all set up to play golf, go to brunch,
read books, do all these things, but then I couldn't sleep." Because it was a huge change to their schedule. They didn't have those zeitgebers anymore
during the day, things that anchor them to their 24-hour clock. They didn't have a time they had to get up. They stopped using an alarm. They didn't have to be somewhere at a certain
time, so that can be a major change. Other major changes that can lead to insomnia
are changes in relationship status, a breakup, losing a job, having a kid, raising a kid. There's a lot of different things that can
cause insomnia. However, things that maintain insomnia are
generally not the same things as what cause insomnia. For example, let's say someone loses their
job. It's really stressful, they get fired unexpectedly,
didn't see it coming, really upsetting, right? And so they can't sleep, because they're worrying
about all kinds of things, "Where is my next paycheck is going to come from? How am I going to do all these things?" And they start, you know, reading in bed,
and listening to music in bed, and trying to do calming things when they're not sleeping,
because they're like, "Oh, I can't sleep. I might as well read." Or, "Oh, I might as well watch that show. I guess I could just bring my computer in
here." [Dr. Patrick]: Facebook. [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, "I guess I could get into
it. I guess I could bring my computer in bed and
just start working on some emails, applying for some more jobs." And then all of a sudden, they're doing all
these things in bed. Fast forward three months, they've got a new
job, but you know what, they're still taking their computer into bed, checking Twitter
in bed, doing all these things, and then wondering why, when they put the things away to go to
bed, they can't get to sleep. Well, now, it's these bad sleep hygiene behaviors
that are perpetuating their insomnia, not the fact that they lost a job three months
ago. That's over with. They got a new job now. So the things that are perpetuating it are
the behaviors they actually used to try and help themselves earlier on. [crosstalk 00:53:47.521]. [Dr. Patrick]: Which then become bad behaviors. - Dr. Mason]: Huh? [Dr. Patrick]: Do they become bad behaviors? Would you call them bad behavior? Bad sleep behaviors. [Dr. Mason]: Oh, I would say it becomes bad
sleep behavior. It's like... [Dr. Patrick]: Okay, so you do something... Okay yeah, go ahead. [Dr. Mason]: I was going to say, things like
napping, things like...and I can talk a little bit about napping, because it's a double-edged
sword. But things like napping, things like trying
to sleep in on the weekends, using sleep pills, like over-the-counter sleep aids to try and
get to sleep, using things that aren't over-the-counter to try to get to sleep. Canceling activities, canceling workouts,
skipping them because you're just too tired. So starting to do all of these handicapping
activities that are actually detracting from what you really want to be doing, which is
building up adenosine during the day. And I know that you or Dr. Matthew Walker
talked about how caffeine impacts sleep, and how you really want to accrue sleep drive
during the day so that you can fall asleep at night. Well, guess what, if you're taking long naps
during the day, you're decreasing the sleep drive that you have at the end of the day
that helps capitulate you and asleep and keep you asleep. And if you never used to take naps because
you used to sleep fine because you didn't used to do all these other things, it's kind
of this feed forward process. And like you've talked about on many podcasts,
caffeine. I don't have a problem with caffeine, but
if you're drinking it later in the day, it's still very much active when you're trying
to go to sleep. It messes with all kinds of things. Similarly, you might develop patterns of using
your bright, bright computer screen very, very late at night, when you didn't used to
do that before you had a major stressor that happened. So all of these different kinds of behaviors
can perpetuate sleep problems. And in the treatment that I do, cognitive
behavioral therapy for insomnia, we focus on a bunch of things. We focus on sleep hygiene, and something called
stimulus control. We focus on something called sleep restriction,
which is not sleep deprivation. I'll mention that in a minute. Cognitive techniques, and then relaxation
techniques. So the sleep hygiene I just went over. Stimulus control is going back to basics with
the bed. Nothing in bed except for sleep or sex, that's
it. No listening to podcasts, no watching TV,
no fighting with your spouse, no wondering where your kid is going to apply to college. None of that stuff... [Dr. Patrick]: No iPads, social media. [Dr. Mason]: None of it in bed, stimulus control. The only thing we do in bed... [Dr. Patrick]: No phones in bed. [Dr. Mason]: No, oh my gosh. I've got stories about phones. No phones in bed, just sleep or sex. And that means that if you can't sleep, and
you're in your bed, and you're laying there worrying, you are violating the rule. You have to get out of bed, and you have to
go to the couch or go somewhere else and finish you're worrying or finish whatever you're
doing, and then you can go back to bed. And a lot of people don't like that. They think it sounds so hard and awful. But by the time someone's in my office seeing
me for sleep problems, I basically say "Look, treatment with me is five weeks of your life. How long have you been struggling with this
sleep problem? Worth it? I know you've been on my waitlist for at least
6, 12 months. So if you've been waiting this long to do
this, give it a college try, really do it. How much worse can it get?" And there's a really great book that can guide
people, by the way, through this whole treatment on their own, if you want, and I can give
you the link for that. [Dr. Patrick]: What's the book called? [Dr. Mason]: It's called "Quiet Your Mind
and Get to Sleep." [Dr. Patrick]: Okay, that's the one I just
ordered because you mentioned it. [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, It's great. [Dr. Patrick]: I got two copies, so I'm giving
one to my mom because... [Dr. Mason]: Outstanding. [Dr. Patrick]: ...she needs it. [Dr. Mason]: Dr. Rachel Manber at Stanford
wrote that book, and the foreword was written by Dr. Richard Bootzin, who was the professor
from whom I learned this treatment at the University of Arizona. So we've gotten through to...we talked about
sleep hygiene, stimulus control, sleep restriction. What that means is we take the amount of time
that someone is in bed every night, and we focus on that. Instead of just being in bed doing things,
what I do to figure out how long someone should actually be in bed is, the first week that
they are with me, they're given a wake time. They have to wake up at that same time every
single day for seven days. I always joke with them, "Any day ending in
D-A-Y, you have to get up at that time. Include Saturday and Sunday," right? And Dr. Panda spoke all about how important
it is to not wake up at different times and how that's like giving yourself artificial
jetlag, and all that stuff. So I have patients do that for seven days. But they go to bed whenever they're tired,
whenever they're actually sleepy. And we calculate how much time each night,
on average, are they sleeping. And over the course of that week, we get an
average per night amount of time that they're sleeping. Let's say that turns out that, on average,
you sleep seven hours a night, and that your wake time is 8 a.m. That would mean that in order to figure out
what your bedtime should be, I work backwards from 8 a.m. I go from 8 a.m. to 1 a.m. And then I add 30 minutes of grace, because
that's what we do. And so then I would say, "Rhonda, your bedtime
is the bedtime of your childhood dreams. Your bedtime is 12:30 at night. You get to stay up all the way till 12:30,
and guess what, not only do you get to stay up that late, you can't go to bed before then. You have to go to bed at that time or after
once you're sleepy." And what this actually does is this restricts
the amount of time that people are in their beds, the amount of time that they can actually
sleep. And pretty quickly, patients will start to
get pretty darn good quality sleep during that seven and a half hours. For the first few weeks, it's a struggle bus. They're getting out of bed when they can't
sleep, getting back in bed, etc. But, eventually, they're getting pretty deep
sleep during that time, pretty good sleep because they're building up so much sleep
pressure during the day. And then, during treatment, we extend it back
by 15 minutes a week as they demonstrate that they can keep their efficiency, at least 85%. What is efficiency? The amount of time that you're sleeping divided
by the total amount of time that you're in bed. And we have patients keep detailed sleep logs
about that. There's an example log in that book that you
just ordered. So we do that sleep restriction. Then we do the cognitive techniques where
we work with people's worries, and thoughts, and how those serve them, and how they don't. And how reflective of reality they are and
how much they need to be changed. [Dr. Patrick]: Thinking about that negative
Twitter comment or, you know, stress at work, you got deadlines, or, yeah, all those things. [Dr. Mason]: All that kind of stuff. [Dr. Patrick]: Where you're going to send
your child to preschool. [Dr. Mason]: Big one, big one. I've had patients come in, and their presenting
problem has been, "My daughter's majoring in English." I'm like, "Okay." So you get every kind of reason for people
saying that they have sleep problems. [Dr. Patrick]: Okay, so what do you do? I mean, how do you...that's hard to... [Dr. Mason]: It is. [Dr. Patrick]: ...deal with, isn't it? [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, yeah, there's a bunch of... [Dr. Patrick]: When I lay down, I mean, that's
one of my problems is, like, that'll become active. It hasn't been active all day, but when I
lay down at night, it's... [Dr. Mason]: You know, whatever we don't have
time to deal with during the day, or whatever we choose not to deal with during the day,
it's going to make an appearance at night. It's going to come in and swoop and say, "Hello,
here I am, like, you get to deal with me now when you want to be sleeping." So there's a number of different types of
tools that we use to work with thoughts and feelings. Have you ever heard the thought, "Don't believe
everything you think?" [Dr. Patrick]: Yes. [Dr. Mason]: "It can be pretty dangerous." Right. So that comes to mind. Working with thoughts...an initial way to
think about these approaches is that we identify what we call dysfunctional thoughts. So the thoughts that, you know, they're not
really serving us, and, also, they're not super true. So, for example, black and white thinking,
right? "If I don't nail this interview, my career
is over," right? Like, these complete black and whites. We've also got personalization-type things,
"Oh, that person left a negative comment in my Twitter. That must mean I am the worst presenter ever,"
right? So we can take these things. And then there's also my favorite...one of
my fan favorites is "shoulding" all over people, or "shoulding" all over yourself. "I should be doing this. I should be doing that. I should have that done," right? So these kinds of thoughts. Whenever a thought falls into a particular
category of dysfunctional thought...and I have a fun list that I can share with you
of different types of these, chances are the thought is not all the way true. And we do an exercise called the "thought
record" where we look at evidence for thought, evidence that it's true. We look at evidence that it isn't true. And I mean, we really look. I have spent an hour at a time on one thought
with a patient before, where we look for all of the possible evidence that it's true, all
of the possible evidence that it's not true. And then we have to develop a new thought
that acknowledges both the evidence that it is true and the evidence that it isn't true. [Dr. Patrick]: Can you give an example? [Dr. Mason]: I sure can. Let's pick a flavor. Let's say that you are having the thought,
"If I don't get a perfect night of sleep tonight, I am going to just bomb my presentation tomorrow." That's a horrible thing to be thinking about
right when you're trying to go to sleep, right? "Oh, I really need to sleep right now because
I'm going to be terrible on this presentation tomorrow." Well, what is the evidence that it's true? Well, maybe this person has before not done
great the night after a night of sleep. "Oh, I've performed less bad after a night
of sleep." Or, I'm sorry, "I've performed..." [Dr. Patrick]: Sleep deprivation, yeah. [Dr. Mason]: Yeah. "I've performed not as well as I usually do
after a bad night of sleep." Or, you know, "I've gotten feedback that my
talk wasn't so great after a bad night of sleep before." But then let's look at it isn't true. "There have been plenty of times I have performed
on a poor night of sleep. There was that time that I slept overnight
at an airport on the way to a conference, and I still pulled off the talk, and it was
fine," right? So we have to look at evidence that it's not
necessarily true. Also, I can't predict the future. I don't know if I'm going to sleep well tonight
or not, right? I haven't decided. I don't know. And then what we do is we developed an adaptive
thought, which is, "Well, although I haven't always performed my best on poor nights of
sleep, there are plenty of times that I've done just well, giving a talk after a poor
night of sleep." And the key thing with this is that, is that
adaptive thought just Pollyanna? No. But it's much more reflective of reality than,
"If I don't get eight hours of sleep, I'm going to bomb this presentation," right? So we develop a thought that is much more
reflective of reality, and then we evaluate how we feel. So, for example, when you have the thought,
"I am going to bomb this presentation tomorrow if I don't get eight hours of sleep." How anxious do you feel on a scale from 1
to 10? Let's say it's like a nine, pretty high. [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah, depends on the presentation,
yeah. [Dr. Mason]: Right, sure. But then if we have this other thought, if
we adopt a new thought that says, "I don't always perform my best after a poor night
of sleep, but I've done it a bunch, and it's gone fine." When we have that thought, our anxiety level
on a 1 to 10 isn't like a 9. It might still be like a 5, or maybe a 6,
but it's not as high. So we're learning how to match the appropriate
amount of the emotion to the thought that is more reflective of reality. [Dr. Patrick]: You've listed a lot of things
here. We've got the sleep hygiene, we've got the... [Dr. Mason]: Stimulus control. [Dr. Patrick]: The stimulus control, right. [Dr. Mason]: Sleep restriction. [Dr. Patrick]: And then the... [Dr. Mason]: Cognitive techniques. [Dr. Patrick]: Right. And then there was... [Dr. Mason]: And then there's relaxation techniques. [Dr. Patrick]: Relaxation, yeah. [Dr. Mason]: Things like progressive muscle
relaxation. Are you familiar with this one? [Dr. Patrick]: No. [Dr. Mason]: So progressive muscle relaxation
is a practice whereby you focus on different muscles in your body, tensing them, squeezing
them, and then letting them go, and squeezing them and then letting them go. And then you're focusing on a different part
of your body, and you're tensing it, and you're letting it go. And this way, you're getting out of your head
and into your body. [Dr. Patrick]: Kind of like the breathing
exercises [crosstalk 01:05:02.474]. [Dr. Mason]: It's a lot like a body scan,
except for in a body scan, which is more of a mindfulness practice, you're noticing the
part of the body. I'm noticing, are my hands warm or cold? And then I'm moving on to my elbows, are they
stiff? Progressive muscle relaxation is more active
because you're actually squeezing them. And what's always interesting to people is
when they get to their shoulders, and they go squeeze their shoulders, and they realize,
"Oh, wait, my shoulders are already squeezed, just let them go." That's another major part of this treatment. What I think you're about to ask is, what
are the most important ones? [Dr. Patrick]: Yeah, like, are they all equal? Are there some that are more important? [Dr. Mason]: No, they're not all created equal. And what we know from studies that have been
termed "dismantling studies," where they've taken this whole intervention, and they've
taken it apart, and they've seen, well, which pieces are most important for good outcomes,
we know that the pieces that are really important are the sleep restriction part, matching the
amount of time that you're in bed to the amount of time that you can actually sleep. And also the stimulus control, don't do anything
in bed that isn't sleep or sex. I often will ask people, "Do you sleep better
when you're traveling for work in hotels or on vacation?" And people say "Well, yes, I'm on vacation." And I'm like, "Well, what about when you're
traveling for work?" And they say, "Well, yes, actually, I do sleep
better when I'm traveling from work." "Why's that?" "You're not sleeping in your bed." "What do you associate your bed with?" "Sleeplessness, anxiousness, not sleeping,
being frustrated that you can't sleep." You get all these associations with your bed
that we need to fix in cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia. So we're reducing bed dread, and stimulus
control is very, very responsible for that change. [Dr. Patrick]: So this is a very effective
non-pharmacological treatment for insomnia. I personally know...I have a family member
that has insomnia, and they have gone to pharmacological treatment, very common. Ambien is a very common one. [Dr. Mason]: Very common. [Dr. Patrick]: How do you get...I mean, is
it possible to get...so I can tell you from, you know, listening to the experience of this
person, they are convinced they cannot see without Ambien. And, in fact, they've tried to quit Ambien
before. They've done this, like, you know, weaning
off. And, certainly, they've missed days because,
like, maybe their prescription wasn't filled, like, whatever. And missing it was, like, they can't sleep
at all. And it's like, "Well, what's going on if you
are completely, you know, dependent on this drug to sleep?" Like, that is terrifying. Not to mention the side effects with things
like Ambien where you've got... I'll tell you, like, this person, like, they'll
wake up in the middle of the night and just start eating, and not remember it. And do weird things like...just weird things
that they've done the middle of the night. And also, like, memory-wise, it seems like
it's affecting like...like, there's something. And there's a literature there that, you know,
there can be an association with dementia. And so how does a person shift from that to
cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, CBTi? [Dr. Mason]: Great question. So whenever a new study comes out in the news
about the effects of benzodiazepines on sleep, or Ambien, or Lunesta, or Sonata, or any of
these drugs on sleep, I get a new influx of referrals because people think, "I need to
get off these drugs now. Never mind that I've been on it for 30 years,
I need to get off of it this week." And the example you gave is great. When people try and quit, like, just by quitting,
for example, they don't sleep, or if they try and taper it themselves... [Dr. Patrick]: And then they don't want to
quit. [Dr. Mason]: And then they don't want to quit. It's a vicious cycle. [Dr. Patrick]: It is. [Dr. Mason]: It's really hard. And so what I often will notice about folks
who want to quit medications is that they're pretty anxious about it. No one's really very calm about quitting Ambien. It's not just this easy transition, adding
a new vitamin, for example. So what I do is I work with providers because,
yes, using CBTi, cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia, as part of your plan for quitting
medications is a totally great one. And I'm not a prescriber, I'm not a physician. I'm a clinical psychologist. And so I work with the prescribers, which
are generally psychiatrists, sometimes internal medicine doctors, on a taper plan. And you mentioned that your family member
has tried a taper plan before. The approach that I've taken over the past
many years has been what I would call an extraordinarily extended taper plan. Most of these sleep drugs are pills that you
can cut with razor blades. They don't come in very convenient, small
sizes. I think the smallest Ambien you can get is
5 milligrams. And so what I have people do is I have them
by gem scales on Amazon or whatever. And these scales can measure .0 to like .00
of a gram, like, very, very small amounts. And instead of going from 5 to, let's say,
cutting it in half, just to 2.5, we'll go from 5 to 4.9 for a few weeks. And I challenge people to detect the difference
between 4.9 and 5 physiologically, but, psychologically, there's something there. People need to get used to this idea that,
"Okay, I can fall asleep with less than 5 milligrams of Ambien. I can fall asleep with 4.9 milligrams." Now, some people, I always gauge how anxious
they are about the change. If going from 5 to 4 sounds really stressful,
we go from 5 to, you know, 4.9, or whatever it is. And using this really, really slow process
both reduces the physiologic rebound insomnia that you described, like when the prescription
wasn't refilled, and you skipped it for a night. So we avoid that. And then we also avoid the anxiety aspect
of reducing too quickly or being anxious about reducing it by reducing very, very, very slowly. And it's not rocket science, but that's what
I do with people. It can take six months to get off of drugs. It can take longer. But if you do it in this slow, steady way,
you don't get the reactivity with it. And one of the major aspects of cognitive
behavioral therapy for insomnia that we get away from is reactive medication use. People try and go to bed, and then if they
can't sleep, then they get up and take a sleep medication. In CBTi, what we do is we standardize it. You take the same dose of the same medication
every night, period. That way, it's not reactive. You're not, you know, perturbing your circadian
rhythm at different points in the cycle throughout the night with medications. And, this way, we're removing some of that
anxious questioning of, "Am I going to take drugs? Should I skip it tonight? Should I try and da, da, da tonight?" from
the equation. [Dr. Patrick]: But CBTi probably helps for,
you know, someone who is trying to taper themselves off a pharmacological treatment for sleep
insomnia probably helps, because now they're thinking, "I'm getting this other thing, and
this other thing works. It's clinically shown to work." [Dr. Mason]: Yes. And it's fixing all the things that their
sleep medications sometimes aren't. [Dr. Patrick]: Right, underlying... [Dr. Mason]: Making your wake time consistent... [Dr. Patrick]: ...addressing the issues, right. [Dr. Mason]: All of the other issues. [Dr. Patrick]: Right, that's causing the actual
insomnia, because something is causing it, you know, in most cases. [Dr. Mason]: Generally, our own behavior that
we've actually done to try and help ourselves. [Dr. Patrick]: So you mentioned the book again. Can you say the title of the book? What was it? [Dr. Mason]: "Quiet Your Mind and Get to Sleep." [Dr. Patrick]: Now, is there a thing...like,
do people...obviously, like, you said you had a waitlist of like 6 to 12 months people
to get treatment. [Dr. Mason]: It has been. [Dr. Patrick]: Doesn't seem like it's a very
easily accessible thing for people, whereas a lot of people have insomnia. So can people do things like read this book,
or is there other ways they can do cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia? [Dr. Mason]: Yes, yes. So that book is great. And I should say it's by Rachel Manber and
Colleen Carney. And there is a great association and website,
and I can give you the link for that, where people can go type in their zip code, and
they can find providers who can do this treatment near where they live. And it's a very well-known, good way of actually
finding providers who know how to do this treatment. [Dr. Patrick]: What's the name of the website? [Dr. Mason]: Oh, I'm completely blanking on
it right now. But I feel like it's, like, Academy of Behavioral
Sleep Medicine or something like this. [Dr. Patrick]: So we'll put that in the show
notes where people can find that. [Dr. Mason]: Yeah so people can find that. And, you know, there are...that book, for
a lot of people, they can use that book. They can do it themselves, and they can improve
their sleep on their own if their problem isn't super severe. But there are other apps that I'm aware of,
I think there's an app called Sleepio, and it's a cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia
app. And I believe that it's...I'm not sure exactly
how people can get it now. I think there's some healthcare plans you
can get it through your employer. It's kind of a strange way of getting to it. But there are some apps. There's Insomnia Coach, which I think is maybe
still free. I think the VA actually put one out that anybody
can use. And that's in Google Play and iTunes stores. But finding people who can do this treatment
through the website, that website is great. It's, unfortunately, harder to find than it
should be, because the American College of Physicians did say that this should be the
first-line treatment for insomnia before a medication for sleep problem is prescribed. [Dr. Patrick]: But it's not. It's not. [Dr. Mason]: But it's not, because it is difficult
to get insurance, all kinds of issues. [Dr. Patrick]: It also takes time. [Dr. Mason]: Time and effort. [Dr. Patrick]: Effort. [Dr. Mason]: And it's not easy. And I always tell patients that they're not
going to like me very much in week two and three. You're going to want to make a dartboard with
my face on it and just play with it, because you're not going to like waking up in the
middle of the night, getting out of bed, having to follow all these crazy instructions. But I always just tell people, "Give it five
weeks," because that's how long the version I do is. "If you don't give it a shot, you're never
going to know if it works." [Dr. Patrick]: How long does it last? Like, do you have to continue doing it? [Dr. Mason]: That's a great question. It lasts for quite a while. There's a great paper that I always show patients
who are particularly worried about biology that shows how people's C-reactive, or hsCRP
changes during treatment compared...it's like Tai Chi versus a sleep seminar, versus cognitive
behavioral therapy for insomnia. Everybody got one of those three. And what they show is 16 months out, the people
who got the CBTi had the greatest reductions in their hsCRP and the biggest improvements
in their sleep, lasting all the way out to 16 months, and treatment only occurred in
the first 2 months. It's kind of like Santa Claus. Once you know Santa isn't real, you can't
unknow that. Once you learn the things you learn in CBTi,
you can't unknow them. And you know exactly... [Dr. Patrick]: So you're just applying them. You're just doing it, yeah. [Dr. Mason]: You know exactly how you can
make your sleep worse. [Dr. Patrick]: So it reduces inflammatory
biomarkers like high sensitivity, C-reactive protein, hsCRP. That's interesting. [Dr. Mason]: When your sleep improves, all
sorts of things improve. [Dr. Patrick]: So it's like a downstream effect
of... [Dr. Mason]: Sure. [Dr. Patrick]: Cool. [Dr. Mason]: So, yes, it can last quite a
while. And some people find that they can build more
flexibility in. Some people find, "You know what, I need to
be rigid about this, and it's okay because I'm rewarded with better sleep." I once had a patient who, for 52 weeks after
finishing treatment with me, he still did his Excel calculator sleep diary every week. And he emailed it to me. And on the 52nd week, he said, "Dr. Mason,
this is the 52nd diary entry. I'm going to stop sending you these, but you
can trust that anytime you want to see one, you email me, and I will send it to you." Because he had found that by just keeping
his sleep diary every morning for two minutes, that was the price he paid for improved daytime
function, better sleep at night, and just all-around better quality of life. So, ultimately, some people carry on with
it full bore for the rest of their lives. Other people realize, "Okay, I know how I
can be flexible with this program, and I can choose. I'm going to drink four glasses of wine on
Saturday night. I know my sleep is going to be bad. It's okay, I'm going to a winery." Make an informed decision about it. [Dr. Patrick]: Right. Well, I know we're...okay, we still have some
time. Let's move on to the last sort of area that
you're actively doing research on and that, you know, also involves a non-pharmacological
treatment for, you know, this sort of behavior that can...you know, in a way, it's like,
it's a negative behavior. It's insomnia or not sleeping, or, you know,
having...in this case, it would be overeating. Whether the overeating is due to stress, or
cravings, or some other sort of, you know, reason, as I think we'll get into more on
a reward-based sort of, you know, behavior. Let's talk a little bit about some of that,
because it is...I have people in my family...I'm sure everyone either is a person that's experienced
this or knows someone that is, like, eating junk food or drinking sugar-sweetened beverages. And it's like, "Stop. It's bad for you. I mean, can't you just stop doing it?" I mean, we know..."You know, you're going
to give yourself diabetes, you're going to, you know, potentially, like, lose a limb,
or have to be on dialysis, or you're going to get cancer. Or I mean, can you just stop doing it? Just stop drinking Coke." You know, why can't people just stop? Why? Why is it so difficult? Because it is. I mean, I've gone through every possible,
you know, science explanation in great detail on how terrible it is drinking soda, and it
doesn't matter. Because it gets rid of their migraine, makes
them feel better. And there's nothing...you know, or it just
makes them feel better. I mean, they have to have it. It's like, I just don't understand. So help me understand, because it's incredibly
frustrating. I'm the kind of person, I've got a really
good...I'm pretty disciplined, and, you know, like, I can stop things. I can pick it up and, like, keep going. And so, like, I just don't understand, why
can't people stop doing that? Like, sometimes I'm like, you know, like,
what else do you need? [Dr. Mason]: Ironclad resolve you have. Well, there's a few really important things
to unpack there. First of which is, does someone want to change
or not? If someone wants to change, says, "I really
want to lose 40 pounds, and I want to stop drinking Coke for my migraines every day. I really want to stop..." That's different than someone saying, "No,
I don't want to stop that. I like my Coke for my migraines. I'm not stopping that." Those are very different things, but they're
both very challenging. So let's talk about the first one. [Dr. Patrick]: Yes, yeah. Because, I mean, a lot of people know drinking
Cokes, like, do they want to get, you know, type II diabetes? Do people want that? I guess. So they know that this, like, could, like,
really drastically, you know, change the quality of their life. [Dr. Mason]: But a big scary thing 20 years
away is different... [Dr. Patrick]: Right, it's not relevant. [Dr. Mason]: ...than a really comforting thing
two minutes away. [Dr. Patrick]: All right, so let's talk about
the person that knows it's bad, would prefer not to be doing the bad behavior, but still
just can't stop. Let's talk about that person. [Dr. Mason]: Okay, let's start with how that
kind of came to be in the first place, right? And I'm going to try and bring the example
a little bit further on the pendulum closer to where you might have been one day or at
least know someone very closely, who has been. Let's say you're an academic, and you submit
a paper that you are just so excited about to get reviewed in a journal. And it gets rejected. And you're feeling terrible. And you walk by the office kitchen...pre-COVID
time, you walk by the office kitchen, and you see some doughnuts on the table. And you think, "I'm going to have a doughnut. It sounds really good right now. I'm going to see." And you have the doughnut, and it's rewarding. And in that moment where you were just so
down from the rejection of the paper, then you're so up eating this delicious, sugary,
rewarding doughnut. Then you're actually going to learn, "Oh,
all right, I'm going to remember this. I'm going to remember that when I felt bad,
I ate a doughnut and I felt better." And then the next time something bad happens,
you do it again. But the point that you're making is that,
yeah, although that person is feeling better in that moment, their physiology is not feeling
better in the long term. But in that moment, the doughnut is actually
serving as negative reinforcement, is removing a noxious stimuli. It's removing all of the negative experience
that I'm having from that rejection. It's taking away that rejection for that moment,
and I'm just enjoying that doughnut. And so by doing this, by learning this, I'm
learning that I can actually apply this in all kinds of areas of my life. "Oh, when bad things happen, I eat a doughnut. I feel better." It gets reinforced. But over time, I realize, "Oh, my jeans don't
fit anymore. And, also, I don't feel so great." And all of these other things. And I'm realizing, "Oh, no, like, this is
how I feel better. I need to change this, but I don't have another
solution." You might try eating celery instead. How does that work? If that worked, we wouldn't be sitting here
talking about this. Substituting doesn't work. Or, "Oh, I'm just going to avoid ever seeing
a doughnut again for the rest of my life." That's also very precarious. I don't think it's super realistic. You could probably do a lot of avoiding, but
still, then are you going to avoid muffins? Other things might serve quite a similar purpose,
right? So avoiding, substituting, these are difficult. So, instead, there are a few different...well,
there's a few different ways we can go this conversation. I'll go one direction first. One thing that we know can work, and this
is outside of the reinforcement thing is...well, actually, I'm going to come back to that. I'm going to stick with the reinforcement. So what we might do with someone who comes
in and says, "Yeah, I've got this problem with these doughnuts. I'm eating these doughnuts every time something
gets bad." What I might say to them is not just, "Stop
it," because that doesn't work. If we just tell people, "Stop it," no, doesn't
work. I might say, "Okay, doughnut-eating, it sounds
like it's a pretty important strategy." They say, "Yeah, it's super important. It solves, like, all of my feelings of rejection
all day. Like, it helps me deal with all of them." Say, "Okay, well, next time, I want you to
sit down with that doughnut, and really pay attention." And that person might next time then sit down
with that doughnut and realize, "This doughnut isn't very good. It's been sitting in the kitchen all day. It's a little bit stale. This actually isn't very delicious." And might kind of realize, "Oh, you know what? The real reward here is not actually very
rewarding." And then, as a result, they might get disenchanted
with this behavior. Like, "Oh, I actually don't enjoy this so
much." And another example I'll pull for you is actually
from quite a while when I was treating patients in a smoking cessation clinic, because everybody
knows that smoking isn't good for you, right? And yet, many, many, many, many people do
it. So I once had a patient come in, and he said,
"You know what, I love smoking. I love it." And he smoked many, many, many cigarettes
a day. A couple packs a day of cigarettes. And I said, "Okay, smoking is awesome. I'm going to ask you to smoke." And he was just shocked. I said, "I want you to smoke, and that's part
of your homework is smoking." All good. "Part of your homework is actually smoking." So I told him, "I want you to smoke, I want
you to really smoke. I want you to sit at the table. In fact, smoking is so important, I don't
want you to do anything else, no reading, no coffee, no TV, no, nothing, just smoking." And he said, "All right, no problem." And I told him, "I want you to rate how you
feel before and after you smoke. You got to make a whole, like, smoking notebook,
because smoking is so important." I mean, he was thrilled, right, because every
provider he'd ever gone to had said, "Stop it. Stop it now. Your peripheral neuropathy is going to get
worse. Stop." Right? And here I am sitting saying, like, "Smoke. I want you to smoke." [Dr. Patrick]: That means stop. [Dr. Mason]: Yeah. And so what he actually found was that, you
know what, he did love smoking. But he didn't need to smoke two packs a day. He ended up smoking just a handful of cigarettes
a day, four or five cigarettes a day, rather than the whole two packs. Because he found that, "Oh when I really just
sit and smoke, after a while, I really want to go do something else. I want to go read that paper, drink that coffee,
watch that game, do those things." So when he separated it out and got really
curious about the process, he did discover that he liked it, and he stuck with it. But for every story like that, there's someone
who slows down to smoke and says, "Oh, you know what, this actually tastes terrible. I don't like this." [Dr. Patrick]: And this is the mindfulness
aspect. [Dr. Mason]: This is the mindfulness aspect. And ofttimes, once someone slows down and
really sees the reward of what they're doing, "Oh, this actually tastes bad. I don't actually like this," they become disenchanted
with it. Because once you know that... [Dr. Patrick]: Although vapes don't taste
bad these days, right? [Dr. Mason]: Huh? [Dr. Patrick]: The vapes, there's... [Dr. Mason]: Who knows. [Dr. Patrick]: Anyway. [Dr. Mason]: But that's why I just tell people...that's
why I just advocate for really paying attention to what you're doing, and seeing what really
clearly is that reward. And what are you really getting from it in
that moment. And then, also, we can use other tools to
think about the future, which aren't necessarily the mindfulness piece. But just getting really clear about what that
reward is can then help us to no longer be so interested in that behavior. We don't have to use willpower to force ourselves
to stop, we're actually using our own experience, "Oh, you know what, those doughnuts are stale. I don't actually want that. I only know they're stale because I slowed
down long enough to eat it very slowly and carefully and really taste it." [Dr. Patrick]: So you're focusing on the reward
aspect, right, because you're kind of changing that. So you're talking about the trigger. Your example was the paper that was rejected,
but there's so many triggers. [Dr. Mason]: So many. [Dr. Patrick]: I mean, so many triggers. [Dr. Mason]: So many. [Dr. Patrick]: And then the behavior, which
is eating the doughnuts, and smoking cigarettes, and then they make you feel better, make you
feel good. "I feel good. My migraine goes away. I..." you know. [Dr. Mason]: Maybe. [Dr. Patrick]: But then when you're focusing
on it, what is it actually... "Is it making me feel good? Am I..." so you kind of can change that, is
that what you're saying? You can change that reward, feeling, or... [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, you can see it more clearly
what the reward is, and then, all of a sudden, it's not so much so rewarding. And you realize that, actually, there's a
different approach that might be more rewarding, which is rather than just eating that doughnut
to forget about my rejection, maybe I'd feel better if I just really sat down and worked
with my thoughts. [Dr. Patrick]: Now, have some of your colleagues...I
know that you work with, you know, many people on, you know, doing this, this sort of reward-based
eating research. But have they looked at, you know, when people
engage in this mindfulness activity for, let's say, if it was the eating or smoking or both,
and they're thinking about, "Okay, well, how does this taste? Is it... Oh, it's sweet, like, so sweet. There's nothing in nature that's this sweet." And they're thinking about it. And they're sort of...you're getting more
of a negative. Instead of a positive reward, you're getting
more of a negative thought, right? In the brain and the reward, does that activation
area, like a brain change from the mindfulness during, like, engaging in that mindfulness,
like, behavior or thought? Like, can you, like, actually calm down some
of the reward pathway? [Dr. Mason]: There have been a number of studies
with really serious meditators. And I would refer you to some of the work. I know Dr. Judson Brewer has done a bunch
of work on looking at actual brain activation in meditators and how, during meditation,
their brain pattern activation can actually change. And when we change our perceived reward value
of things, for example, yes, we can change those patterns in our brain. And one of the things that... So Jud and I actually did a trial together,
where we did a mindful eating intervention for people who said they have way too many
cravings that they eat in response to. And the sample was all overweight women. And we gave them this intervention where they
had to get curious about their actual behavior. They had to slow down, eat mindfully and really
look at what is the true reward of their doing. And we found that people ate in response to
their cravings a whole lot less after doing this training. And it wasn't an effortful intervention. It didn't rely on willpower and trying to
change. It really focused just on being curious and
being open to observing your experience. And that's what's so, so important. When we use different parts of our brain to
be anxious or to be fearful, it's more difficult to also be curious and open to experience. [Dr. Mason]: So we published a paper. So Dr. Epel and I published a paper a while
ago showing that if you ban the sale of sugary beverages, which we did at UCSF all over the
campus, and then you also give people a brief motivational intervention where you show them,
"Here's how many sugar cubes are in all the Coke you're drinking on a daily basis," and
you give them some information that's kind of this brief motivational interviewing-type
stuff, these folks will drink less soda over time. Yeah, so it works. Getting rid of it from your environment and
then doing brief interventions that actually communicate information, not in a very judgmental
way and not in a harsh way and not necessarily in a super scientific way, but just in a visual
way, in a way that might be a little bit surprising. Like, "Oh, this many sugar cubes," right? Some things that are different can help people
drink less soda. And if people are experiencing immediate rewards
with it, I would still encourage them, "Slow down. Slow down gulping that soda. How do you feel after one sip? How do you feel after two sips?" Maybe people will find that, "Oh, you know
what, I don't need 16 ounces. I'm really satisfied with 3 ounces, and that's
all I need." Maybe you don't have to eat the whole chocolate
cake, maybe just actually a few bites. If you really slow down and pay attention
to your experience instead of mindlessly eating the chocolate cake while you're watching TV
or slurping down that beverage while you're, I don't know, driving, right? So really slowing down and getting curious
about how your body feels and what your experience of the thing actually is can help you consume
less. In a perfect world, we consume none of the
things that are bad for us. But you know what, like you said, we're not
going to find a Twinkie in nature, that combination of fat and sugar with no fiber and no protein,
right? These are man-made delicacies that are very
hard to resist. So I think it's more of a, well, can we learn
how to enjoy these things up to the point where they're enjoyable? Like, maybe the first bite is enjoyable, the
second bite is good, third bite is good. Maybe the fourth bite, you don't feel so good
anymore about it. Oh, it loses a lot of the flavor by the fifth
bite. And then maybe we stop, and we're not eating
as much of it. It's harm reduction, right? [Dr. Patrick]: Do you think this focusing
on mindfulness, like when you're engaging in these "bad behaviors" or things that can,
you know, lead to negative health outcomes is something that can be broadly applied? So you mentioned two examples, like the eating
of, you know, bad foods, or junk foods, or overeating, and the smoking, but, like, there's
a lot of different bad...like gambling. Like, is this, you know, reward-based learning
and being mindful during the actual behavior and kind of changing the reward a little bit
just by being mindful of it? Is that something that [crosstalk 01:35:09.809]? [Dr. Mason]: Anything that's an addictive
behavior. Opening up Twitter, opening up social media,
gambling, you name it. [Dr. Patrick]: So how would you apply that
to being, like, having an internet addiction type of behavior where you're... [Dr. Mason]: Slow down. Get on the internet for two minutes, and then
pause. And check in with your body. How do you feel? How, emotionally, do you feel? Is that how you want to feel in that moment? How is reading comments in response to something
you posted on the internet making you feel, right? And then really evaluating, "Is this how I
want to spend my time? Is this..." So we can use those techniques, but they are
hard. Because scrolling on the internet has that
rewarding...you know, that dopamine hit all the people who've studied social media and
how our brains respond, it's pretty startling. And taking this pause isn't really rewarding. There isn't a natural reward there in pausing
and slowing down and noticing that the doughnut is stale, for example, right? So that is challenging. And, you know, I don't know, therefore, that
mindfulness is the whole answer to this. I think there's a bunch of other ways we can
work with these situations. For example, I do believe in environmental
interventions. If there aren't Twinkies in your house at
2 a.m., you can't eat them at 2 a.m., right? [Dr. Patrick]: Right, of course. [Dr. Mason]: So it's great to just set up
your environment such that it's going to promote the healthy choice. And, of course, there's going to be times
when you are out to dinner with friends, and you're having drinks, and you're ordering
food, and there's loud music, and there's conversation, and there's all these things. And taking a moment to be mindful isn't really
in the cards. So it's not going to be all the time. And what we can do environmentally to help
ourselves, for example, looking at menus ahead of time, going to restaurants and making decisions,
"Okay, I'm going to get this. And I'm going to plan on bringing some home,
or I'm going to plan on sharing some." Or making some of these decisions ahead of
time when we're not in the moment is a pretty useful tool. There's also some manipulations called episodic
future thinking, for example. So if you're sitting here with a plate of
cookies in front of you now, how would I feel eating these now? But then also, I'm imagining myself in three
weeks at, you know, some event that I wanted to wear a certain dress to or something like
this. These exercises where you transport yourself
in time to times where you're at future health goals or future other events and then using
that to help inform your decision now. These manipulations from Leonard Epstein's
lab have shown some effectiveness in changing eating behavior. They've had people listen to recordings of
themselves talking about future goals while ordering fast food in, like, food courts in
shopping malls, and they've found that it can influence how much they eat. So using some of these kinds of cognitive
tools can help us much more than just kind of the stop it approach. There are lots of people though...well, "lots,"
I don't know if that's the right word. But there's many people like you who can read
a paper and say, "This is bad for me. I am not going to do this. And you know what, I'm going to tell my husband
to not do it. I'm not going to feed it to my kid. Nobody's doing it," right? And you're able to just do that. But it's different for a lot of people, especially
when they've already learned that reward process. [Dr. Patrick]: Right, the positive and negative
reinforcement and the type of reward learning. I mean, it's very powerful. [Dr. Mason]: Very. [Dr. Patrick]: And I do kind of like...I've
always found it difficult, like, the mindfulness...I'm not going to go into that. But, like, me meditating, it's like, "Oh,
I can't do this." [Dr. Mason]: It's hard. It's hard. [Dr. Patrick]: But I can go for a run and
meditate on my run. Or I can go out surfing and sit on my board,
and I'm, like, in the moment. But, like, having to sit down and, like, try
to meditate, I'm like I just... [Dr. Mason]: But that's not what I'm advocating. [Dr. Patrick]: It's not. You know, like this curiosity that you mentioned
and, like, getting curious about it. Like, "I'm smoking the cigarette. What does it taste like? What does it smell like?" It smells like shit, you know. You know, that's kind of like a different
way of approaching this mindfulness, that, you know, I feel like it's a lot more approachable
for a lot of people. Okay, well, yeah, I could sit down and think
about, you know, how my cigarettes smells, or how, like, this, you know, sweetened beverage
tastes, or this sugar doughnut tastes and just focus on that. And when you kind of focus in on those things,
you might start to, like, really go, "Wait a minute." [Dr. Mason]: Right. And once you notice those things, that the
doughnut is stale... [Dr. Patrick]: Change the reward, right? [Dr. Mason]: Yes, or that, "Oh, actually,
this tastes terrible." You can't unknow that, right? And so you become disenchanted with, it's
not the default anymore. [Dr. Patrick]: Very interesting stuff, Ashley. I'm so happy that we... [Dr. Mason]: Me too. [Dr. Patrick]: ...had this discussion that. We talked about so many different things. And I know you are on social media. You're on Twitter. Your Twitter handle is Dr. Ashley Mason, @Dr.
Ashley Mason. So people can follow you on Twitter. And you also have a website. Is it a lab website? [Dr. Mason]: It's the lab website. [Dr. Patrick]: Is it the Sea Lab? [Dr. Mason]: Yes. S-E-A, so sealab.ucsf.edu. [Dr. Patrick]: Sea? [Dr. Mason]: S-E-A. [Dr. Patrick]: S-E-A. [Dr. Mason]: Yeah, sleep, eating, and affect. [Dr. Patrick]: Right. Spell it out again. Was it...? [Dr. Mason]: sealab@ucsf.edu. [Dr. Patrick]: Awesome. [Dr. Mason]: Or .ucsf.edu. Gosh. [Dr. Patrick]: And people can go to the website,
find out about what you guys are doing there. And, eventually, you might have a newsletter
that people can sign up for to maybe become a future participant in a study of yours or
something like that. [Dr. Mason]: Sure, yeah, that's where you
can learn about the studies that we're doing in the lab, the sleep group treatment, and
how to get involved with the lab. [Dr. Patrick]: And the study that I'm a small
collaborator with you on should be kicking off soon, fingers crossed. And we'll definitely be informing people about
that as well. So thank you so much again, Ashley. [Dr. Mason]: Thanks for having me. It was a lot of fun. [Dr. Patrick]: Totally. Yeah. [Dr. Mason]: Okay.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: YUnDkqjncSM (https://youtu.be/YUnDkqjncSM) ===

our next speaker is a very well-known if not famous individual who has been devoted her PhD life mainly to that of finding working on the aging process on areas in which disease prevention could occur and and in looking for different and new modalities that may affect the aging process and today dr. Rhonda Patrick he's going to talk to us about a new modality that may have applications to for a lot of us and for which who knows you may be wanting to write a prescription for at some point so if without that run if you would come forward and we were looking forward to your talk thank you so much dr. bruce murphy for the invitation for that very flattering introduction as Bruce mentioned my name is Rhonda Patrick and I have a PhD so I'm not a medical doctor so all you're very technical questions about a or tech or left ventricular function and all that stuff I may not be able to answer I so you may notice that the title of my talk actually that's not the title I skipped it it's not it doesn't actually match what's on your syllabus and that's because when I was told that I was going to give a talk at the healthy heart conference I got really really excited because I saw this amazing opportunity to talk about something that I am very passionate about and convinced will be part of standard of care in the next 10 years for the prevention and treatment for a variety of different cardiovascular related related conditions and so I decided instead of talking about 20 different things that may help you stave off the aging process and live healthier I thought I would kind of do a deep dive into one thing that I think will stave off the aging process and help you live longer but also particularly has a very robust effect on cardiovascular health so over the next 30 minutes or so I'm gonna try to convince everyone here today that you should be sitting in a hot box for about 20 minutes a day at least a couple times a week and not only should you be sitting in a hot box but you people you care about and perhaps your patients as well so that's that's kind of the agenda today right so over the past few decades there's been emerging research very compelling research observational studies prospective studies interventional trials as well as mechanistic studies that suggest that sauna bathing improves overall health and we're going to talk about at least sample a few of all those types of studies today so probably the largest prospective studies have come out of Eastern Finland and they're using a cohort of people that is part of a study called the coupie Oh ischemic heart disease risk factor study and that study is a very long ongoing perspective study that started back in the 80s it includes a few thousand individuals men and women and people are followed for you know 20 years or so and looked at of a variety of different diseases are looked at so a study was published a few years years ago in the Journal of American medicine JAMA internal medicine sorry and what that study looked at was in this specific case it was men about 2300 men that had you know at least one risk factor for cardiovascular disease and it looked at sauna bathing and its overall effect on longevity as well as a variety of different cardiovascular related diseases and what it found is that sudden cardiac death so looking at sudden cardiac death men that use the sauna two to three times a week had 22% lower sudden cardiac death compared to men that use this on a one-timer week men that used this on a four to seven times a week had a 63 percent lower sudden cardiac death compared to men that used this on a one-timer week so there was a dose-dependent effect in terms of frequency and also there was a dose-dependent effect on duration time spent in the sauna so spending at least 11 minutes in the sauna there was about a seven percent lower risk of sudden cardiac death and spending at least greater than 19 minutes so 20 minutes in the sauna there was about a 50 percent reduction in sudden cardiac death so the duration was also very important and of course the data was adjusted for a variety of potential confounding factors cholesterol triglycerides hypertension socioeconomic status physical activity things like that in addition to sudden cardiac death coronary artery heart related death and also cardiovascular so fatal cardiovascular mortality was also looked at and again dose dependent effect so men that used this on a 2 to 3 times a week had like a 23 percent lower coronary heart disease related death and if they use this on a forty seven times a week jumped up to like forty three percent lower mortality risk compared to men that use this on a one time a week and we see a very similar trend for for cardiovascular related mortality twenty seven times up twenty four seven percent lower for men that use this on it two three times a week and fifty percent lower for men that use this on a forty seven times a week so again nice dose dependent effect sauna bathing also affects stroke risk this also is using the the coupie oh I'll use I'll refer to refer to it as the coupie of study for short this study was published in the Journal of neurology and it also found that the sauna effect positively affected stroke risk and this was a variety of different types of stroke so using this on a two to three times a week there was about a fourteen percent lower stroke risk using the sauna forty seven times a week there was about a sixty percent lower stroke risk in both men and women compared to men and women that only used this on a one time a week hypertension is also affected so so hypertension's probably one of those things that has really repeatedly and consistently been shown to be affected by sauna use and again there was a dose-dependent effect where using this on a four to seven times a week had the most robust effect we're talking about about a 50% reduction in risk of hypertension in fact just a single exposure to a thirty minute Finnish sauna is able to lower blood pressure in about it was about a hundred people or so in this study that had at least one cardiovascular risk factor and after doing the thirty minutes on a session blood pressure was lowered and also arterial compliance was improved so the ability of the blood vessels to expand and contract in response to changing pressure so that's also been shown in fact more than one study has shown this so most of the studies that I've mentioned up until this point have been using what's called a Finnish sauna which is basically dry sauna but not dry it uses its it uses hot water to that's thrown on on rocks and increases humidity so these signs are typically around 170 four degrees Fahrenheit you throw some hot water or water on rocks which becomes hot and it creates steam and so you have up to about a twenty percent humidity in the sauna which makes it feel even hotter most of the as I mentioned earlier the time spent the duration spent in the sauna was greater than 19 minutes so spending at least 20 minutes in that hot sauna was key for the robust effects that I just discussed in terms of frequency again the more frequent the more robust the effect so two to three times a week had a you know significant effect on a variety of different cardiovascular related diseases and conditions and four to seven times a week was an even stronger effect but Finnish sauna is not the only type of sauna that is shown to improve heart health and it's also not the only type that's been shown to be used to manage heart disease so another type of sauna called way on therapy uses far infrared ray rays and those saunas are typically not quite as hot so they're around 140 degrees Fahrenheit because they're not quite as hot in most studies what you'll see is that the duration is longer so the durations about 45 minutes as opposed to 20 minutes and the frequency is higher it's daily everyday and most studies do between two to three weeks of this treatment daily the major difference between a dry sauna a wet sauna which is a Finnish sauna oh and far infrared race on us is that the dry saunas and the wet saunas they heat the ambient air and the heat is transferred from the ambient air to your body whereas the far infrared rays use thermal radiation to heat the body directly and that's the major difference so I'm just briefly going to mention two studies that that have been that a randomised trials that have been published for the management of one was for people with chronic heart failure and the other one is for people that had I think it was coronary artery related ischemia and they're both treated with way on therapy and so using the the far-infrared wraith sauna for about two to three weeks patients that had that had a chronic heart failure had improved endurance they had improved heart size and improved disease status compared to the control group which received standard of care treatment and there was no improvement in disease status for the ischemic heart disease study way on therapy was also used for three weeks and those patients it was also a randomized control trial and those patients had improved vascular endothelial function whereas the patients that received standard of care did not and there are actually many other published studies using this way on therapy what's called wound therapy again far infrared rays that that that's used for the management of heart disease so what you may be asking yourself and if you're not you should be asking yourself is why does sauna or why does heat stress have all these beneficial effects on the cardiovascular system and what should be kind of intuitive is that basically anyone that's under you know that has been physically active you know that you were elevate your core body temperature your your getting hot and so there's a lot of overlap between the physiological responses that occur when you sit in a sauna and when you're physically active so two so typically what happens is first of all your skin temperature increases and your body then shifts blood flow so blood flow goes from the organs to the skin about 50 to 70 percent of blood gets read just redistribute a tattoo to your skin and that's to help facilitate sweating and so you sweat and your heart rate increases your heart rate increases up to 150 beats per minute which is equivalent to moderate physical activity stroke volume remains the same but cardiac output increases to between 60 and 70 percent so a lot of these things in fact all of these things happen when you're physically active and that's exactly what's been shown a study published in the complementary therapies of Medicine last June compared a 25 minute sauna session to a 25 minute session on a stationary bike doing about a hundred watts and what the study showed is that in terms of the effects on heart rate and blood pressure they were identical so during the physical activity during the sauna session heart rate increased blood pressure increased immediately after the sauna or the the physical activity heart rate was lower in fact lower than baseline and blood pressure was lower than baseline levels so there was a the complete same effect happened from from 25 minutes of the sauna versus 25 minutes of moderate physical activity the sauna also has very similar effects on the autonomic nervous system as physical activity has so the sauna has been shown to improve heart rate variability so a 30 minute Finnish sauna session just one 30-minute sauna session it lowered heart rate after the sauna it increased heart rate variability it increased parasympathetic activity so increased heart rate variability in it's basically indicative of a better capacity of the heart to respond favorably under stressful conditions so it's a good thing to have an increased heart rate variability and other studies using way on therapy have shown something similar and I should mention that the people that were involved in this study had at least one cardiovascular risk factor and same with the the studies using way on therapy so that it's been repeated using different types of heat stress but heat stress nonetheless it's no surprise it should be no surprise that long-term sauna use has actually been shown to improve blood pressure it's been shown to improve left ventricular function it's been shown to improve vascular compliance and also endothelial function all these things have been shown to be improved by physical activity as well so cardiovascular disease is the number one killer in the United States and in fact in many other countries but there's also other diseases that people are dying of and there's particularly diseases that people become more susceptible susceptible to as they age the so-called age-related like Alzheimer's disease for example even cancer for the most part so back to the ku Pio study that I first sort of talked about which was the one that looked at sudden cardiac death and other cardiovascular related mortalities well that study also looked at all cause mortality so people that were dying of cancer they were dying of respiratory tract infections and other things and they also that study also found that men that used the sauna two to three times a week had a 27 percent lower risk of all-cause mortality and a 40% lower risk of all-cause mortality if they use the sauna forty seven times a week compared to men that use the sauna just once a week and we know also Alzheimer's disease has been shown to be associated with a lower risk of Alzheimer's disease associated with sauna use which you know obviously vascular health is very important for your heart and that's important for your brain as well there's also potentially other mechanisms which I'll talk about in a minute but men that use a sauna to three times a week had a 20% lower risk of Alzheimer's disease and something similar for dementia and a 60% lower risk of allergies if they loot use the sauna forty seven times a week compared to men that use this on a one-time once a week Alzheimer's disease is an age-related disease and I do want to circle back to that in a minute because it involves protein aggregation and one of the the mechanisms I think that that the sauna you know that heat stress in general increases may be involved in preventing aggregation of proteins but I just also want to mention since we're talking about longevity that in lower organisms actually in C elegans which are a type of nematode worm and in Drosophila which are a fruit fly just a single brief heat exposure in these organisms increases their lifespan by up to 15% just one sort of heat exposure like a little sort of warm & Fly sauna where they're putting a little chamber and you know the the temperatures increased and the mechanisms have all been worked out in terms of what's responsible for the lifespan extension and it happens to be dependent on a family of proteins that are actually called chaperone proteins called heat shock proteins and heat shock proteins are evolutionarily conserved they're found in worms and flies and mice and monkeys and in humans so heat shock proteins there they respond to stressful conditions and heat is one of the probably most robust ways to increase their expression and their activity heat shock proteins do a lot of things but one of the things that they're what they they're most important for is for maintaining the proper 3-dimensional structure of proteins inside of your cells and that's really important for the function of proteins whether that is you know to make a red blood cell or a synapse or to have you know your white blood cells functioning properly function of proteins is very important well the other thing that it does is that the the three-dimensional structure is important for the the life cycle the protein the half-life so proteins are made they perform their function and then they get degraded and they replaced by a new protein well sometimes just the the you know normal aging process so byproducts of our normal metabolism what we had for lunch reactive oxygen species are created and this can damage three-dimensional structure of proteins and it happens all the time normal immune function and of course this gets worse as we age and so those problems get even you know worse but the the chaperone proteins basically they help prevent that from happening when the three-dimensional structure gets messed up proteins then aren't degraded when they're supposed to they sit around a lot longer than they are supposed to and what ends up happening is they can then start to aggregate with other proteins and form protein aggregates sometimes there's soluble sometimes they're insoluble they can form plaques for example protein aggregates or have been shown to play a causal role in many different nerve degenerative diseases for example amyloid beta protein in Alzheimer's disease or alpha synuclein protein in Parkinson's disease Huntington protein in Huntington's disease protein aggregates have also been implicated in some cardiovascular rated diseases atherosclerosis cardiomyopathy as well as heart failure so a protein aggregation is definitely not a good thing and it does happen as the aging process occurs it happens more and more and heat shock proteins play a pivotal role in preventing that from happening and also that they've been shown to actually even help negate some of the process that if it's already occurred in addition heat shock proteins have been shown to slow muscular atrophy so a very recent study published earlier this year showed that people that had one of their legs immobilized for a couple of weeks that were exposed to heat and increased levels of heat shock proteins in their muscle biopsies they were third 37% less likely to have muscle atrophy compared to the Sham controlled group so it has been shown to prevent muscle atrophy in tons and tons of animal studies this has been worked out in mechanisms it's been shown to be dependent on heat shock proteins well he truck proteins have also been shown to play a role in longevity human longevity and again he Chuck proteins they don't just increase in response to heat exercise increases them fasting polyphenols things things that are part of the the good stress the good types of stress on your body but also even bad stress inflammation you know chronic inflammation or you know acute inflammation can also increase heat high proteins so speaking it to the human longevity part it's known that humans that have a single nucleotide polymorphism in the heat shock protein 70 gene that has functional significance so this makes the chaperone protein better at maintaining the proteins other proteins in the cells three-dimensional structure humans that have two copies of that so they've they're homozygous have a two are basically on average live two years longer than people that don't have that snip and people that have one copy so they're heterozygous for that snip live about one year longer so there's a gene dosage dependent effect with the heat shock protein 70 snip so if you're one of those unlucky individuals that does not have those one or two alleles of the snip I just mentioned what do you do to increase your heat shock proteins you get in the sauna you can also be physically active but it's been shown that healthy individuals that sit in a dry sauna that's around 163 degrees Fahrenheit for 30 minutes increase their heat shock proteins by 50% and once those levels are increased they stay elevated for about 48 hours it's also been shown in separate studies that people that are already acclimated to heat as in they're frequently using the sauna or they are physically physically active which also raises your core body temperature they can increase their heat shock proteins sooner upon heat stress exposure and more robustly so people that are heat acclimated actually get a better heat shock protein response so with that said I will mention one more thing that one more Mehcad possible mechanism by which the sauna can improve overall longevity and that is by lowering inflammation multiple studies have implicated that inflammation plays a major role in the aging process and also in age-related diseases like Alzheimer's disease cancer heart disease so you know having something that can lower your inflammatory biomarkers is something that is good for increasing health span and the sauna has been consistently shown to lower for example c-reactive protein in a dose-dependent manner so the more frequent the sauna bathing the more longer the duration the more robust in terms of lowering c-reactive protein it's also been shown to increase anti-inflammatory biomarkers like aisle 10 so that's also a very good thing that you know something that's also very consistent with physical activity as well physical activity has also been shown to do the same thing that's pretty much all I'm going to talk about today there's lots of other things the sauna improves it's also been shown to have a major effect on on brain function and it increases endorphins much like physical activity so there's a mood enhancing effect in fact in fact there was a friend of mine published a randomized control trial where he elevated people that had major depression elevated their core body temperature about one or two degrees and just one exposure to that had an antidepressant effect that lasted weeks compared to people that got the Sham control which by the way the people that got the Sham control thought they were actually getting the treatment so it was a nice placebo control it's also been shown to there's there's positive things I'm just sweating in general there's certain heavy metals that are excreted better through sweat then through urine for example cadmium and arsenic sorry not arsenic mercury cadmium and mercury are better excreted through sweat than through urine so there's lots of other things in terms of asana but i'm not going to talk about but overall it's very it's very safe for healthy people as well as people for with stable cardiac disease and it's I would say that one of the biggest things that I've seen in terms of talking about this on on in people in the general population basically is that people are much more likely to be compliant in terms of if you have a person that has a lifetime of being sedentary and they're they have risk factors for cardiovascular disease or they may even have it it's really hard to get them to to go out and be physically active it's very very difficult but when you tell them about the amazing you know things that the sauna the studies that have shown that the sauna has you know positive effects on a variety of different cardiovascular rated you know diseases and it's good for prevention people think the saunas like a spa treatment so they want to go sit in the sauna and and little do they know that it's really me sitting the saunas you know mimicking in many ways moderate aerobic activity so that's one of the reasons I really think I was very excited to come here and speak to all you guys physicians physician assistant nurses health care health practitioners in general because I really think that this is something that's important to get in you know to have physicians talking about - you know other physicians and to the patience read the medical literature yourself look it up see for yourself the evidence it's important that you rehydrate after the sauna typically a person uses about loses about point Phillip five kilograms of sweat so you have to you have to rehydrate I use this on about four times a week and I drink a ton of water before I get in there and also when I get out there are some contraindications so probably one of the biggest ones is alcohol never ever ever use alcohol before you're getting the sauna during the sauna there's been several case reports where it can cause death so alcohol is a big big no-no for sauna use also elderly people that are prone to low blood pressure because it does have a significant effect on lowering blood pressure that's something that could potentially be a contraindication also people with recent myocardial infarction all this other stuff that I don't know too much about like and giant angina pectoris and severe aortic stenosis those are also considered to be contraindications oops so with that said I will say there's my red sweaty sauna face one of many and you guys I hope you go out mmm hit the sauna your gym after this talk get your heat shock proteins on and we thought I will answer any questions you have about this or anything else like time restricted eating or the gut microbiome our understanding so thank you very much thank you for that information and I have thoroughly enjoyed your podcast by the way and I've already implemented song a lot in my patients and myself my question is DS is there an additive effect to exercise fasting and sauna and do you worry about the refeeding as far as protein loss with weight lifting that kind of thing so the I guess everyone didn't hear the question because he had a microphone so that so it's an interesting question if there's an additive effect in terms of doing the sauna being physically active eating a healthy diet potentially doing time restricted eating and intermittent fasting I will say first of all there is an additive effect in terms of physical activity and sauna like that's been published that's been shown for example people that are physically active that that use the sauna there's improvements in mitochondrial function in the muscle tissue and the the improvements happen better in people that are physically active versus people that are sedentary they still occur in people that are sedentary but they occur better in physically active people I don't know I mean it's my belief I think that you know I think all these these things are affecting there's cross talk on the pathways that they're affecting so fasting you know fasting and and time restricted eating for example you know fasten yourself activates heat shock proteins but but there's this whole component to you know eating all your food you know in a certain time window when your metabolism is most optimal that has nothing to do with heat shock proteins it has nothing to do with anything that the sauna would be affecting that is also very relevant for healthy aging so I think that there's different molecular mechanisms that play for these different things like time restricted eating and fasting and so on and exercise so I don't I don't know that there's an additive effect because there's been no data on that actually specifically proving that but I think that it's quite possible that there is but you know again I don't know for sure so so thank you very much as a wonderful wonderful presentation are there limits on how long you can be in the sauna and and I may is it an everyday thing for some people great question so I would say that you know obviously heat stress can be dangerous and so you shouldn't stay into that you shouldn't stay in the sauna like you don't want to give yourself a heatstroke right most most people in Finland I've you know I've gone to Finland I've used the public saunas with people they're doing them most of the time people are going in there for 20 minutes or so they get out they actually jump in the cold Baltic and then they get back in the sauna again so they're sort of breaking it up and there's been published studies looking at you know cold shower in-between or even just rest at room temperature and then going back in the sauna so so 20 minutes seems to be key if you're at about 174 degrees fahrenheit in terms of the studies that I mentioned with the effects on cardiovascular health personally I stay in about 30 minutes and I stay in this sauna that I'm using is is about 170 175 degrees Fahrenheit so you know it you become acclimated to it so like you know I was in there the other day and there were some elderly women I was talking all about the heart health and you know of course they had no idea and they're so excited but they're like I can't even stay in here for seven minutes and I said well look you stay in five minutes the first time in the next time you come you stay in seven and that's what happens you acclimate and he gets it gets easier and easier and eventually you're in there for 20 minutes so that would be you had a question sir so the question is if I was going to build a sauna in my home would I build a Finnish sauna or the infrared hands down without even having to think about it I would build a Finnish sauna for sure personally I'm not like I've used infrared saunas before and I have to stay in there like an hour to to get my heart rate what it gets you know in about 30 minutes of a really hot Sun in fact Finnish saunas are even hot because they're hotter because the steam makes it feel hotter the humidity right as people that are in Little Rock in the summer no humidity feels it makes it feel a lot we're you know hotter so but infrared saunas are convenient they're cheaper and they're less of a fire hazard risk so I mean I certainly see the you know the why people like infrareds on us but it's my personal I think that the dry saunas are in a Finnish sauna would be ideal so is there any first two questions number one do you know why there's no blue zones in Finland so I have no idea why there's no blue zones in Finland I know that I mean they have a completely different diet also it's dark there like a lot of the year and I really actually I think this sauna is helps them adapt to that because of the effects on mood because it's like you know I don't think I can handle living in a region where it's it's like I went and visited there and I think it was a October I mean November it was like fall and I mean there was the Sun was like it was just like when the Sun came out was like oh it's here we got to go outside you know so no I don't know yeah the other question I have is is there you know of any supporting evidence out of the Japanese onsen I don't that's the that's something I probably should read up on because there I mean it they don't get quite that hot but there's a lot of long time in a very hot water in there right and so I think this is a good opportunity to mention that there's other modalities for increasing your core body temperature not just a Finnish sauna or a dry sauna or infrared sauna there's steam showers there's hot baths and there's been studies comparing hot baths to a dry sauna in terms of some of the intricate effects the sauna has profound effects on the endocrine system and those effects are very similar in terms of a hot bath versus a sauna so I mean you know for me like I'll take hot baths at home but it's so easy for me to like stick my legs out or my arms out you know and so I'm not getting it's better if you can stay submerged under the water like you want to like you want the benefit of that heat stress when you start to like cool yourself cool certain parts of your body off it's not working quite as well so I find for me like getting myself in the box where I can't like you know escape anything works best but I absolutely think that the bat hot baths have similar effects any other questions oh yes so is there an age limit on the saunas like for children one question and then the other question is do you have like a quick rundown of some of the other tools for the increasing your house fan that you were possibly going to speak about earlier so the the question about age limit and the sauna there of course in Finland you know the sauna is ubiquitous and many age groups are using it children adults um for the children there seems to be a limit in terms of time so it's like much shorter duration I mean like you know maybe like five minutes versus you know an adult that will sit in there for 20 minutes I do have some some scientific resources on my website my fitness comm there's a topic page on the sauna and it talks all about special populations elderly children it talks about people with various heart related conditions as well as pregnancy because there is something to consider when you're talking about using something like the saunas is elderly people and children so that was a great question and so your second question is some of the other top some of the other tools that I think can help improve health span so typically I would say that there's a few things that I think have the biggest bang for your buck kind of thing and I think that one of those is time restricted eating I think that timer so time restricted eating refers to eating all your food within a certain time window and not eating outside of that time window and that time window typically is between anywhere between 6 to I would say 11 hours you want to eat all your food within that time window and fast for the remaining time and the reason I say that is because one it's it's a lot easier for people to do that like it's very very difficult as I'm sure everyone here knows to get people to change their diet it's very very difficult particularly when people or you know have a bad diet and don't really want to change their diet even though they need to change their diet to improve their health so when you tell them ok you know you don't have to like eat what you're eating but eat all your food in you know try to eat all your food within nine hours people people go ok well yeah I think I can do that you know they don't have this adverse like effect where I have to cut out my you know my treats my candy whatever it is they're you know addicted to and so so people they're the compliance for that is I think much better than trying to get them to like cut out all the refined sugars and all this other stuff and I think that you're going to get benefits you're going to get the intermittent fact some of the intermittent fasting benefits so you know they're there a lot there are lots of things throughout you know human history there are periods of time we didn't have access to food and so you know we have all these amazing genetic pathways that are meant to be switched on and they're not going to be switched on unless you stop eating for a certain period of time and so you and you miss out and these these genetic pathways are pathways that are often stress response pathways so there are pathways that are that are turned on that help you deal with the stresses of aging better so these are pathways that are clearing out you know things that are accumulating within the cell on a daily basis dead cellular debris they're cleaning or cleaning out organelles inside of your cells that are dysfunctional like mitochondria replacing them with new mitochondria it's kind of like this rejuvenation period so I think that's also a really important benefit you're getting with time restricted eating also you're getting the benefit of eating your food when you're the most insulin sensitive so there's been studies comparing for example men that ate the same identical meal in terms of their macro nutrient composition the caloric contra they ate them for breakfast or for lunch or for dinner and insulin insulin sensitivity blood glucose levels all those things were measured and they were the most insulin sensitive in the morning and the lease incident insulin sensitive in the evening even though there's identical meals and that's because insulin sensitivity blood glucose all these things all these genes that are regulating a variety of processes they're on a circadian rhythm meaning they're they're active during certain times in the day and the thing that starts that clock is the intake of food so the first calorie you take in is going to start that clock from ticking and so at that early point is going to be when you can be the most insulin sensitive and as the day goes on that's sort of the sensitivity goes down so so you're getting all those benefits and I think that is one of the the easiest and most robust things that I think is important for improving health span the other would be sort of an extension of that and it happens to be a little bit I would say a little bit more challenging and even a little bit scarier and that is a little bit more of a prolonged fast there's a lot of work by adulterer doctor Valter Longo who was a friend of mine and as this gentleman over here mentioned I do have a podcast where I interview a variety of scientists physicians and we talk about a lot of topics that are related to aging and so I've spoke with him multiple times and he is a variety of clinical studies where he has looked at the effects of basically not eating food for a prolonged period of time which is around 48 at least 48 hours and he's looked at the effects of that on for example autoimmune related diseases so people that had multiple sclerosis they were doing in that case it wasn't actually a fast they were doing a fasting mimicking diet so it was a diet that was sort of had a very specific callewaert content and macronutrient composition that act activated a lot of the same molecular pathways that fasting does and it improved a variety it improved disease status in the multiple sclerosis patients he's also been a co-author on studies where he's shown that there may be a benefit to fasting along with standard of care treatment when you're undergoing cancer treatment like chemotherapy or radiation so he's published a couple of pilot studies showing that a 48 hour water fast is safe and not only is it safe there seems to be a beneficial effect on sensitizing cancer cells to death and protecting normal cells from the toxicity of chemotherapy and/or radiation and that largely has to do with the fact that fasting activates those stress response pathways I just mentioned that are meant to be switched on that humans because of our active 24-hour access to food these days never switch on well normal cells switch them on and so when you switch on those stress response pathways they actually become more resilient to stress like chemotherapy radiation those are very toxic types of stress normal cells become more resilient to them because they're they have increased activation of genes that are involved in dealing with oxidative stress in dealing with inflammatory stress and dealing with the kind of stuff that's causing them to die from this from this chemotherapy radiation cancer cells are unable to do that they're completely screwed up mutations all sorts of mutations when they experience stressful when something is stressing them out they don't they don't respond by increasing stress response pathways they just die so that's another area that I think is really interesting in terms of healthy people doing it to prolong their lifespan it's an open question Valter thinks that in people that have that are lean and don't have any cardiovascular risk factors or any other you know type 2 diabetes risk factors that they can maybe do this once or twice a year and they may help improve longevity that's speculation at this point it hasn't been shown in humans but there have an animal studies showing that it does increase lifespan and increases health span both are shown that doing doing a prolonged fast can basically cause organs to shrink inside of animals during the fasting phase and that is due to a variety of factors one cell size is shrinking two cells are dying and what vaulter is shown is that preferentially damaged old cells die and this then can basically during the refeeding phase which I think now that was a question I missed when you're breaking your fast the refeeding phase causes causes stem cells to proliferate and to replace all those cells that were lost and so that the organs that shrunk regrow and their regrowing with healthy new young cells so it's really this amazing rejuvenation process that seems to be hard encoded in our genes and activated just by not eating so a lot of work to still be done there huge implications for autoimmune disease I mean what Walter is shown in a lot of animal studies is that immune cells that are dysfunctional those are preferentially killed off and replaced by healthy new non auto immune cells which is amazing so I think there's a lot of promise for prolonged fasting and not only the treatment for maybe cancer and autoimmune diseases and other diseases but also even possibly to improve health span and healthy people and so I really look forward to that research progressing I think it's a really hot new area that I'm very excited about and I think my red dot is totally liked it going zurk here so I'm supposed to stop yeah I wanted to mention one other thing and that is broccoli sprouts and so for a feign like just listen to a podcast I did it with dr. judge Fahey if you want to know about more about it but I really think that's another important way to improve health spending so thank you it's a pleasure to be here again I was really really excited so thank you so much you

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: 6DtJGJWjDys (https://youtu.be/6DtJGJWjDys) ===

Rhonda: Welcome back, my friends, to another
episode of the FoundMyFitness podcast. I’m sitting here with Dr. Charles Raison
who is a professor at the School of Human Ecology at the University of Wisconsin, Madison,
and who is also the Founding Director of the Center for Compassion Studies at the University
of Arizona, as well as many other interesting things which you can hear about in this episode
of the FoundMyFitness podcast. So one of the reasons why I wanted to have
you in, you know, on the podcast to have a discussion with you is because you’ve done
some really interesting research on the effects of inflammation on the development of depression,
as well as using what is very similar, what I would think to be very similar as a sauna,
it’s whole body hyperthermia, as a treatment for major depressive disorder. So very, you know, interesting topics that
I’m interested in. So maybe we can start by talking a little
bit about the role of inflammation, just generally speaking, in depression? Charles: Yeah, so it’s interesting. You know, when people began to realize back
in the 80s that there was this link between the brain and the immune system that was more
profound than we originally thought, right, I mean, originally, people thought the immune
system was down to dealing with infection and the brain was about behavior. Now, of course, we know that they’re really
one system. People thought about it in terms of immune
suppression, you know. I mean, I think so many things were lost from
the lives of people with depression that have sort of made thematic sense to think that
your immune functioning might be lost too. So it was really quite a shock in the 90s
when assays got better, and we begin to realize that if you measured inflammatory markers,
so these are chemicals like cytokines that get kicked up when you get the flu or something
like that. Then when you looked at those sort of chemicals,
they were actually elevated in depressed people. This was shown sort of again and again. And then we began to realize that if you were
exposed to these chemicals, you were likely to get depressed. So some of the research that we did, and many
other people did, beginning about 2000 was with drugs like interferon. So there’s a thing called interferon alpha
which was used somewhat in cancer, but a great deal for many years to treat Hepatitis C.
It’s a chemical your body makes that basically turns on inflammation. You know, if I were to take you and inject
a bunch of interferon alpha into your arm, within an hour you’d be feeling sick. You’d have a fever. You’d feel, you know, crappy, and you’d
wanna lay down. It activates all these inflammatory chemicals
in your body. Turns out that if people do that to themselves
on a repeated basis for something like curing Hepatitis C, a very significant proportion
of them become depressed. Many become like really clinically depressed:
suicidal, hopeless, helpless. Rhonda: At long term? Charles: Oh, well, long term while you’re
getting the treatment. The interesting thing is that the vast bulk
of people recover pretty much completely within a couple weeks of stopping it. So it really is the sort of drug, if you’re
constantly exposed to inflammatory stimuli at a high level, you know, people get exhausted,
depressed, or sleep gets messed up. Yeah, unfortunately, there are actually a
number of data points suggesting that some people do have long term, you know, sort of
mood disturbances after a chronic bout of inflammation from interferon. We know it from other studies, sort of population
studies, that if you have episodes of inflammation earlier in life, so for instance, if you have
an autoimmune condition, or if you have bad infections, you have the kind of infections
that land you in the hospital, you’re significantly more likely to subsequently develop significant
major depression. But significant schizophrenia and other disorders
too. So it looks like there’s something about
chronic inflammatory activation that induces changes in the brain and body that tee you
up for depression. In fact, we can talk about it. We know a lot about what those changes are. So there was this convergence of data suggesting
that, yeah, that inflammation, the sorts of acute, especially acute reactions your body
does to dangerous pathogens, that those chemicals induce depression. Now we and others were some of the first suggests
that it may in fact, there may be an evolutionary advantage to inflammation inducing depression. We can talk about that, but the fact that
those things are linked, is pretty clear. Rhonda: Yeah, please do talk about the, because
to me, what would be the advantage to developing depression from an evolutionary standpoint? Charles: Well, the argument here is that depression,
human depression, may have evolved out of sickness. And there’s actually a fair amount of evidence
to suggest that that may be the case. So for one thing, if you make a list of the
symptoms that you have when you’re acutely sick, and you cross those with the symptoms
you have when you’re depressed, there’s a really significant overlap. Depressed people are a little more likely
to wanna kill themselves, are a little more likely to have sort of beat down on themselves. That doesn’t happen as often in sickness,
but many symptoms, and some very surprising ones, are shared by depression and sickness. The example I often given is hyperthermia,
right? So, you know, when you’re really sick, when
inflammation is activated, one of the things it does is induce a fever. We’ve known for many years that if you take
medically healthy depressed people, they have chronic elevations in their body temperature. And it follows the same sort of diurnal pattern
as you see in sickness. So you see more of this elevation at night. There’s some very interesting data actually
done up the road in Los Angeles, at UCLA in the 90s, that if you measure core body temperature
of people that are not depressed versus people that are, the depressed people’s body temperature
is higher. Then if you treat them, in this case they
used electroconvulsive therapy, which is, you know, very, very rapidly acting powerful
treatment, you treat the depressed people, you measure the body temperature again, bang,
it goes right down to the level of control people. So we’ve known for a long time that depression
is a hyperthermic state, but, you know, if you look at the things that happen physiologically
when you get sick, one of the things that happens is something called an “Acute Phase
Reaction.” So you get a change in the chemicals that
your liver makes, right? So you get a downgrading of sort of housekeeping
chemicals like albumin, and you get an up rise in the things like CRP. You tend to also do things like lose iron,
lose zinc, and you say, why, you know, when you get sick, why do you slump your iron? Well, the answer is because the microbes,
especially intracellular bacteria, need the iron more than you do. They have to have that iron to replicate. You could live for a while without iron, but
they can’t. And there’s all sorts of data showing that
for instance, iron supplementation kills you if you’re infected, or kids are given iron
in high pathogen third world areas are much more likely to die of infection. So, you know, what happens with evolution
is you get a suite of reactions that although sometimes costly to the person, or to the
person’s body, are generally more costly to the bacteria. So the reason that we get sick when inflammation
gets activated is not just because nature wants to torture us, it’s because if you
make a list of all the things that happen, many of them have been shown to be pathogen
protective. So for instance, hyperthermia, fever is a
powerful pathogen protector for a couple reasons. First off, it sort of ramps up immune functioning. But most microorganisms are not built to last,
they’re built cheap, that’s why they can actually mutate so quickly. So they tend to unwind at higher temperatures. So, you know, a fever is an anti-pathogenesis,
an antibiotic strategy, right? So it’s very striking that depression is
so reliably associated with things like shunting your iron, or shunting your zinc, raising
your body temperature, you know. So if you think about, you know, why would
those characteristics occur in a condition like depression that we think of as being
largely psychosocial, you know, if your girlfriend dumps you and you get depressed, it might
make sense why you weep and cry. And, you know, maybe it be you sit down, and
it makes you reevaluate your life, but why should it elevate your body temperature? Why should it cause your iron stores to be
reduced? On the other hand, you know, if depression
evolved out of sickness as a strategy for pathogen defense, all those things make a
lot of sense. And so the argument is that if you look at
the things that killed hominids and human beings before about 10,000 years ago, they
were largely not the infectious agents that killed us across history, right? Most people died of things like malaria, and
smallpox, and measles, these horrible crowd infections over the last 10,000 years since
the invention of agriculture. Before that, most people died from trauma. It’s interesting, sometimes afflicted by
other people just, you know, just get scraped, getting cut up. The things that kill you from trauma are much
more likely to be extracellular bacterial things. Those are the types of organisms that are
especially likely to be wiped out by the kind of sickness reactions that get activated both
in depression and sickness. So we and others have made the argument that
this is the way to think about it. That until modern times, stress was a reliable
indicator that you were at significantly increased risk of wounding, and wounding is going to
kill you because you’re going to get infection. So stress becomes linked with a pre potent
inflammatory activation so that your immune system kind of run to their guard stations,
it’s like smoke alarm principle, you know. Stress means you’re at an increased risk
of dying from a wounding-based infection. So stress becomes reliably associated with
inflammation. Inflammation induces sickness. But sickness and depression share a lot in
common, so over time, what happens is that anything that signals a need for increased
inflammation activates a suite of behaviors that in humans over time, also sort of evolves
into depression. So it’s an even deeper way of saying that
in fact, the link between inflammation and depression may be deeper across evolutionary
time and for adaptive purposes, than it actually is in terms of mechanism. That’s interesting. Rhonda: Very interesting, yeah. Because I’ve always just sort of looked
at the mechanism and I know you’ve got a couple of papers on the...
Charles: On evolution. Rhonda: Yeah. However, I didn’t quite read too much into
that. But that is certainly, a very interesting
hypothesis. I’m not sure exactly sure how you would
test that, but it makes sense. Charles: Well, there are so many interesting
ways to test it, right? Some of it, of course, is just cross-sectional. You know, finding genes that are reliably
associated with depression has been somewhat of a fool’s errand, because it’s such
a polygenic disorder. But if you make a list of the best contenders,
and then you go ask, the genes... So SNPs in genes that we know the functional
capacity of, right? That the form of the gene that’s associated
with depression, does it provide any anti pathogen benefits? It turns out that almost 100% of the time
it does. So if you make a list, think about something
like MTHFR gene that’s involved in folate metabolism, right? So there’s a form of it that seems to be
a depression risk factor. So if you look at what it does immunologically,
it is probably pro-inflammatory. And it’s strongly associated with increased
survival in sub-Saharan Africa, because in sub-Saharan Africa, so many people innocently
die of Hepatitis B, and the form of the gene that may be a risk factor for depression is
actually protective against that illness. Rhonda: Fascinating. Charles: In one of our papers, we rustled
up maybe 30 genes and showed that sort of across the board, these really fascinating
things, right? So there’s that. There’s evidence that forms of genes that
are pro-inflammatory increase your risk of death in low pathogen areas, but increase
your risk of survival in high pathogen areas. There is a fascinating study out of the Netherlands
actually, now probably 10 years ago, looking at Ghana, which is an interesting country
because there’s parts of the country that have sort of been cleaned up, they have fresh
water, they have clean water from wells, and so pathogen deaths are low there. There’s other parts of the country where
people are still drinking from polluted rivers. They did this fascinating study where they
looked at this sort of haplotype in the TNF gene that is known to have an inflammatory. If you have one form of it, you have higher
levels of inflammation. If you have the other, you have lower levels. As you predict, in parts of the country where
you are protected so, you know, clean water, not going to die from infection, if you have
the high TNF, low IL10, the sort of the pro-inflammatory haplotype, in the parts of the country with
low pathogen, you die sooner. But in high pathogen areas, you’re protected. And the protection all occurs in the early
part of a lifespan, up to the age of 40, where across evolutionary time, that’s where you
wanna survive, because that’s where you’re going to reproduce and live long enough to
probably get your kids into survival age. So there’s that, and then there’s really,
there’s another really interesting thing, which is, you know, you and I share, I’m
sure you share with me an interest in this possibility that part of the link between
sort of a metabolic immuno-disturbances and behavioral disturbances may be an evolutionary
mismatch in modern times, right? So we know that there is likely to make a
laundry list of factors of the modern world that are pro-inflammatory, and that are associated
with depression. There is an idea, and I’ve written a lot
about, I’m on both sides of this debate, it’s interesting. But there is an argument that depression might
be something of a more modern phenomenon arising from the sort of evolutionary mismatch between
the way we live now that’s so pro-inflammatory, and how we evolve to live, right? There’s evidence that rates of depression
have really kind of risen a great deal in many parts of the modern world in the last
50 years at exactly the times when our diet has become more pro-inflammatory, where we’ve
been separated from a lot of the immune-regulatory organisms in the environment. But if that’s the story, then you would
not expect to see depression being ancient for one thing, but especially, you wouldn’t
expect to see any type of link between inflammatory activation and depression in people that are
not living in a modern lifestyle. So one argument, and again, these are circumstantial
arguments, but one argument for the fact that perhaps this link between inflammation and
depression, sort of an evolutionary purpose, is that it should precede modern environments. So these folks they’re anthropologist at
the University New Mexico, actually went down to this group called the Tsimane, which they’re
kind of agriculturalists semi hunters gatherers down in the lowlands of Bolivia. So they actually went down there to test these
ideas, and so they they developed these really culturally appropriate depression questionnaires,
and then they drew their blood and looked at their inflammatory status. And very consistent with the idea that this
link between inflammation and depression is an evolved old thing, they found, first off,
they found that folks living in this completely different much closer to the way most humans
lived across most of the time, depression looks very much like it does here. People do get depressed. They get depressed for a lot of the same reasons. Depression was powerfully correlated with
increased inflammation. Interestingly, when they did functional assays,
the depressed people showed better immune responses to some of the pathogens, some of
the types of things that would be pathogens in their world, again suggesting that there’s
a link between depression and actually increased survival from infection. So it turns on its head this idea, that something
like depression is sort of a killer, because it dampens your immunity. It really is the opposite. So I, particularly think that the link between
inflammatory activation and depression goes way back in the mammalian phylogeny, and really,
probably initially had to do with our ability to manage our relationships with the microbial
world, not as much our relationships with conspecifics, although it later got usurped
for conspecific stuff. Rhonda: Yeah. Yes, absolutely. Very, very fascinating. So sort of talk about, you know, I don’t
know if there’s necessarily, if those things are mutually exclusive in terms of the depression
having this evolutionary origin, and modern day mismatch. Because... Charles: It’s probably a two hit. Rhonda: Yeah. Charles: Too bad. Rhonda: Right. And if you think about it, for example, and
you mentioned, I mean, there’s so many things in our environment that are pro-inflammatory:
diet, you know, lack of the light exposure changing. But if you look at people that are obese,
or people that have metabolic syndrome, most of the time have very high markers of inflammation,
not always, but... And they also are more likely to get depressed. Charles: Absolutely. Rhonda: Has there been any evidence to see
whether or not the inflammation is driving that? Charles: Oh, yes. Absolutely. The best paper I know, that was done by Lucile
Capuron and Andy Miller, Lucille is in Bordeaux, Andy is at Emory, where they looked at, you
know, they looked at cognitive behavioral disturbance, body mass index and inflammation,
and showed that the link between sort of obesity and these behavioral cognitive problems were
mediated by the increased inflammation, right? Anybody in this field knows that body mass
index, how fat you are, is the 800 pound gorilla in the room when it comes to the link between
inflammation and anything. I mean, there’s just a linear relationship. I just did just this huge study on like 600
people with a large pharmaceutical company where I worked with them on data looking at
prediction of inflammation and response to medication. And, you know, man, it’s just a straight
line. The heavier you are, especially, and unfortunately
for us men, big, big production of... Because we know that fat cells are big producers
of inflammation. Rhonda: Exactly, right. What about how they’ve been studies looking
at whether or not, so those people that are, for example, obese or overweight, and are,
you know, have higher levels of inflammatory biomarkers, if they lose the weight, does
their depression risk decrease? Like is there any evidence of that? Charles: The only data I know of on that,
are people that have had these gastric bypass surgeries for weight loss. There is some data showing that they’ve
been administered kind of quality of life wellbeing mood stuff, people’s moods get
much better. Now it’s confound, though, of course. Rhonda: Yeah, of course. Charles: Because, you know, all of a sudden
you can get into your bikinis. Rhonda: Look better. Yeah. Charles: But it would be consistent with that
idea. Rhonda: Yeah. It certainly would be interesting to look
at that, you know. In terms of some of the studies you mentioned
where you’re, you know, administering pro-inflammatory cytokines, like interferon alpha, and I think... Charles: Endotoxin typhoid. Rhonda: Endotoxin, which is a component of
bacterial outer cell membranes that can induce inflammatory response, how those can immediately,
you know, cause people to have depressive symptoms, and then if they continue taking
it. I actually have a friend of mine who has polycythemia
and he was, which you make many red blood cells. He was part of a clinical trial at Stanford
where they were giving, they were administering interferon, I don’t know what, maybe it
was alpha. Charles: I think it’s beta. Rhonda: It was beta? Charles: I think so. Rhonda: But what was interesting is that he
had to like leave the trial because his mood was traumatically affected. He’s usually someone in really good spirits,
very optimist, you know, sort of person, and so he had to stop that treatment because it
literally was making him depressed. So that was sort of an interesting anecdote. But in terms of like some of the mechanisms
that are responsible, you know, people, like you said, we used to think the immune system
was separate from the brain, and like there’s the blood/brain barrier and nothing is penetrating
it, you know. Now we know these things are connected. You know, in fact the lymphatic system is... Charles: Absolutely. Rhonda: ...connected to the brain, this inflammatory
mediators are crossing the blood/brain barrier, getting into the brain and, you know, disrupting
neurotransmission. Charles: Absolutely. Yeah, cells get into the brain. This is the work of Jonathan Keith, it’s
fascinating, you know, that... Well, so there’s a couple things to say,
but let me tell you something interesting about this business, about the endotoxin,
the LPS and the typhoid stuff. So the folks in London, Hugo Critchley’s
group, they tended to use typhoid, and they showed that right, you know, you give normal
folks a shot of typhoid which activates a sort of acute mild, it’s not going to interferon
is like a sledge hammer, right? I mean this is more like a, like... But you do that and you got people report
feeling more socially isolated, they feel more dysphoric, and you see changes in their
brain that sort of speak to depressive brain functioning. And the folks at UCLA used the LPS endotoxin,
sort of it’s all the same thing, especially in women, not so much in men. It seems like there’s a tropism for women,
which is interesting thing. There is an evolutionary story there, perhaps
too. But what’s interesting is there’s a counter,
there is a little bit of counter data. This was done years ago in Germany where they
actually took people that were catastrophic, it’s a small study, but they took people
that had been inpatient, catastrophically depressed, and they shot them up with endotoxin
and it produced a powerful antidepressant response. Now, what’s interesting about that is that
there’s a relevant animal study from Raz Yirmiya in Israel, where they took mice, and
I’m pretty sure it’s mice, not rats, and subjects them with this 20-day horrible stressor. They showed that the stressor crazy activates
inflammation, leads to apoptosis, death of microglial cells in the brain and, you know,
huge anxious depressive behavior afterwards, right? So what’s interesting was they showed that
if you block the inflammation right before the start of the stressor, sort of it starts,
you block it, you can prevent the apoptosis, you can prevent the downstream behavioral
effects, it’s protective. If you do nothing here and you let the little
rodents go through the horrible stressor and you block the inflammation afterwards, they
do worse. If you stimulate inflammation, they get antidepressant
response. So there’s a little bit of a background,
that I am just one of the few people, but there are some of us that are interested in
this idea that inflammation is a funny thing, right? So these cytokines, these classic inflammatory
molecules like TNF, Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha, IL1 Beta, IL6, at lower levels in the
brain, they actually have neurotrophic effects. Rhonda: Kinda like a hormetic stressor, where
they’re active? Charles: We don’t know, is it stressor,
or is it just that they evolved? Nature is so cheap, you know, it always wants
to reuse things. That’s what makes things, evolutionary processes
do this constantly, and that’s why things are, one of the reasons why biological systems
are hard to understand. You know, if they’ve generated TNF knock-out
mice they, can’t find their way out of a bag, they are as dumb as dirt. There’s something about lower levels of
these mediators that may actually be beneficial in the CNS, at least. And then there’s sort of a you, and then
all of a sudden man, very, very rapidly, they become what we think of us as counterproductive. You know, they become depressive inducing,
they cause tissue damage. Now, they evolve for a purpose. I mean, if that was just a negative thing,
that would not happen. I mean, life is such a rough competitive game. It may be the case that the reason that you
get the sort of CNS inflammation from, either from peripheral cells coming into the CNS,
or from these resident macrophage-type CNS cells being activated. It’s probably a way of reducing the risk
of pathogen manipulation, where you basically, because it’s interesting, if you look at
what...when inflammation gets activated in the CNS, it has a trophic effect. It doesn’t just go everywhere. It tends to go to an area called the Cingulate
Cortex, and the dopamine area is down in the Ventral striatum. We and others have suggested that it may be
a way trying to take these areas offline so that they’re not able to be manipulated
by pathogens. You know, you don’t necessarily want bugs
driving your system. We now know that many of these sort of CNS
organisms, like [inaudible 00:24:33], you know, the thing that, no, it will come to
me, that drives crazy dopamine behavior, that a lot of times, these microorganisms will
actually change behavior in ways that benefit their survival and reproduction. Rhonda: Toxoplasmosis. Charles: Yeah, toxo. Right. There’s probably an evolutionary reason
for why you see the U shape curve, but that may also explain why, you know, we’ve been
working on the idea that people have been really, really chronically depressed. So if you look at people that are chronically
depressed, and we talked about the fact that, you know, inflammation is elevated in depression,
it’s true, but it’s only true in a certain way. So what you really see is, you know, for any
inflammatory biomarker, here’s where it’s at if you’re healthy, here’s where it’s
at if you have the flu, or you got rheumatoid arthritis, right? If you’re healthy, here’s where it’s
at, and if you’re healthy and depressed, it’s here, right? Now, day in, day out, day in, day out, that’s
enough to set you up for every evil thing: heart attack, strokes, dementia, I mean, because
it’s a gradual wear and tear. But then if you look more closely, what you
really see is this, so that there’s a huge overlap between depressed people and not depressed
people. So there’s lots of depressed people that
are desperately depressed that have low levels of inflammation, and it’s only some that
are elevated. Now I thought, for many years, because I’m
kind of a lumper, not a splitter, that may be what you were looking at here was that
depressed people, that they’re all in inflammatory simple thing, that some depressed people just
have higher inflammation, and that’s what’s doing it. And other people may be depressed because
they’re more sensitive to inflammation, but that it’s all too much inflammation
in one way or other, you know. We now are pretty sure that that’s not true,
that in fact the reason that depression is associated with increased inflammation is
because there’s a subgroup of depressed people that have elevated inflammation, and
they’re different than depressed people that don’t. This is the work of my mentor, Andy Miller,
in the last five or seven years. They’ve just been world leader showing that
if you take regular old, depressed people, he got like 250 of them and did this amazing
series of studies. People that have, there’s not a cut off,
but the people that have higher levels of inflammation and depressed, have different
functional connectivity in their brains than people that have lower levels. We showed, Andy and I showed years earlier
that they also have very different responses to immune agents than people that have lower
levels of inflammation. So I think in fact, that there’s a subgroup
of very depressed people that might benefit from a kind of a not chronic inflammation,
but a hit of inflammation. When we get around to talking about hyperthermia,
I can tell you that there’s some evidence that hyperthermia does that, exercise does
that. You know, exercise acutely activates certain
types of pathways we think about as being inflammatory. So I think in the next 10 years, what we’re
going to find out is that, in fact, the immune system is probably involved in every case
of depression, but that the pattern is going to be subtler and more complex than something
just saying that depression is associated with increased inflammation. That’s probably not going to turn out to
be true. Rhonda: And with the exercise, I’ve read
now several studies where exercise is, aerobic exercise and now even strength training exercise,
how it’s almost in some cases, as potent as some of these antidepressants that are
out there in terms of treatment. And as you mentioned, you know, and this is
kind of why I was thinking of this hormetic effect, because exercise does elevate inflammatory
processes acutely and then there’s a response. Yeah, anti-inflammatory response and anti-oxidative
that, you know, is much more powerful than the initial stressor that occurred. So exercise is something that, I think you
had even published some studies, or a study, talking about the effects of exercise on,
what was very interesting to me, what you had called the inflammatory response that
was induced post-prandial, so after you eat a meal. Charles: Oh, yes. That’s a big... Rhonda: It is. What’s interesting to me is I’ve only
really, I’ve heard one other person, one of a colleague of mine who’s brilliant,
his name is Mark Shigenaga. He is a gut expert, so he studies the gut,
gut health, microbiome. He talks about how this postprandial inflammatory
response occurs, because food is hard on the gut and... Charles: It’s a foreign substance, the risk. I mean, thousands of people die every year
from eating out in the United States. Rhonda: Yeah, that’s true. But even in addition to that, in addition
to the bacteria that can, you know, come along with eating some bad food, is that just that
the gut itself, the gut barrier is sort of to some degree, gets compromised with every
meal, you’re releasing a little bit of endotoxin in the bloodstream, because your immune system
is activated. Charles: Leaky gut. Rhonda: Yeah, and so there is an inflammatory
response that occurs, insulin, you know, in itself, the insulin response and all that. So I thought it was very interesting that
you were looking specifically at that, and the effects of exercise, that exercise had
on that. Charles: No, I don’t think that that... But we’ve written about this phenomena. Rhonda: Oh, you’ve written about it? Okay. Charles: Well, you know, and the other thing
is when you eat, it kind of gives you fever. Do you know about diet-induced thermogenesis? So every time you eat, your body temperature
elevates. It’s why people sweat after they eat, you
know, because it’s not a fever per se, because I don’t think it is... I don’t know whether upper regular is a
thermal related set point, but we’ve known for years that, and again you think about
well why, partly because you’ve got to burn off the energy, but it may also be that again
hyperthermia has antibiotic effects, right? So it is true that when you, it is, you know,
any time a foreign substance comes in contact with a vulnerable entry point into the body,
there’s a risk of infection and death, right? There’s a risk of infection and death, there’s
a risk of pathogen manipulation, there’s all sorts of things. So it shouldn’t be surprising that that
happens, nor should it be surprising that fasting has a powerful anti-inflammatory effect. There’s some beautiful data in animals,
but also beautiful data in human too. There was a study in 19 normal volunteers,
and they looked at the effect of a, like a 24-hour fast on something called the NLRP3
inflammasome. It’s the intercellular thing that connects
up and it activates inflammation, turns on this thing called IL1 Beta. So you fast, and that the expression, the
gene expression for that complex, just goes down, down, down, down, down. Then they let the people eat again, it goes
up, up, up, up, up. And they look at sort of leaky gut, and you
find that eating sort of opens the gut up to leakiness too. Which may be just a bummer, that may just
be that we can’t be built better than that. Or it may be an evolved adaptive mechanism
to kind of activate a little bit of inflammation, you know, that when you kind of get things
kicked up in your body, you look around. I think the core idea here, and we’re talking
about this in terms of the evolution of depression, is nature is really smart. It’s a compromise, it’s not perfect. But, you know, you go, “Geez man, that’s
bad. You get a leaky gut when you eat.” Well yeah, but across millions of years, if
that was so bad, the gut would have figured out a way not to do that. It probably is an evolved strategy that every
time you are exposed to death by an infection, the body responds with a little bit of pre
potent inflammatory response, just to get everything kicked up and to deal with it,
you know. And of course, yeah, you pay a little bit
of a price in terms of tissue damage, but it’s a smoke alarm principle. That little bit of damage is more than outweighed
for the one time you don’t do it then you die. Rhonda: Yeah, right. So it totally makes sense, because the gut
is what is exposed, the internal environment, I mean. So that’s... Charles: I mean, when you think about it,
that’s the big one, right? Rhonda: Right. Charles: I mean, the skin is a much more robust
protector against... Any membrane that’s wet, it’s just bad
news in that way. But it has to be for us to survive to eat,
and it’s sort of the compromise that we’ve evolved. Rhonda: I’m pretty interested when you’re
mentioning this hyperthermia in terms of, you know, people that are depressed having
elevated core body temperature. I’m super interested in the study that you
published where you had used whole body hyperthermia to treat major depressive disorder, or at
least a single bout of it seemed to have a lasting effect for six weeks. Whole body hyperthermia, to me, it sounds
very similar to using something like a sauna, would you say it is? Charles: Oh yeah, yeah. It’s just the heat. Rhonda: Okay. Charles: I mean, the machine is fancy, it’s
like a $50,000 machine. It uses infrared lights. It kind of cooks you from the inside out,
and that allows you to get hotter, with less misery, you know. Because saunas, I mean, you know, you’re
getting that heat on your skin. It’s hard, right? Rhonda: It’s definitely hot. Charles: Yeah. I mean, I’m a big steam room sauna fan. But the box is very different. So I put myself in this machine to see what
I was doing to people. I’ve never been so... So to back up, yes, you’re right, we did
do a study, and we treat people to a core body temperature of 38.5 centigrade, which
is 101 point something or other, which is unbelievably hot if you don’t wanna be that
hot. I mean, I’d never been that hot in my life. I mean, sweat was just pouring off my body,
and I was huffing and puffing. I felt like I’d been running for 10 miles
out in the desert summer, you know. It’s really hot. It’s mild hyperthermia, but it’s hot. Now we have colleagues, David Mischoulon and
Maren Nyer at Harvard that have joined us in hyperthermia work, and she especially is
interested, and has a grant to study hot yoga, and convincing people to wear a rectal probe
when they’re doing hot yoga. And hot yoga, which also, you know, makes
people sweat like pigs, elevates core body temperature too, interestingly, exactly the
same place, 38.5. Rhonda: Oh, wow. Charles: Right. You know, a lot of people when I talk about
hyperthermia, and I give talks to folks. A lot of people, if it’s a crowd, will come
up afterwards and say well, “You know, hot yoga.” And like, a lot of people are hooked on hot
yoga, and it’s because, I’m convinced it’s because it’s an anti-depression strategy. That they are essentially doing something
very similar to what we do in the box. And, you know, most people, it took about
an hour, hour and a half, for most people to get up to that 38.5. And then when that happened, we turned off
the heat, but we left people in the box because it stayed warm and their core body need to
be elevated for at least another hour. So even the timing of hot yoga is probably
consistent with sort of our hyperthermia machine. Rhonda: So the hot yoga, sauna, I mean, maybe
a hot bath, like if you say, so basically anything that’s... Charles: It’s the heat. Rhonda: Yeah. Charles: Yeah, that’s true. There’s some interesting data on hot baths
improving autistic symptoms, right? There’s people looking at this in New York,
right? So yeah, there’s a story there. Rhonda: Yeah. There’s a personal story for me in terms
of the sauna. One of the reasons why I got so into using
the sauna was because in graduate school, I lived across the street from the YMCA, and
they had a sauna there and so I was just, you know, using the sauna. I’d go into this, I’d use the sauna before
I would go into the lab and do my experiments for the day. Charles: Yeah. Rhonda: And, you know, as you know, graduate
school is extremely stressful, failed experiments sometimes setting you back six months, and
lots of stress. Charles: Your career going up in smoke. Rhonda: Yeah. I mean, just 16-hour experiments you have
to do, and you’ve got to publish and they’re new, and you’ve got to publish... Well, you know, so it’s very stressful. And what I started to notice was for whatever
reason, the sauna, using the sauna, really, really lowered my anxiety, and my ability
to deal with the stress. Like I was so much... Charles: More chilled out. Rhonda: Yeah. It’s so much easier for me to deal with
all the stress. And it was extremely noticeable, enough for
me, you know, to start to go, “Something’s going on here.” So I started looking at the literature. Of course, my husband, Dan, was doing the
same thing, and he had definitely noticed the same thing. So what was really interesting, I looked in
the literature and found, you know, that using, that heat stress in general, increases...you
dump a bunch of beta endorphins. Well, that’s obvious. That happens with exercise. I think part of the, like you mentioned, you
know, you’re when you’re running or exercising vigorously, your core body temperature is
elevated and that’s sort of part of that endorphin response. But what was really interesting to me was
like at the same time, a friend of mine who was doing some research on the opioid pathway
and he was looking at the kappa opioid pathway, so mu opioid receptors bind endorphins, and
kappa opioid are sort of the opposite of endorphins, is sort of the dysphoric. Charles: The kind of depressorgens. Rhonda: Yeah, dysphoric feeling. You don’t feel great. And he was telling me about some research
with if you agonize that receptor, the kappa opioid receptor, what ends up happening is
the feedback where you have the mu opioid receptors much more sensitive to endorphins,
and you basically are having more of the receptors and they’re more sensitive. So then I started to look in the literature
and found that something that we make in our brain endogenously, called dynorphin, is up
regulated when you’re exposed to heat, because it cools your body down. So I started to go, “Wow, I wonder...” You know, so for example, there are studies
where you expose rats to heat stress and they increased their dynorphin. I thought, “Well, what if the dynorphin
binding to the kappa opioid receptor does actually sensitize mu opioid receptors to
beta endorphins?” So I thought, “Oh, maybe that’s a possible
mechanism why I’m feeling so good, like a lasting effect, where it’s like later
on, you know, weeks later, I’d still feel really good.” So that’s sort of an interesting personal
story for me. I’m not sure if you’ve ever looked into
the dynorphin or beta-endorphin. Charles: Well, so this is a fascinating thing. Yes, indeed. So it turns out, you know, that almost certainly,
within the next, sort of in the next six months, there’s going to be a major FDA approval
for a very novel antidepressant that does the opposite of what you’re talking about. It antagonizes the kappa receptor, so it’s
exactly opposite. Now interestingly though, and I have an interest
in psychedelic medicines, something called ‘Salvinorin A’ is a kappa agonist, and
is also of some significant interest at lower doses as an antidepressant, right? So here’s an example of this phenomenon. It’s a meta issue, and I don’t mean like
meta like the Buddhist meditation, but meta, M-E-T-A, that opposites sometimes do the same
thing. It’s interesting, there’s thing called
an enantiodromia, goes all way back to Heraclitus, back in the... That right, sometimes you can get the same
effect by doing opposite things. So right, the fact that hyperthermia stimulates
kappa receptors, and the fact that blocking them could maybe also have an antidepressant
effect, it’s fascinating but it’s consistent with this sort weird, again maybe kind of
U-shape thing or the fact that opposites can sometimes do the same thing. We don’t know, from our studies, we don’t
know the role that the opioid system played in our outcomes. This is something that, you know, we’re
going to look at down the road. We looked at a bunch of immune stuff. Rhonda: And what did you find with the hyperthermia? Charles: Well, we found that hyperthermia
does exactly same thing that exercise does. Rhonda: Okay. Charles: Which is not so surprising, right,
but which is quite interesting. So to kind of want to kind of nerd out on
the inflammatory pathway, right? When you get sick, what happens is you get
activation of these two primary pro-inflammatory cytokines: interleukin one beta and the tumor
necrosis factor, so IL1 Beta and TNF. They get activated, they do all sorts of stuff. They’re really pro inflammatory. They secondarily activate another cytokine
called interleukin 6, or IL6. Now, IL6 is a bad guy, I think. It’s the one that’s most consistently
elevated, somewhat, in depression. There’s all sorts of evidence that if it’s
elevated, if you’re a Western person hanging around, if I measure your IL6, and if it’s
up, bad. You’re going to get heart attacks, you’re
going to get strokes, you’re going to get cancer, you’re going to get... You know, it’s a bad deal to have your IL6. It’s going to shrink your hippocampus. We know a lot of stuff about that. So it’s a bad boy. It’s activated by IL1, but it’s a sort
of secondary. We’ve also known for years that, I see it
sometimes as a Janus-faced cytokine. It faces two directions, because it also has
anti-inflammatory effects, it activates IL10. So what you see with bad infection, IL1, TNF,
they shoot up, IL6 goes up and you’re sick and that’s how it is, right? What exercise seems to do is it activates
IL6 like crazy, but it doesn’t activate IL1 or TNF. In the blood, if you really, really exercise,
like a maniac, yeah, you can get slight increases. If you look at sort of maybe less horrible
killer exercise, you see this big increase in IL6. If you pull out people’s blood cells and
stimulate them, you actually see reduced release of TNF and IL1. That’s anti-inflammatory thing you’re
talking about, right? So you get this IL6 response, and then you
get the sort of IL10 coming along, which is powerful anti-inflammatory. That’s what we see with hyperthermia. Rhonda: That’s so cool. Charles: Yeah. So in this study, you know, the challenge...we
did a first small, open, sort of clinical study in Switzerland with these colleagues
of mine. Found an old hyperthermia machine in the basement
of this crazy alternative treatment psychiatric kind of castle, hospital. One of the guys is an engineer, he rebuilt
the thing and we started just sticking people in it. We saw this powerful antidepressant response
that we only looked to people five days later, but clearly, five days later their scores
were generally cut in half, right? Then we brought the work to America, and the
challenge of course is that, you know, you’re going to get a very big placebo response from,
you make it everybody is sitting in the box, you get hot and you go, “Oh my God, you’re
doing something for me.” Rhonda: Right. Charles: So we had to invent a placebo, or
some kind of compared, you know, what are you going to compare it to? So what we did was we took this fancy box
that has these big infrared lights, and we went down to Target, this with my colleague
Walter Johnson, brilliant guy for all sorts of mechanical stuff. He just went to Target, he bought a bunch
of desk lamps, painted them orange so that they looked just like the light of the thing,
hid them, so you couldn’t see that they were right there. The machine has a fan, we built a fake fan. And the machine has these heating coils down
at the bottom that kind of make you warm, kinda comfy, toasty but not like you’re
going to die of the heat. And so we put people in the box, we turned
on the fake lights, we turned on the heating coils down there and the fan. More than 70% of the people that got the fake
treatment thought they got the real treatment. So we asked them afterwards, “Did you get
the real or the fake?” and the vast bulk says, “Oh, we got to the real.” Because they were warm, and you know. Not everybody who got the real thought they
got the real, it’s interesting. I mean, their sweat is pouring off the body,
but kinda masochistic if you’re going, “There must be something worse than this,” right? So the fact we saw this massive difference
between the two suggests that it has to do with the heat. In effect, we, just recently we’ve now realized
that in fact, the fake group, the sham group, they got more heat than we probably should
have given them. Some of them actually went up, and those people
had the same kind of antidepressant response as the other people. So yeah, so we know it’s the heat. So compared to that sham as a group, their
immune measures just stay flat. The people that got the real treatment, IL6
shoots up. Now, we measured it beforehand, after. And like Dum-Dums. We should have measured it like six hours
later, but we measured a week later. By a week later and four weeks later, all
the immune measures were back to normal, there was huge IL6. We looked at maybe 12 of these cytokines,
and none of the other ones moved. So it’s just IL6. Now, what’s interesting is the higher the
IL6 went up, if you look at the whole population, the higher the IL6 went up, the more un-depressed
you were a week later. There was a pretty strong correlation. The correlation is even stronger between how
happy you were when you got out of the box, so the acute mood elevating effect which you
noticed from taking a sauna, it nicely correlates with increased IL6. If you had an increased IL6 response, you’re
going to be happier. Now this just flies in the face of this idea
that inflammation is just depressogenic. It really suggests that it depends. It depends on how long it is. It depends what context it happens, and it
depends on how you think about something like IL6, right? So then, you know, we had this really interesting
finding. And after we found this, I was sitting with
one of the great fathers of our field, a guy named Robert Dantzer, down in Houston. I said, you know, “How could this be?”
and he said, “Well, measure something called Neopterin.” Neopterin is a chemical that’s really only
made by activated immune cells, by monocytes, these innate, immune pro-inflammatory cells. So we measure neopterin, neopterin also went
up, and it correlated very strongly with the IL6. So for quite a while I thought, “Wow, I
guess we’re doing some kind of weird immune activation that I don’t understand.” But what I’ve come to realize more recently,
and this is really working with these folks at Harvard: Simmie Foster and the folks I’ve
mention Dave Mischoulon and Maren Nyer. I think what’s going on is that IL6 is not
just activated by immune cells that we were talking about earlier. It’s activated by fat cells, but it’s
really activated by muscle cells in the context of exercise, or in the context of heat. There’s animal data showing that if you
induce heat shock, so if you really heat up a road, you get massive IL6 production from
the muscle cells that spills in the circulation, and powerfully suppresses TNF and IL1, so
you don’t get a rise there. Which is exactly what we saw. So now I think what’s going on is that,
so, you know, you talk about the immune system, and the brain being one unified organ. Really of course, so are the muscles. IL6, which we think of it as mostly inflammatory
cytokine in the context of sickness, is a myokine in the context of exercise. We know in the context of exercise that IL6
plays a key role in exercise’s ability to induce insulin sensitivity. So if you block IL-6 in a row that exercises,
you block all the beneficial metabolic effects. Rhonda: Oh, wow. Charles: Now, there’s also a study, interestingly,
showing that if you look at the beneficial effects of exercise on sort of muscle restructuring,
this is humans. If you exercise and take a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
agent, you get rid of all those good effects. Rhonda: Right. Right. Yeah. Charles: You’ve seen that, right? Rhonda: I think I’ve seen that. Also, there was another study very similar
to the anti-inflammatory, where they’re saying the NSAIDs. So there’s another study that showed taking
high dose, alpha-tocopherol, no, vitamin c, so antioxidants, also suppressed the insulin
sensitivity effects of exercise, possibly through, because you’re not activating that
whole inflammatory. Charles: Well, exactly. What you really would like to do is sometimes
activate these compensatory systems, right? Rhonda: Right. Charles: If you can activate your inflammation
in a way...You know, if you think about exercise, right, we were talking off camera, I think
we were off camera, about the fact that I’m going to go run around Mission Bay here and
I’m going to get an increase in my inflammation. Well, with these caveats, that it’s a certain
pattern, but you get certain your IL6 is going to go off. But over time, the net result is a reduction
in chronic inflammation. So it’s like if you hit a system a certain
kind of way, what I think is that it’s like a spring. You know, you kinda want the dial to be over
here, so you’d think the simple thing to do would be just to move the dial over here. But that often weakens. You’ve been using this with hormesis right? Rhonda: Exactly. Charles: Exactly, this idea. Doing this weakens the system’s own sort
of internal capacity, so what you get is a dependence on that external element to keep
the system in that state. On the other hand, although it seems paradoxical
if you take it this way, but not chronically but just...and you pull the spring back and
you let it go, it sort of drives the system into that other state. We have some evidence from this hyperthermia,
it’s interesting. So you would think if the world was simple,
that if you’re depressed and cold, I should heat you up, and if you’re depressed and
hot, I should cool you down. But in fact, the opposite is true. So in the European study, we actually very
successfully measured core body temperature the day before they got to treatment, and
five days after. What we found was that the hotter you were
before you got into the box, the better antidepressant response you got. Rhonda: I was going to ask you about. Charles: Right. What we found from five days after being in
the box, everybody’s core body temperature was really lower over 24 hours. So the box didn’t make people hotter, it
made them cooler. What we were actually inducing was hypothermia. We used hyperthermia to induce hypothermia. Rhonda: Long term, you mean? Charles: Longer term. Rhonda: Which would be like a, almost like
a hormetic effect. Charles: Yeah, it is. We toughened the system. We toughened up the system. We recalibrated. And this is really the work of my colleague,
Christopher Lowry, at UC Boulder, in Colorado. What we think we’ve done, is sensitized
thermal regulatory cooling pathways so that the heat actually exercised them in some way,
or shocked them into being more sensitive. There is a giant literature on this fact that
thermoregulation is impaired as we said in depression. Depressed people can’t cool off. They can’t sweat. They can’t cool off. So what we think we’ve done is sensitized
the pathways of the brain and the body that mediate those effects and that that’s a
marker for that sort of...we’ve also then strengthened anti-depressants levels. Rhonda: It’d be interesting to look at dynorphin,
that whole system. Because that is involved in this. Charles: I know. Because it’s also, what do they call it,
a cryogen, it cools. Rhonda: Yeah. Don’t schizophrenics also have a similar
problem in terms of thermal regulation? Charles: They do. They’ve got really, really crazy thermal
regulatory challenges, right? So that means when you see folks out, you
know, it’s a tragedy, when you see them out on the street, one of the things you notice
about schizophrenics is it can be hot, and they’re wearing three or four coats. So they really, really have thermal regulatory
problems. If I think about it for a minute, I’ll be
able to tell you there’s a study where they found that they do better...so what do they
do better? They do worse with cold and better with heat,
or they do worse with heat? One of the two. But it’s interesting that it’s not all
bad. Rhonda: The thermal regulation. Yeah. Charles: But their thermal regulation is absolutely
whacked, right. Rhonda: Yeah. Charles: I mean, you see these guys, you know,
and women, right? So it’s not just depression. Rhonda: I was making a mental note when you’re
talking about IL6 being a myokine in the muscle. Because, you know, a very interesting, there’s
a few interesting studies that have been cropping up over the last couple of years in terms
of another mechanism by which exercise, and specifically, activating muscle cells, helps
treat depression through this kynurenine pathway. I guess, you know, for people that aren’t
familiar with kynurenine, it’s basically a byproduct of tryptophan metabolism. When your immune system is activated in the
case of chronic inflammation, for example, you’re not converting tryptophan into serotonin,
you’re actually converting into something else called kynurenine, which activates immune
cells. But the problem is that kynurenine can form
is it quinolinic acid? Charles: You can find kynurenic acid and quinolinic
acid, that’s right. Quinolinic acid is definitely a neurotoxic
agent. Rhonda: Okay. It’s evolved into depression, somehow? Charles: Yeah, it is. We actually did the study, again, this is
Andy Miller and I, years ago in the interferon alpha work. We had the good sense to do spinal taps on
people, right? So we drew up the fluid around their brain
spinal fluid, and looked to see does chronic inflammation delivered by interferon-alpha
change serotonin metabolism? So Michael Moss and Lucile Capuron, and a
number of people in the early 2000s, began to show that chronic inflammation activated
an enzyme called Indoleamine 2,3-Dioxygenase. This is an enzyme that basically, as you said,
takes tryptophan and shunts it away from serotonin into kynurenine. Now, there’s an evolutionary advantage to
this too. You don’t want your bugs to have the serotonin,
and you don’t want them to have the tryptophan, so you block that enzyme and death rates spiral
in certain infections. I can’t remember, I used to know all this
stuff, but there are certain infections where they’re just lethal. Rhonda: Wow. Charles: I think Leishmaniasis is one of them. I think, but I’m not sure about that. So anyway, yes, you get everything is shunted
to kynurenine. So we knew that the more that enzyme got kicked
up, the more depressed people, got under chronic inflammation. That was shown by several different groups,
it seems to be a reliable thing. But of course, this was just in people’s
blood. You can look at the ratio of kynurenine to
tryptophan, and that tells you how active enzyme is. We got spinal fluid and showed that indeed,
and this is really interesting, that the interferon definitely jacks up kynurenine. Kynurenine levels in the blood and the spinal
fluid are very, very similar. So we think it’s getting across. But you see a massive increase in quinolinic
acid and kynurenic acid. Setting aside the kynurenic acid, which is
interesting. It’s an NMDA antagonist. Quinolinic acid is an NMDA agonist. It causes neurotoxic effects. Quino linic acid skyrocketed under interferon
treatment. That’s what’s associated with depression,
powerfully. Now, on the other hand, we actually measured
tryptophan in the blood and the spinal fluid around the brain, and there was no effect
if tryptophan falls in the periphery, but it’s maintained in the brain. So there’s a, I can’t remember the name
of it, but there’s, it’s an amino acid pump, it’s got a fancy name, that basically
actively transports amino acids. So although we never really followed up on
this, the suggestion is that when you’re under chronic inflammation or some sort of,
what’s the word I wanna use, accommodation that’s made so that your tryptophan, you
preferentially shunt tryptophan into the central nervous system, probably because you’ve
got to have serotonin in there. Rhonda: Rights. So what I know at least with the inflammation,
I’m not sure, but I know that exercise itself, and I’m getting sidetracked with what I
originally wanted to say, but that exercise, so the transport system that transports tryptophan
in the brain also transports branching amino acid like isoleucine, which unfortunately,
outcompete tryptophan. However, exercise causes this branching amino
acid to be taken up in the muscle cells, and it sort of alleviates the competition of tryptophan. Charles: So you get more tryptophan. Rhonda: You get more serotonin. Charles: Right, that’s interesting. So inflammation has hit upon sort of the same
thing. So really, it looks like exactly is that kynurenine
and its metabolites almost, I mean, those are results that have been replicated. But they’re probably more relevant bad actors
through that pathway in terms of the depression genesis in the context of inflammation than
is the drop in serotonin. Rhonda: Right. Charles: Right. Rhonda: Yeah. So the studies that I was wanting to talk
about, or tell you about, you probably have seen them, but where exercise, this has been
shown now, it first was shown in animal studies and then more recently in the past, I think
it was 2017, it’s been shown in humans where it causes muscle cells take up kynurenine
so they can’t form quinolinic acid, which then means you’re not getting that. Charles: Exactly, so you’re not getting
all that, that’s right. Rhonda: So there is another mechanism that
was... Charles: It’s fascinating. Rhonda: Yeah. And I’m not exactly sure why that happens,
or all the logistics, but that’s another very interesting way, this exercise inducing
the hyperthermic effect and the anti-inflammatory effect after the inflammation is generated,
this hormetic effect, the increased serotonin getting in the brain, because the trypto... There’s so many different mechanisms by
which exercise seems to affect depression in a positive way, and again, the hyperthermia
itself. So, you know, whether it’s through the exercise
or the hot yoga, or the sauna, or the hot bath, or the steam shower. Charles: These things do interdigitate with
each other in really interesting ways, don’t they? Rhonda: Yeah, they do. Are you familiar with heat shock proteins? Charles: Well, that’s what we’re looking
at with the Harvard folks. Rhonda: Oh, really? Take a look at, if you’re not familiar with
this study, I may have sent it to you, “Heat Shock Protein 105.” There was a study in mice where, I’m not
sure, I didn’t read the whole method section, how they induced the heat shock protein 105
in mice, and then they subjected them to a battery of, you know, stress tests that they
do to make depressive symptoms in animals as best they can. But what was found was that animals that had
increased heat shock protein 105 were protected from these depressive symptoms, you know,
after their, whatever stress tests they did, and that was correlated with an increase in
brain derived neurotrophic factor in one part of the brain region, I can’t remember. So the heat shock protein was causing an increase,
like you were saying, like an inflammation. Charles: What we think now is actually the
heat is probably activating the heat shock proteins, which is then, you know, contributing
to the IL6 being released properly from the muscles, which is then...we haven’t done
the study yet, so I don’t know. But we’re going to dump some IL6 on immune
cells to see if it can produce neopterin. Because then it’d be sweet, then we’d
know well, you know, it wasn’t the immune cells that were making the IL6, it’s the
IL6 then is maybe driving secondary immune effects, right? Please, do send me that, because I, you know,
I’m trying to bone up on... The greatest thing about science as opposed
to art, unless you’re just a great, great artist is, you know, in art you’re always
trapped in your own head, right? That’s why I like, you know, pop stars. Their songs all sound similar, because they’re
operating in their own head. Science, nature is so much more complex than
our imaginations, that it takes you places, you know. I mean, I started out running emergency psychiatry
up at UCLA, you know, I mean, and somehow over the last 20 years, I’m now having to
teach myself about heat shock proteins. Rhonda: Right. Charles: How did this happen? You know, I was just an immune system guy
just trying to mind my own business. The subtlety of evolved natural processes
take you places. Rhonda: Isn’t it the best? Charles: It’s the best. It’s just the greatest damn thing. Rhonda: I mean, if the same thing happens
with me, you know, coming from a biochemistry background and studying metabolism, and cancer,
and all this, and I’m like into the brain and autism, and I just getting serotonin. You know, I love it. You know, it’s absolutely true that it takes
you to very interesting places. Certainly, biology is always surprising you,
you know. It’s never like you predict. Charles: Yeah, that’s right. Rhonda: But we were talking a little bit like
off camera, about some of the, you know, you were talking about these, some societies,
that were doing these running long term, running as a sort of possible treatment for depression,
or? Charles: Well, not treatment for depression,
these are spiritual practices. Rhonda: Okay. Charles: So one of my interests, and this
is what we were talking about off camera, was... It’s complex how I came to this, but, you
know. So I was a clinician, saw thousands and thousands
of patients a year, and then I became a kind of a researcher and focused on exactly what
we’re talking about. This immune brain interface. One thing led to another, and it’s interesting
to trace the steps, but I began to realize, you know, we begin to look at interventions
based on these things. I begin to realize that the scientific data
were pointing to the fact that a number of things that people seem to have repeatedly
discovered across human history, in widely different cultures, mostly for healing and
spiritual purposes, seem to have biological effects and behavioral effects that might
be relevant for depression. And so I, like I said, I’m not the ultimate
retread guy. That really, a lot of what I end up doing
is looking at what I sometimes call ancient practices and seeing how can we kind of repurpose
them for the modern world? So a lot of my work over the last five years
is based on this idea, that human beings, although we’re really remarkably flexible
animals, we have a lot of species typical behaviors, and we have I think a lot of species
typical needs from the environment. There were certain signals across, you know,
probably a couple of million years of hominid evolution that reliably signaled either wellbeing
and sort of evolutionary success, or danger and failure. We sort of need those signals to orient ourselves
rightly in time, space and behavior. A lot of them have been just profoundly disrupted
by the modern world, and so what you get in the modern world this is wonderful opportunity
to do things you never could have done in any sort of hunter and gatherers society. This is a wonderful time to be alive, but
it’s an astoundingly disorienting time to be alive. And so what I’m interested in is trying
to, in a sort of intelligent way, bring back some of, ways to bring back these ancient
wellbeing inputs, and integrate them more into our lives so that we get the foundation
of a felt mind, body sense of stability and wellbeing, right? So it turns out that some of the really interesting
ways to do that were co-opted way back. A lot of the easy, low hanging fruit, easy
tricks, were discovered, you know, probably in Paleolithic times, but certainly in the
last 10,000 years. You can make a list of them. It turns out that there are a lot of things
we were talking about. So immune system stuff, not so much, except
that humans co-evolved to, you know, we co-evolve with so many different types of microorganisms
that really, we should look at ourselves as a sort of, not as individuals but as communities. Now, those connections have been profoundly
disrupted in the modern world, and that accounts for a lot of the, sort of allergic, asthmatic,
auto immune problems we have, but I also think a lot of depressive problems. Rhonda: You’re talking about the gut microbiome? Charles: Microbiome, but also not just in
the gut, but there’s a lot of pseudo-commensal. So we existed in a world where trillions of
environmental organisms pass through us all the time, right? They didn’t live in us, but they’re constantly
passing through us. So over time, we become reliant on them to
calibrate our immune systems correctly. Of course, things that pass through us also
then marginally, they want to live within us, that they form kind of a home in. So in that way, there’s an immunological
story around ancient associations, around the fact that really we would do well to sort
of recalibrate ourselves. We don’t wanna be hanging out with, you
know, we don’t wanna go back to the times when 50% of everybody born was dead by 15
from infection, but we don’t wanna throw the baby out with the bathwater. We want to reintegrate the sort of beneficial
bacteria, and not just bacteria, but viruses and fungus, and the whole...We wanna get that. But then if you look at things that humans
have done repeatedly to induce well-being, to induce healing, to induce sort of transcendent
states, you can make a list, heat, right? It’s astounding, the number of cultures
in the world that use phasic exposure to high heat for healing purposes, or for transcendent
purposes. I mean, we’re sitting in the new world,
and certainly, the use of things like sweat lodges, and Temazcals were just were rampant
in new world indigenous cultures, but across the old world too, you know. If you look at the healing rites in the ancient
world, you know, hot baths were just a huge part. So it’s a widespread human thing. All around the globe, so many groups recognized,
you know, it’s not just living in a chronically hot environment, it’s this outrageous heat
for a time limited basis, right? I mean, why would you repeatedly stuff yourself
in a smoky, hideous, dark, miserable, sweat lodge, right? Answer, because that’s what sort of face
heated exposure induces profound states of positive wellbeing that have antidepressants
effects, right? There is one. Fasting. You know, almost every religion worth its
salt, both indigenous and the sort of world religions, have fasting is a key element. Well, what does fasting do? Fasting has powerful anti-inflammatory effects. It has powerful beneficial metabolic effects. And although to my knowledge, nobody has rigorously
studied fasting as a treatment for depression, there’s a lot of that looking at fasting
for related things like pain. And the many studies have given mood questionnaires,
fasting has powerful mood elevating effects, and it almost certainly has antidepressant
effects. Running. So the reason I’m giving this whole preamble
is, it is amazing to me the number of cultures in the world that have used intense, maybe
excessive running, as a way of inducing, you know, sort of powerful spiritual states. You see it all around the Native American
world, right? I mean, oh, it’s just crazy how many cultures
use this. It’s become a movement nowadays in Native
American communities to use running as a way to sort of overcome a lot of the challenges:
alcoholism and drug use, and those things that exist in those communities. And it’s been very successful, it’s interesting. There’s community for instance, in Navajo
land, they’ve got some great things going on where they’re re-exposing kids to long
distance running. I have a long connection with Tibetan Buddhism,
and that was very much a practice there. In Buddhism, and we were talking about this
off camera, but there’s Japanese Zen, they’re the world record holders. They have this seven-year crazy, crazy, crazy
running protocol training where at the end of it, people run more than 50 miles a day
for 100 days straight. And many people die doing this, because they
have to run carrying all their books, and they run in these crazy wooden shoes. Only 48 people have successfully done it since
the 1850s. But why would you do this? Well, you do this because it’s believed
to be a massive inducer of transcendent states. It’s a way to achieve Buddhahood in one
lifetime. And buried deep within very esoteric Tibetan
Buddhist Tantra medical texts, are descriptions of natural states that are closest to the
mind of the Buddha. So if you ask, you know, what are the states
that, these are not states of enlightenment, but if you wanna know as you wander around
in your life, what are the states where you come closest to the mind of the Buddha, one
of them is running to the point of exhaustion. Now, others are sneezing, urinating, defecating. There’s a whole list of them. It turns out that from a tantric Buddhist
perspective, rapid shifts in autonomic nervous system functioning seem to be the sort of
simulacrum for, you know, the mind of enlightenment, but running to the point of exhaustion being
one of them. So running especially, because you think about
across evolutionary time, they didn’t have bicycles, they didn’t have the things we
have now so it’s not so surprising. Now, of course, you know, this ties in, because
I’m kind of a reductionist. I’m always interested in how these sort
of spiritual practices were exacted out of behaviors that were necessary for survival
and reproduction. You know, there’s this really interesting,
Dan Lieberman is kind of the famous guy at Harvard, but there’s this idea that human
brains may have evolved largely in response to long distance running, do you know that? Like persistence hunting. Rhonda: Yeah, I know. I didn’t know about this theory. Charles: Oh, yeah, yeah. So this is really, really interesting stuff. You ever wanna go do it, I can hook you up
with the guys who do this. Humans are the greatest thermal regulators
in the animal world, right? It turns out that humans, if you ask, you
know, what is the animal that can run 100 miles the fastest? It’s humans, probably. And the hotter it is, the truer that gets,
right? There’s not an animal on the face of the
earth that can outrun a human being for 100 miles in a hot environment. We know that the human foot evolved long before
the human brain. People had modern feet before they had modern
brains. The human foot is remarkably evolved for running,
the arch, there is a whole huge story on this. So there’s this idea that humans, that one
of the reasons humans were able to develop these huge brains which take up 30% of all
the energy utilization of our body was that we were first able to stand upright and thermal
regulate, that we were able to sweat, that we were able to cool off. And remember we were talking about thermal
regulation being abnormal depression. Thermal regulation is one of the royal roads
into human consciousness in ways that are really profound, including this. So humans are able to thermoregulate, and
are able essentially, to outrun animals, because it turns out that all other animals, especially
four-legged animals, can only cool off by panting, and they can’t gallop and pant
at the same time. So as long as you can keep an animal just
at the pace where they have to gallop every once in a while, they can’t cool off, essentially,
humans can outrun them. And outrun them meaning that the animal develops
heat stroke and dies, right? Rhonda: Wow. Charles: There’s some great footage, you
can just on Google. If you just type in “Persistent Hunting,”
David Attenborough, back now I think 30-40 years ago, went out with a group of song bushman
and showed that they could run an eland to death. Astounding, they ran this huge animal. The animal runs but it just, keep it moving
enough that it can’t cool off, and then finally just stands there and it goes... Rhonda: Because it can’t sweat? Charles: It can’t sweat. It’s dying of heat. It’s heat shock. The guy just goes up, kills it, hauls it back
and eats it, right? So humans, you know, I think many of these
ancient practices that induce heightened states of awareness, evolved out of strategies, unique
human strategies for survival and reproduction. But then they become fascinating on their
own. Exercise is one of them. Another one that I’m particularly interested
and involved with is psychedelics. If you say, “What’s another thing that
humans all around the world did repeatedly and for extended periods to alter consciousness?” It’s psychedelics. It’s much older than just humans. You know, mammals have a tropism, a craving
for drugs that make them hallucinate and go crazy. You can make a list. Many mammal species have their psychedelics:
cats have catnip, elks have a certain kind of moss. So there’s something about mammalian brains
that are drawn to substances that induce the sort of altered states of consciousness, and
widespread use of psychedelic medicines, psychedelic substances around the world. You know, you say, “Well, what do these
things do?” Well, they tap into this interesting human
evolved capacity for transcendent states. You know, they can be induced in all sort
of other ways. One of the most species typical human behaviors
is trying to put yourself in a whacked state, you know, a trance state. Dancing, I mean, there’s a whole list of
these things. The urgency with which these were pursued
in indigenous groups is really highlighted nicely by people that were indigenous in my
part of the world, which is up about 200 miles from here. I grew up in Fresno, in central California. Prior to them all being wiped out, the Yokuts,
that were the indigenous groups in Central California, they were one of the world’s
great shamanistic cultures. But they didn’t have good psychedelic substances
and so they felt so strongly about the need to induce these types of experiences at puberty,
that they would have their young people at puberty, you know, strip naked and lay on
these ant hills. Their bodies would be completely covered with
ants and bitten, bitten, bitten, bitten. And the ants, I don’t know whether formic
acid, I’m not sure what it was, but there’s a substance that if you get, you know, just
hideously bitten, it will induce a psychedelic experience. I mean that’s the length... Rhonda: That’s crazy. Charles: Yeah, that’s the length people
would go to induce these experiences, because they were so integrated into certain societies. Rhonda: Why puberty? Was it like a coming of age? Charles: Yeah. Well, in cultures that have a strong shamanistic
emphasis, there’s a very powerful feeling that you want to identify a spirit guide for
a lifetime. So, you know, psychedelic experiences, or
transcendent trance-like experiences, on a repeated basis, were usually just the province
of a very small group of specialists, shamans that had very complex relationships with the
rest of the population. Very ambivalent. It’s fascinating stuff. But most of these cultures, everybody would
at least have one experience, and if that happened, it would be at puberty. And yeah, I think basically, that’s the
time where you sort of have a transcendent experience that points you to the spirit world
so that you can have, you know, you’re not going to have the same potency of the spirit
guide help that you would have if you’re constantly moving into the spirit realm like
a shaman would, but it was sort of... people would, you know, everybody sort of wants one
of these in those sort of cultures. So I think that’s why they were used there. Now there’s some evidence that “The Eleusinian
Mysteries” of ancient Greece, which we know very little about because they were all kind
of hush-hush. But there’s some suggestion now, I think
in the last 20-30 years, some researchers suggest that they may have also ingested psychedelic
substances, that was sort of at the core. Because these were really the core of spirituality,
especially esoteric spirituality in a Greco-Roman world, you know. And we know so little about because it was
so secret, but they were very widespread. Another example of these things being used,
not just at puberty, but for these sort of transformational purposes, and I know you
would, off camera you told me you interviewed my colleague, Roland Griffiths. Rhonda: Yeah. Charles: And so a number of us are now involved
in this work of looking really rigorously at psychedelic substances as treatment for
depression, because Roland and Steve Ross at NYU, Roland at Hopkins, showed that, you
know, a single exposure to something like psilocybin, which is a psychedelic substance
in magic mushrooms, you know, tends to induce you to very unusual states of mind, that often
have a kind of mystical characteristic to them. A single exposure in a couple of studies induce
these powerful anti-depressive responses that last for like six months, longer. I mean, I know from Steve, you know, that
he’s followed up on people, these are depressed, anxious people with cancer, that those who
are still alive two years, later many of them, most of them are still un-depressed and not
taking... Rhonda: After one experience? Charles: Profoundly life transforming. Rhonda: That is phenomenal. Charles: Oh, it’s fascinating. Rhonda: Yeah, I mean... Charles: It’s one of the most fascinating
things going in our world right now. Rhonda: I know with my discussion with Dr.
Griffiths, he was mentioning, again, he did say that this mystical experience seemed to
be important for the antidepressant effect. Of course, he doesn’t really know the mechanism
why, but parallel to that, there are also some studies looking at a part of the brain
that’s involved in like rumination, forgot what it was called. Charles: The default mode. Rhonda: Yeah, the default mode network. And how that was changed also. Charles: Oh, absolutely, yes. Rhonda: Of course rumination, that’s a big
part of depression. Charles: Huge, huge part. And it’s interesting to link back, there
are studies linking rumination particularly to inflammation. Rhonda: Oh, really? Charles: Yeah. So inflammation probably, preferentially drives
rumination. We know from interferon studies that one of
the places that inflammatory molecules most change in the brain is the rumination center
in the anterior, dorsal anterior cingulate, right? So there’s a beautiful sort of story there. Now why you should ruminate, when you’re...? That’s an interesting question that I don’t
think we know the answer to, why should inflammation make you ruminate? But it does. And yes, rumination is a big problem. Rhonda: Yeah. And that also sort of leads to this, you know,
you’re talking about these transformative experiences which also are brought about by
meditation. And I know you’ve, you know, there seems
to be, at least Roland was talking about some overlap between meditative state and there
is something that’s happening with this mystical experience. You know, there are sort of mystical experiences
that are like calming to nerves. Charles: Absolutely. It’s very much like sauna versus my $50,000
fancy machine, right? It’s not the machine, it’s the heat. Rhonda: Uh, huh. Right. Charles: I am utterly convinced it’s not
the psychedelic. We know it’s not psychedelic, it’s the
experience. Because we know, every study pretty much that’s
looked this shows that the more intensely you have one of these sort of mystical type
experiences, depending how you define mystical, there’s other ways. Spiritual is almost the better word, because
people also have these very difficult personal experiences but that it makes them feel like
their life, they see their life in a different way that produces a transformation. You know, that realm of response, it’s just
been repeatedly associated with antidepressant and anti-anxiety effects. And not just that, but also these agents seem
to have anti-smoking effect, they help people quit smoking. You see the same thing there, right? So we think that exactly, there’s nothing
special about the psychedelics other than the fact that they can take a wide, wide range
of people and on cue, induce these sorts of experiences. You know, just like if you wanna study inflammation,
it’s great to have interferon because I can just wait around until you get inflamed,
you know, God forbid, but I’m going to wait. I’m going to wait, you know. Or I can just give you interferon shot and
away you go, right? So in the same way, I could wait around for
you to have mystical experience. There was a wonderful study done a number
of years ago, that I unfortunately, wasn’t smart enough to put in my file. I just read about it. Where they did this huge sort of, you know,
anonymous survey of Americans. And I don’t know, some crazy percent, 15%,
20% of people said, “I’ve had a powerful mystical experience that changed my life,
I just never talk about it. I was at the kitchen sink, you know, and I
boom, the world looked like it was interconnected in ways I had never mentioned.” So it happens, but it doesn’t happen predictably. Whereas believe me, if it wasn’t illegal
and unethical, I could give you a big old dose of psilocybin right now, put you on the
couch over there, and it would be very likely you’d have a profound mystical experience,
right? But meditation would do the same thing, absolutely. In fact, last week I was having this really,
I’ve got a colleague named John Dunn, who’s kind of one of the world’s great experts
on Tibetan Buddhism, a great, great scholar, talking about meditative stuff. We were talking about absolutely that we know
people, you know, you can meditate your way into the same types of experience, and I suspect
much more profound experiences, because then you develop. You’re like an athlete of the mystical world,
you know, it’s not just happening to you by a drug. You’re controlling it, so there’s a very
strong overlap. Rhonda: I’ve seen multiple studies where
first there’s studies looking at the brains of long term meditators, and how they various
changes in brain volume in some parts of the brain, and all sorts of things going on. And that taking people that are not experienced
meditators and putting them apart of this like two-month program, how they can have
similar changes in their brain. So clearly, like you’re saying you’re
kind of like an athlete of this world, where you’re absolutely changing, you know, the
way your brain’s responding to emotional stimuli. Charles: Yeah. We did one of those studies, it’s interesting. Rhonda: Right. Yeah, so you did the study? Charles: Yeah, looking at compassion meditation
and mindfulness meditation, and then that kind of health discussion with two groups. Yes, absolutely, we found some very interesting
results. And Ricky Davidson, a colleague of mine, one
of my sort of mentors at the University of Wisconsin has done studies showing that you
can take people that are novices and get effects, if you really give them like eight weeks of
hard core meditation. Of course then, there’s all sorts of interesting
data of these people that are just, you know, amazing long term meditators, having very
different types of brain pattern activities. Rhonda: Yeah. I think I even mentioned to you, I’m not
a meditator in the traditional sense where I’m sitting in a quiet room with my eyes
closed, but I do, for many years, running has been my meditation. Charles: Me too. Rhonda: Yeah. There’s a place I go in my brain when I
am running that I am, sometimes I’m in the present, sometimes I do daydream, sometimes,
you know, but it’s a very, like I just feel so good, it feels so good after, and it helps
calm me. If I’m anxious about something and I go
for a run, I mean, it’s immediately therapeutic for me. Charles: Absolutely. Rhonda: So I mean, what do you think? Right now I would say that if a person was
depressed or anxious, if it hasn’t sort of life event that may be induced that, a
divorce or something like that, they go and see a psychiatrist and they get prescribed... Charles: A medicine. Rhonda: A medicine, typically you know. Charles: SSRI. Rhonda: SSRI, or something like that. Which aren’t necessarily always effective
and could have side effects. There are many of these different lifestyle
interventions: the weight loss, the exercise, the whole body hyperthermia via your favorite
method, sauna, hot yoga or hot bath. There’s meditation, there’s these, you
know, psychedelics which of course, that would be something that you can’t really, it’s
not legal yet. But for the ones that are, do you think there’s
any hope that the medical community will embrace them, that we’ll start to have a treatment
centers that people are now can, they can go and meditate, or do hot yoga or sauna,
or they can at least be told by their physician, “Try this?” Charles: Oh, yes. Oh, yes, yes. Yes, the science is going to go this way. So it’s very interesting. I mean, I specialize in depression, that’s
kind of what I do. And it’s a very, and actually my colleague,
Christine Whelan and I, are writing a book about these ancient practices we’re talking
about, and looking at it in relationship to the pluses and minuses of antidepressants,
right? So there’s an interesting truth, or there’s
an interesting thing about antidepressants that’s not widely known, which is... And it’s a lot like a lot of things. So, you know, if you look at, there’s these
studies showing that if you start out depressed here, and you do eight weeks with an antidepressant
or a sugar pill, the antidepressant gets you down, less depressed. Here’s the antidepressant. Sugar pill, you know, will also get you un-depressed
but lesser, right? So you say, “Antidepressants seemed to work
pretty well for everybody. You know, they seemed to work better than
a sugar pill for people,” but that’s not the truth. Rhonda: Yeah. Charles: John Krystal at Yale did this great
study where they were able... I won’t bore you with the details, but what
really happens is about 70% of people will do much better short-term with an antidepressant
than they will with a placebo. I mean, they really feel better. So there’s a group of people that really
do well with antidepressants. And by ‘well’ here, what I mean is that
they were really coming apart with depression and now, you know, couple or three weeks later,
they feel like they’ve got their life back. They feel better. They feel fantastic. Twenty five percent of people that are depressed
will do much worse with an antidepressant than they would with a sugar pill. And that’s what’s not widely known. We’ve seen a very similar pattern in some
of our immune interventions studies. It seems like all interventions, or many interventions,
may share this. That if they help some people, they may actually
hurt others. So the first thing I say to people is, you
know, if you’re depressed and anxious, and if it is impairing your life, I mean, where
you’re really having trouble, you know, where you just, you really have it, there
is some very good chance that if you take a regular antidepressant, you will feel considerably
better, and there’s some chance that you’ll feel like way better, right? That could be very useful, and so it’s just
bracket that. I mean, that these agents are very powerful
for a not insignificant subset of the population that’s depressed. It’s also possible if you take one of those
agents, that in fact, it’s not going to help you. That happens a lot. Now, what you don’t know in fact, is that
by it not helping you, you know... So if you look at these studies where what
happens is if you don’t respond to an antidepressant, most the time if down is good, you just stay
the same. But if I’d given a sugar pill, you would
have done much better, right? So you come to me and you say, “I’m just
not responsive to antidepressants.” What’s actually happening is that those
antidepressants are a absolutely non-optimal intervention for you, right? So there’s a whole bunch of people that
antidepressants are not optional for, or are not optimal for. So that’s the first thing. So if you’re one of those people, then what
do you do? And that’s where these other things become
very, very interesting. But the problem with antidepressants, as I
sometimes say, and I, you know, I’m a psycho-pharmacologist. I have seen antidepressants save many lives,
and I’ve seen many people benefit from them. But they are a bit of an unearned grace. They take you from a state, when they work,
they take you from a state where you just feel horrible about yourself, feel horrible
at the world, you’re anxious, you’re miserable, you’re not eating, you’re not sleeping,
or eating too much and, you know, you’re just, you’re down yourself. Everything is dark. You can barely get out of bed. You know, you’re scared of your shadow. You can’t make decisions. They can take from that and in a month, you
can become like super yourself, when they work. Now you’re confident, you feel better, all
that stuff that was bothering, you’re like, “Yeah, what’s the big deal? You know, sue me.” All of a sudden the world responds better. They go, “Oh, I’m so happy to see you.” This is “Listening to Prozac,” that famous
book from the 90s, that’s a real phenomenon. But the problem is, and it goes back to what
I said about the spring versus the thing where you become dependent on. You’re only that person when you’re taking
the antidepressant. You take away the antidepressant, and it fades. So that’s problem number one. What you would really like to do is find a
treatment that whatever it does, it induces something that’s less dependent on something
external for your sense of wellbeing. The other thing about antidepressants is there’s
some data, there are some data that the longer you take them, you may become more and more
reliant. You may need them to feel good. There’s some evidence that they may induce
a vulnerability, so you have to make a decision in your life, you know, are you going to to
be Rhonda alone, or are you going to be Rhonda plus Prozac? And that’s a weird thing. Rhonda: Yeah. I think I’ve even seen some evidence where
there’s changes in, there’s down regulation of serotonin receptors, for example, and you’re
constantly, you have serotonin synapses that’s not, you know, being the reuptake like it
should. It’s staying around, and so the receptors
are like, “Oh, there’s more serotonin and so we should down regulate.” So again, if you were to take that away, all
of a sudden you have down regulation receptors and it, your baseline is now even, you know. Charles: So relapse rate, so you can take
people, and there’s a lot of studies now. You can take people that have been in full
remission, taking an antidepressant for two years, you take it away and 60% to 80% of
them will have relapsed within a month. I mean, especially if stop it quickly, right? Rhonda: Yeah. Charles: Whereas initially, if you take away
a placebo, a lot of people do pretty well. So placebo responses are more stable and more
long lasting than antidepressant responses. And that is a shocker real, I mean, for those
of us in the field. So it really speaks to the fact that the strategy
of dealing with the adversities of life, and dealing with depression, which is really sort
of an involved response to adversity, I think it’s mostly involved response to microbial
adversity, like we were talking about. Just now, that’s what it is, all around
the world. You know, if you’re sick, if you’re stressed,
if things are going badly and you’re vulnerable to it, that’s what sets you off into depression. Well, you know, it’s much better to take
an antidepressant than to kill yourself, or to have your life come apart, or to just fall
apart. Rhonda: Of course. Charles: But it would be even better if you
could find something that would allow that antidepressant response to become endogenous
to your own brain-body system. That’s where these alternative practices,
and I think some of these ancient practices, have promise. I don’t think any of them are antidepressants
the way an antidepressant is an antidepressant. I think all these things, what they do is
that they set you on a path, or they open a door, for you to begin to transform yourself
in ways that are going to protect you from depression. Because one of the things that when you live
with depression for a long time, and you watch it, what you see is that the things that tend
to make people depressed are those things in their life that are the sort of challenges
that emerge out of who they are in terms of their behavior, their thoughts, their feelings,
right? So they have a lot of examples, but like a
lot of times, people become depressed when they, the person who always chooses the wrong
partner. No matter what they do, they always end up
with somebody that’s abusive to them, or somebody that, yeah. So what they need to do is transcend that
pattern, and if they can transcend that pattern, then a huge driver of their depression goes
away. But, you know, when they get depressed it’s
because they’re approaching it again, or they give up, or they lie to themselves about
it, or they, whatever. Life is like, I believe this deeply actually,
that life is like a series of challenges to perfect sort of the functioning of who I am,
who you are, as a being, the sort of behavioral and biological organization of yourself as
an entity. This is mystical mumbo-jumbo, but I do think
that for reasons I don’t fully understand, that this is the challenge of human beings. Is to sort of perfect it. If you do that, that is the ultimate antidepressant
strategy. Dalai Lama doesn’t get depressed, as far
as I can tell, you know. Because what he’s done, it seems to me,
and I know him somewhat, is that he’s transformed the way his brain-body complex works. So he’s in states of mind that are just,
they’re just inimical to depression, right? So I think that that in fact, is the ultimate
antidepressant strategy. But the problem is that it’s a lifetime’s
worth of work, and it’s extremely difficult. But I think that these alternative things
are more likely to drive you that direction than our modern pharmacology. Rhonda: You make yourself more resilient,
right? Charles: I think when they work, you make
yourself more resilient, and you begin to develop perspectives that line up very strongly
with many ancient wisdom traditions about the truths of what it means to be alive in
this particular universe with its challenges, which are, there’s a myriad challenges. So I think that that is the ultimate way forward. How that works is interesting, because there’s
not, it’s very hard to monetize that. And that’s an interesting challenge, right? Because these other ways are far more easy
to make you know billions of dollars off of. Now, how you combine standard pharmacology
with this pursuit for the sort of, what I call personal transformation view of antidepressant,
you know, thing, that’s another really challenging thing. Sometimes people take antidepressants as an
excuse not to face what’s going on in their lives. Like I’ve known many people, and patients
that they knew, take an example, they’re in a marriage and they know that it’s just
they need to get out, right? But there’s a famous saying that many marriages
are saved by the, usually the women, because the guys are dolts, you know. Like many American marriages have been saved
by the woman just being put on Prozac, because when it works, she goes, “Yeah, you know
I can play bridge. I can play golf. He’s not so bad.” You know, you basically just medicate yourself
away from the truth of what you know at a deeper level to be true for you. In that way, you know, the antidepressant
is actually working against what I would see is this more optimal way of sort of transforming
into to coming into full ownership of who you are. But on the other hand, you know, you can imagine
somebody that gets up to a wall, and they know they need to do this, whatever it is,
but it’s overwhelming. They can’t do it. You know, you put them on antidepressants
for a while and it gives them the sort of chops to hop the wall. Then maybe the antidepressant has become sort
of a tool for transformation. I’ve never seen anybody talk much about
this, and I’ve only been thinking about it for the last six months or so, but it’s
an interesting question. So there’s a lot of complexities around
this dance of, are their optimal ways of combining these things too? But yes, there’s many people that are interested
in trying to invoke these sort of, many of them older ways of transformation. So I’ll make a plug for one of my closest
colleagues, two of my closest colleagues: Rakesh and Saundra Jain, J-A-I-N. They have developed a program called “The
Wild 5,” which is this fascinating online-based resource that basically combines exercise,
diet, sleep, social connectivity, and, what an idiot, I can’t think of the fifth one,
and I’m involved in all this stuff. Let’s see: diet, exercise, sleep, social
connectivity, and meditation. Rhonda: Meditation. Charles: Yeah, mindfulness. it’s a beautiful program because it’s
all, you know, it’s completely sort of user-friendly, and not overwhelming, and doable. It uses a lot of things like tracking your
behavior that make people get the kind of feedback. I’ve been involved in this work with them
because we do so much medical education together, and we do some research together. And the results are really striking. Man, people do it for 30 days and they feel
way, way better. So Rakesh is one of the great psychiatric
leaders at the interface of pharma. The guy is very deeply involved in sort of,
he’s a pharmacologist like me but, you know, way up there. But over the last 10 years, while not abandoning
that, he’s become utterly convinced that that is not the final way forward. That we really need to move into these sort
of transformative wellness practices. Rhonda: Wow. Charles: And so, you know, the king of pharma
goes into this and he brings some of that expertise into it, but it’s a classic example. I mean they and I, many of us are now talking
about, “Well, how can we develop, you know, various levels of programs that interdigitate
these wellness practices?” Rhonda: What was the name of the program? Charles: “The Wild 5.” Rhonda: “The Wild 5?” Charles: Yeah. Rhonda: Do they give you advice on protocols
to follow for diet? Charles: Oh, yes. Absolutely. Rhonda: Oh, wow. Charles: I don’t know, it’s all kind of
protocol, manualized. Oh yeah, they’ve published a book, if you
just Google “Wild 5,” to get there, yeah, you definitely will find. Rhonda: It’s kind of like the, you know,
those five things are so incredibly important. I mean, sleep, of course, sleep deprivation,
all that’s been shown to be, especially with depression or it caused depression symptoms. Charles: Yeah, inflammation, weight gain,
metabolic, all that. Rhonda: All of it. And the other thing we didn’t talk about
was, and you kind of mentioned, you alluded to it with this evolutionary mismatch, you
mentioned, you know, that the world that we live in today is much different. We’ve got all these artificial lights, you
know, we’re... Charles: It’s a big thing. Rhonda: Yeah, our light exposure has totally
changing. You know, some of us are in offices all day
and we’re not exposed to bright light during the day, then we go home at night with all
these lights on. You know, so it’s kind of, there’s a mismatch
there. And I do know that there’s, I think I sent
you a couple of studies, and one was showing that bright light exposure was able to even
help treat people with non-seasonal depression or. Charles: Oh, absolutely. Yeah, there is some nice data on that. Rhonda: Yeah. Charles: Absolutely. Rhonda: What I was kind of trying to make
was the link between cortisol and the bright light exposure. Charles: Oh, yeah, absolutely. Because of course, you know, that’s what
entrains to a large degree of cortisol rhythm, and probably cytokine rhythms too. They also... Rhonda: Right. Yeah. Charles: Absolutely. There’s another example of this idea that
humans evolved to, if not need to function optimally with certain types of inputs. If you say, “Why do they function optimally
with those inputs?” It’s because across a couple of million
years that’s what they got, and so they evolved to function optimally with those inputs. You know, the reason we like bright light
in the morning and dark at night is because for like, until fairly recently, since the
creation of the world, mornings were bright and nights were black. And so we, you know, we marry ourselves to
those conditions because evolution is always trying to optimize the organism to the environment,
that’s the challenge, right? So we optimize to that mixture of light, but
then we also have a, sort of an evolutionary mandate to compete with each other, to be
productive. And so all of a sudden, you invent things
like lights, and now you can stay up all day and night. Rhonda: And work. Charles: And work, because that’s also a
human mandate, right? I mean, we’re these ultimately social creatures,
and so we get ourselves in these double binds where these mandates, you know, one mandate
is if you see somebody’s sweet, eat it immediately as much as you can, because it’s rare and
it’s huge calories, and that’s great. So if that’s true, then maybe we should
just invent nothing but sweet stuff. That’s so awesome, but now we’re killing
ourselves with sweet stuff, so now we need to, you know, renounce. So you always like you get these sort of things
where one mandate in the human world interacts problematically with another, and light is
a classic example of that. Rhonda: Yeah, it is. And the fact that, you know, the circadian
rhythm is regulated largely by light, also by food intake as well. But the cortisol take on it, you know, cortisol
is a hormone that changes like 25% of the human genome. Many of those genes involved in inflammation... Charles: Absolutely, that’s a huge inflammatory. Rhonda: Yeah, exactly. So it totally makes sense that these two are,
they’re interconnected. You know, having just bright light exposure
there is one study where exposing humans to like 10,000 lux of bright light for seven
hours a day lowered their cortisol response during the rising phase when it’s usually
the highest. So obviously, it was a anti-inflammatory sort
of, or depressive, I guess immunosuppressive effect as well because you’re not having
as high of a cortisol response, yeah. But another thing that just so many humans
don’t realize that could also be playing a role in their depression, the way that they’re
responding to emotional stimuli, and all these things. So I personally, we, my husband and I have
optimized, try to optimize to the best of our ability our light exposure. So we have these lights in our house called
Philip Hue, which basically, they can change color. So blue light is what, you know...
Charles: It’s what you want early in the day, and not what you want at night. Rhonda: Not at night. So at night we have it all set where you can
time them so that the shuts off the blue light and it turns on red light. So we have all these red lights around our
house that come on. Charles: Oh, cool. Rhonda: Yeah. And it really, really makes a difference. I mean, you get tired, you know, because you
start making melatonin, and so the sleep onset is much earlier than if you were to have regular,
old blue lights. Yeah. And then we have, you know, apps on our phone
and our computer called lux, sorry, f.lux, which then also tones down the blue light
so your computer screen isn’t emitting the blue light, yeah. But the lights around the house are really
cool. They’re kind of expensive, but really worth
it. Charles: And you have them all around the
house? Rhonda: We have them in every room, yeah. Charles: What are they called? Rhonda: In the kitchen. Philips Hue. Charles: H-U... Rhonda: I’ll send you, H-U-E. Charles: Okay, send that after. Rhonda: I will, yeah. It’s really cool. They do all sorts of colors. They do purple, blue, orange. But we go from the bright, blue to red, yeah. So that’s what we’re using them for. And then the bright light exposure early in
the morning, like having, going outside for 30 minutes, or just making sure you have to
light in the house. Charles: Even on the cloudiest day? Rhonda: Yeah. Charles: You get like 5,000 lux on a cloudy
day. You cannot, yeah, it’s just this... Rhonda: So, you know, on a cloudy day you
get like... Charles: Oh, you get a lot, compared to just
sitting in your average room. Rhonda: And do you know how long, like can
people just use 30 minutes or an hour? Because it’s hard. Charles: It is. I tell people 30 minutes. Rhonda: Thirty minutes. Charles: I mean, yeah, there’s no doubt
that the light boxes really help a lot of people, and not just seasonal people. So there’s another example. There’s an interesting example of a simple
technology recapitulating natural conditions that optimize human emotional wellbeing. Now, the other thing that I’m convinced
is really important is dark. There’s a whole biology on dark. Rhonda: Like during the time when it’s supposed
to be dark? Charles: Yeah. Because even a little bit of light absolutely
screws up melatonin release, you know, blue light, mostly. I mean, that’s why it’s really smart to
do this. But, you know, I mean, we cannot now, the
first academic paper I ever was called “The Moon and Madness Reconsidered,” about why
the moon was associated with madness in ancient times, making an argument that the moon was
essentially a light source that activated manic episodes. Because, you know, sleep deprivation is such
a powerful driver of mania. But as part of that work, I did this massive
research on the history of lighting, and it is so interesting, you know. Like for instance, in ancient Rome, Rome was
so dark at night that you could go out into the biggest street in Rome and you wouldn’t
see your hand in front of your face, unless the moon was out. I mean, it was just pitch black. People take everything in, and it was just
total blackness. London was pitch black, you know. There was a massive prostitution business
that was run on the London Bridge. We know this because Boswell, you know, Boswell,
the guy that wrote the biography of Samuel Johnson, recorded all those dalliances. And, you know, he’d be out there doing it
on the bridge. I actually went back and matched the dates
of his prostitute things with the phases of the moon in the 1760s, and he was always doing
it at the dark of the moon. It was fascinating. I mean, London, the greatest city on earth
in that time, was so dark that you could do that. This is in the 1760s. There’s a guy named Tom Ware, he’s retired
now, but he was sort of the king of the circadian stuff. I mean, he was at NIMH, the National Institute
of Mental Health, and he actually took... He did this great study, and in particular
he took this one just impossibly bipolar person, stuck him in the dark for 12 hours every day
for a year or so, and just profoundly fixed the guy. Now, darkness is another example actually,
of an ancient spiritual practice. So one of the first bizarre sort of tantric
heavy duty Tibetan Buddhist practice, is something called the “Dark Retreat,” where people
go into utter, complete darkness for 49 days straight. Rhonda: Forty nine days, wow. Charles: That’s the length of time that
they believe, that’s the maximum length of time between reincarnation. Rhonda: And are they also in silence as well? Silence and dark. Charles: Silence, except for a couple of times
a day when people slip, they’ve got some mechanism now for slipping food under the
door, people checking them. Rhonda: But they’re not talking to anyone? Charles: No. And they start hallucinating like mad. Rhonda: Wow. Charles: The point of that is utter sensory
deprivation. The point of that then is to, from their perspective,
the point of that is to recognize that the whole world can arise from the creation of
their mind, and so they realize that this world is also sort of insubstantial. I mean, at least that’s my understanding
of the spiritual. But isn’t that amazing that something like
dark can also be appropriated for spiritual practices? Now, whether it would have any therapeutic
potential is kind of unknown, but it’s on my bucket list, not to do 49 days, but to
go. I’ve got an invitation to go check it out,
yeah. Rhonda: Wow. Charles: Very famous television journalist
is going to come. Rhonda: It’s hardcore. Charles: It’s hardcore. Rhonda: Are you familiar with some of the
gene polymorphisms, the snps in... There’s one gene that, I think it’s NPAS2,
I think, that is involved in circadian rhythm, but also there is susceptibility to bipolar
disorder when it’s dis-regulated. So again, sort of this... Charles: Yes. Well, especially bipolar disorder. You know, if depression, if regular depression
is sort of an evolved human response to the adversity of a relationship, bipolar disorder
is a response to the adversity of time. Rhonda: What do you mean by that? Charles: Well, what you see with bipolar disorder
is that the many, so folks with bipolar disorder are also, they can be set off into either
manias or depressions by stress, right? But they’re also exquisitely sensitive to
fluctuations in circadian patterns. So the great way to induce a manic episode
is to just keep people awake. There’s wonderful data from the 1980s from
the National Institute of Mental Health where they’d keep really very ill bipolar patients
in psychiatric wards for years and study every, you know, every episode. And always, depressive but especially, manic
episodes would be triggered by a night of sleep deprivation. You see this clinically. So time is an adversity because it’s, you
know, it’s constantly threatening homeostasis. So, you know, the things we’re talking about,
the sun comes up, the sun goes down, this happens, that happened, this happened, and
your body went up and down. Any time things move, there’s always a risk
of things coming off the rails and breaking, right? So bipolar folks are so profoundly vulnerable
to disruptions in their circadian sleep/wake cycles, in their activity cycles. Helen Frank was one of the originators of
this, called “Chronotherapy.” It came out of University of Pittsburgh, where
they actually, you know, as a therapeutic thing for bipolar sort of, part of it was
education about, you always go to sleep at the same time, you get up at the same time. You know, be careful about air travel. There is a beautiful study from Heathrow showing
that, you know, that there’s a hugely increased risk of people showing up at Heathrow with
a psychotic mania if they come from America to Heathrow, than if they come from Asia to
Heathrow. And the reason is because it’s a sleep deprivation
thing if you’re coming from here, that’s why you’re always exhausted when you land
in Europe. You’ve missed a night of sleep. Oh, so many manic patients I saw in my years
running the emergency psychiatry at UCLA. Many of them were activated by getting on
a plane. Rhonda: Wow. Charles: “I was normal till I got on the
plane. I got off the plane, and the world looked
different.” And then they’re off and gone. Rhonda: That’s what patients would say? Charles: Oh, yeah. Rhonda: Wow. Charles: And the first episodes were often
induced. I mean, people really developed life-long
psychotic disorders in response to... Rhonda: Do you think those people that are
having that are a little more sensitive to the, like their circadian, they maybe have
some snp and...? Charles: Yeah, that’s probably NPAS, which
is one of the great kind of drivers or regulators of the circadian things, is a particular bipolar
disorders, because, you know, it’s a condition where time, the changes of time, the recurrent
changes of time are just a big stressor for that disorder. Rhonda: Yeah. And probably lots of genes are not being regulated
properly, right? Charles: That’s right. Rhonda: And it’s like a transcription factor,
regulating a whole host of genes, and so their response to things are very different because
they’re not activating all those pathways that you’re supposed to activate, you know? Charles: Yeah. Whereas, you know, it’s interesting is,
if you don’t have that bipolar risk, most of us do not end up in the psych hospital
because we missed a night of sleep, right? Rhonda: Yeah, right. Charles: We end up in a psych hospital because
the person we cared about dumped us, or somebody died, or we lost, or we were shamed, or... You know, it’s just the things, when something
tees it off, it’s a different register of things that tee it off. Which is so interesting, it’s one of the
main differences between... Rhonda: When I’m missing out in sleep, like
if I’m traveling abroad, I certainly feel strange when I land in Heathrow, or any other
airport in Europe, or even Asia. But I certainly don’t feel... Charles: You’re not. Rhonda: Yeah. It feels kind of weird. Charles: Right. But you’re not psychotic. Rhonda: No. I don’t actually have that snp so. Charles: Yeah. Rhonda: Fascinating conversation that we’ve
had. We’ve talked about so many different things. Really, you just published a book. What’s the name of the book? Charles: The book, I published it with one
of my other closest colleagues, Vladmir Maletic. It’s called “The New Mind-Body, Science
of Depression.” Rhonda: “The New Mind-Body, Science of Depression.” Charles: Seven hundred pages, it’s a monster. Rhonda: Wow. Charles: Oh, yeah. Rhonda: And so if people are more interested
in sort of learning more about some of the stuff... Charles: So a lot of the stuff we’ve talk
about, right? So all the inflammation stuff we’ve talked
about is in there. All the evolutionary stuff we’ve talked
about is in there. A lot of stuff about the risk factors for
depression is in there. And then if you wanna take just a very deep
dive into the neurobiology of depression, a lot about, you know, kind of wide scale
brain abnormalities and depression, molecular abnormalities and depression. And then a few cases too, that people seem
to enjoy that are sort of a little bit easier, sledding around sort of how these things apply. I discuss hyperthermia, so I actually talk
about one of my hyperthermia cases that had a, like a miracle cure to hyperthermia. So it’s interesting, yeah, a lot of it is
in the book. Rhonda: Cool. And the book so, it’s available? Is it like on Amazon? Charles: Yeah. Published by Norton. It’s available. Rhonda: Awesome. Charles: It’s available sometimes in Barnes
and Noble and it’s available in Amazon now. Rhonda: Great. Really, really happy to have this discussion
with you. Definitely, let’s stay in touch, and I’ll
send you studies whenever I come across some. Charles: Yeah. Rhonda: But thanks so much for taking time
to speak today. Charles: Oh, thank you. This was great, yeah. Really cool. Rhonda: Yeah.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: jL7vVG_CFWA (https://youtu.be/jL7vVG_CFWA) ===

[Rhonda]: Hello, everyone. I am in Finland, sitting here with Dr. Jari
Laukkanen. I'm a little excited to be sitting here with
Jari because I've talked quite a bit about his research involving using saunas and how
that has been shown to improve cardiovascular health and also improve overall longevity. And, to my knowledge, this is actually...your
work is the first research that I've actually seen in humans to show that using the sauna,
you know, can improve longevity. Maybe we can start off by talking about this
study that you did and published about a year ago, I believe, in "The Journal of American
Medical Association," "JAMA," looking at the use of the saunas and sauna frequency and
cardiovascular-related mortality and overall mortality rate. So can you tell us a little bit about the
study itself? [Jari]: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Our study is based on middle-aged population
from Eastern Finland. And at baseline, we measured the use of sauna,
how many times per week and how long time per one session and what was the temperature,
and on the basis of this information, we have studied the association between the use of
sauna and fatal cardiovascular outcomes and mortality. And in this study, we found, really, that
sauna use was inversely associated with the risk of fatal coronary heart disease events
and all-cause mortality. And, after assessment for other risk factors
which have been also measured in this big population-based study, there were still significant
association between the use of sauna and these outcomes. [Rhonda]: Yeah. So if remember correctly, your study showed
that men that used the sauna two to three times a week had a 27% lower cardiovascular-related
mortality compared to men that used it one time a week. And men that used the sauna four to seven
times a week actually had a 50% lower cardiovascular-related mortality than men that used the sauna one
time a week, and that is very robust. So you followed these men for 20 years? [Jari]: Yeah, yeah. The total follow-up time was 20 years, and
we have annually measured new outcomes, and we have followed carefully from baseline until
the end of the follow-up. And, yes, the risk reduction was really, really
obvious and clear, yeah. [Rhonda]: And you said you adjusted for other
risk factors meaning, like, obesity, you looked for people...like obesity, smoking, alcohol,
cholesterol, type 2 diabetes, these sort of factors? [Jari]: Yeah. [Rhonda]: If I remember correctly, you also
looked at socioeconomic status and physical activity, which is important. So these were all...the data's reflective
really of sauna use not, you know, because people that use the sauna tend to also exercise
more so, you know, you have to correct for all those other possible confounding factors,
which you did. So the cardiovascular rate of mortality, were
there certain...like, were you measuring all sorts of different ways people can die from
heart failure? Like coronary artery disease? Heart attack? Are there certain, like atherosclerosis? Was that looked out? Was it multiple, different types of... [Jari]: Outcomes? [Rhonda]: Outcomes. [Jari]: Yeah, yeah. There were different kinds of outcomes. There were heart-related like coronary heart
disease mortality and, also, sudden cardiac death also one of the outcomes. Then we have overall cardiovascular disease
death as an outcome and then, also, all-cause mortality. And there was significant association with
all these outcomes. [Rhonda]: Right. We'll get to all-cause mortality in just a
minute, but I kinda want to talk about the cardiovascular-related mortality. It's so important because I know in the United
States, heart attacks are, you know, cardiovascular disease is the number one killer followed
up by cancer and then respiratory diseases, but Alzheimer's disease is actually climbing
up. In Finland, I believe, cardiovascular disease
is also the number one killer, correct? [Jari]: Yeah. It is still the one. Yeah. [Rhonda]: Yeah, so, you know, if you can do
something that lowers your risk by, you know, 50%, I mean, that's very significant. What do you think? I have my own sort of, you know, I've done
some reading on how the sauna affects in different vascular functions, but you're a cardiologist,
so do you have some sort of...do you speculate on some of the mechanisms by which using the
sauna can improve cardiovascular health? [Jari]: Yeah. Yeah, we have been studying also these mechanisms,
which can be explained to our findings. And one of the most important is the blood
pressure because sauna use, long-term sauna use, can decrease blood pressure level. Actually, we have studied in the same population
and found that there is a reduction of incident hypertension among those who are using more
sauna compared to those who have only, let's say, one session per week. And so blood pressure is really one of the
most important factors which can explain the findings. [Rhonda]: And do you know why sauna lowers
blood pressure? Do you? [Jari]: There may be many reasons. We know that it can balance the autonomic
nervous system as well and, also, it can improve the vessel function. [Rhonda]: Endothelial cells? [Jari]: Yeah, endothelial cells. And another thing is that sauna may have some
effect on arterial stiffness, and compliance of arteries can improve after long-term sauna
use. [Rhonda]: Wow. So a lot of these parameters that you just
described all also known to be affected by cardiovascular exercise, right? [Jari]: Yeah, yeah. [Rhonda]: Aerobic exercise. So I have to mention that, like, you know,
as someone that uses the sauna, when you sit in the sauna for, you know, a long-enough
period of time, your heart rate starts to elevate, as if you were doing cardiovascular
work. In fact, I think it's something like 100... [Jari]: Twenty or 150. [Rhonda]: 150 beats per minute. [Jari]: Yeah. It is quite high actually. It's something like a moderate level of physical
activity. [Rhonda]: So you mentioned the duration, the
time people spent in the sauna also was an important factor on the robustness of lowering
cardiovascular-related mortality. So people that stayed in the sauna, I believe
it was longer than 19 minutes had the most robust effect compared to men that stayed
in less than 11 minutes, something? [Jari]: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, the risk reduction can be seen among
those who more than 20 minutes per session in sauna. They was a risk reduction among those men. [Rhonda]: Yeah. I'm always sort of hesitant to tell people,
like, they ask, you know, "Well, how long should I stay in the sauna?" Because on the one hand, you don't want to
stay in too long, but you also don't want to not stay long enough to get these important
benefits, these cardiovascular benefits. So do you have any, sort of, parameters or
guide that, you know, someone that's trying to figure out how long to stay in the sauna
in order to get these sort of benefit, how long they should stay in? Probably depends on temperature as well. [Jari]: Yeah, yeah. On the basis of this study, we found that
20 minutes could be enough, but at the moment, actually, we're exploring more carefully what
could be the time that's needed to stay in the sauna, and it can't be that very short
time, let's say 10 minutes or 15 minutes. It's not enough to get all these health benefits,
maybe. So we try to clarify what is the optimal time
to stay in sauna. [Rhonda]: Great. So you're working on those parameters right
now. What was the average temperature that the
sauna that these men were using? How hot was it? [Jari]: It was 79 celsius. [Rhonda]: Seventy-nine degrees Celsius? So about 20 minutes in a 79-degrees Celsius
sauna was what was important for, at least in the context of the lower cardiovascular-related
mortality and also all-cause mortality as well? [Jari]: Yeah, yeah. That was our primary finding. [Rhonda]: And what was the type of sauna that
these men are using? Because this is Finland, right? [Jari]: Yeah, yeah. It's Finland, yeah. For us it is clear that it is Finnish dry
sauna. Yeah, it's relatively dry. [Rhonda]: Relatively dry? So they weren't doing that... What's it called when you dump that water
on? [Jari]: Löyly? [Rhonda]: Löyly. So that when you make the humidity you do
the löyly? [Jari]: Yeah. yeah. [Rhonda]: Was that also... [Jari]: It was also allowed in the use, yeah. [Rhonda]: So the all-cause mortality is also
interesting because your study showed that, again, there was a dose-dependent effect where
men that used the sauna two to three times a week had a 24% lower all-cause mortality
than men using it one time a week. And I believe it was men using it four to
seven times a week was a 40% lower all-cause mortality? [Jari]: Yeah, it was...yeah, yeah. We're calling those dose-response relation. [Rhonda]: Right, yeah. So you're getting ready to publish...a paper
was accepted that you're going to publish, which will probably be published by the time
this video is published, so that's really exciting. So you found that sauna use is associated
with lower Alzheimer's disease and dementia. That is extremely interesting to me because,
you know, of my interest in heat shock proteins. So the sauna, one of the most robust molecular
mechanisms, you know, that happens upon heat stress. So when you heat-stress the body, what happens
is that you activate a signaling pathway called heat shock proteins. They play a very important role in maintaining
the three-dimensional structure of a protein, which is important, obviously, for protein's
function, but it's also very important for the half-life of the protein. And when the three-dimensional structure of
a protein becomes misfolded because of damage that's occurring, you know, damage that, damage
their DNA, the same damage that does that damages these proteins, you know, by-products
of normal metabolism. Reactive oxygen species, by-products of, you
know, immune activation, these things are damaging our proteins, our DNA, our cells. But heat shock...so when those proteins become
damaged, they misfold, and they don't get degraded properly. So when this happens in brain, you know, proteins
can start to then aggregate and form these plaques, protein aggregates and plaques. So probably the most well-known one is amyloid-beta
42, which is associated with Alzheimer's disease. But interestingly, heat shock proteins, what
their function is inside of the cell is to actually repair a misfolded protein so that
it maintains its proper three-dimensional structure again. So they're basically preventing the protein
aggregation, and this has been shown in multiple studies in rodents, in lower organisms. There's been many, many studies, associated
studies looking at heat shock proteins and neurodegenerative diseases. So there is a lot of interest in how heat
shock proteins may be a therapeutic target for preventing neurodegenerative diseases
like Alzheimer's and also Parkinson's disease. And I've always thought, you know, the connection
between knowing the sauna activates heat shock proteins, I mean, that's their name, you know? They're activated under conditions of stress,
particularly heat stress. So I think that would be a very interesting
thing to look at. [Jari]: I think there some interesting findings,
some acute changes after sauna use. [Rhonda]: After just a single session? [Jari]: Yeah, single session, in vessel and
vessel function. [Rhonda]: Oh, wow. [Jari]: And also heart rate. There is a gradual increase in heart rate
during the sauna, single sauna session. [Rhonda]: Yeah, I've noticed that myself. [Jari]: Yeah, yeah, yeah. When you stay, let's say, 15 minutes in sauna,
it's quite easy. It's not demanding. But after that, it becomes more and more demanding
to stay in sauna, and your heart rate will increase. [Rhonda]: I know there is a bunch of endocrine
factors that increase quite dramatically upon just even a single sauna session, like, for
one, growth hormone. [Jari]: Growth hormone, yeah, it is, yeah. [Rhonda]: Growth hormone goes up, like, 200%
or 300%, like, even after a single sauna session. [Jari]: Yeah, it's quite much, yeah, yeah. [Rhonda]: And growth hormone, you know, it
plays an important role in preventing muscle atrophy, which is also linked to longevity,
right? The more muscle mass you have and more muscle
strength is associated with lower all-cause mortality, so that would be interesting to
see if that's also related. Do you have any thoughts on whether or not,
like, someone who is doing physical activity like doing some kind of a workout exercise,
whether they should use the sauna before or after their workout? [Jari]: This is very interesting question
to see if there's even more clear effects on vessel function and so on if you have an
exercise before and then you go to sauna. Actually, we're normally doing that quite
often in Finland. [Rhonda]: So you normally do the sauna after
exercise, after a workout? [Jari]: Yeah. [Rhonda]: Yeah, that's what I do as well,
you know? And if you think about it too, it's also the
perfect time to get that growth hormone boost, you know, because you've just worked your
muscles, so you need that repair, and also the exercise primes your muscles to take in
the growth hormone, take in actually IGF-1, which is downstream of growth hormone. So your IGF-1 goes in muscle tissue and also
into the brain. So the exercise sort of primes that IGF-1
that's released downstream of growth hormone from the sauna to go into the brain, where
it plays a role in actually helping BDNF, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, in growing
your neurons. So it's always sort of a question, like, do
you do it before a workout or after? And I've always been inclined to do it after
a workout, but it would be interesting to know if there's, you know, specifically, if
it's affecting, you know, vessel function or things like that. [Jari]: Yeah, yeah. We're very interested to see the effects on
vessel function after exercise which is combined with sauna and what are the parameters, what
are the values after that? And because there are also some evidence that
maybe after a strength training, you know, it can be even that the arterial stiffness
may increase a bit maybe in some cases. [Rhonda]: Oh, really, after strength training? [Jari]: So if you go to sauna, you can relax
and improve your vessel function also. [Rhonda]: Wow, that's interesting. So maybe better to do the sauna after strength
training also because... [Jari]: Yeah, yeah, yeah. But, yeah, this is, we have no... [Rhonda]: You're speculating. [Jari]: Speculating, yeah, yeah. [Rhonda]: You're speculating, of course. Yeah, yeah, I mean, but it's okay to speculate. Speaking of speculating, so something else
that I find very interesting is the effect on mood. Actually, it's what got me interested in the
sauna in the first place. So when I was in graduate school, I was very
stressed out, you know, exams and failed experiments and lots of pressure, so I was using the sauna
and it noticeably improved my mood and helped me deal with stress. It helped me deal with the anxiety I was experiencing. And there is a lot of, sort of, speculative
reasons, I think, that's possible, but one is related to cardiorespiratory fitness. So there's actually been studies, one very
recently done, published, in a very large sample of people, I believe it was like a
million people, looking at cardiorespiratory fitness and depression. And the study found that people with poor
cardiorespiratory fitness had a 75% increased chance of being...have been, you know, diagnosed
with depression. So I'm sort of interested in...clearly the
sauna is affecting, you know, cardiovascular health. And do you know, like, cardiovascular fitness
would be, you know, one way to...a measurement of cardiovascular health. Have you ever looked at cardiorespiratory
fitness? [Jari]: Yeah, we have been measuring, also,
cardiorespiratory fitness in our study also in this new study path we have measured, and
we can see if there's association between the fitness, and sauna use, and these different
parameters. Yeah, yeah. [Rhonda]: So that's ongoing right now? [Jari]: Yeah, ongoing in our population-based
study, although we have adjusted for the level of fitness, yeah, there are also independent
associates between the use of sauna and outcomes. [Rhonda]: Oh, cool. So but you're saying, you know, in addition
to people, obviously, that are physically active, you're adjusting for that, and they're
trying to look just specifically at how the sauna may, in and of itself, affect cardiovascular
fitness. [Jari]: Yeah, itself. [Rhonda]: That will be really great. I look forward to that. The other one which I won't get into too much
detail because I don't want to talk so much, but it affects endorphins. So sauna releases endorphins. Endorphins make you feel better. [Jari]: Feel better, yeah, yeah. It's relaxation, yeah, yeah. Also, in Finland, I think quite many use it
for that purpose. They want some relaxation, you know, after
working day and so on. It's like a happy to end your day and go to
sauna and after that you feel more relaxed. [Rhonda]: Do you think that may also have
to do with the improved longevity? Because stress is also linked to longevity,
and so if it's something that's lowering stress and making you more relaxed, that seems like
it goes hand-in-hand with longevity as well. [Jari]: Yeah, it can be. There are studies showing the role of autonomic
nervous system and cardiovascular diseases, how they are related together. And also in our study we want to explore how
the sauna may have effect on heart rate and heart rate variability, which is one of the
measures that can be used to assess the autonomic nervous system and its function. [Rhonda]: Oh, great. Having been in Finland now for a few days
and having the privilege of going to The Finish Sauna Society and also hanging out with some
other friends here in Finland, I've had a chance to experience the sauna culture, the
traditional smoke saunas, and also the other, you know, dry saunas and the Löyly. [Jari]: Löyly, yeah. [Rhonda]: But what I also noticed is that
almost a 100% of the Finnish people that use the sauna, after the sauna, like to go run
into a jump into a cold lake or the Baltic or something cold, very, very cold. And they do this, you know, several times. I mean, it seems to be a very normal part
of Finnish sauna culture. Is that accurate, you would say? [Jari]: Yeah, yeah. Many people are using. I know it, yeah, yeah. [Rhonda]: So I have a question on whether,
you know, what is the safety? Is there any safety issues? Because I've read a couple of case reports
where because you're going from hot sauna where vasodilation is occurring and then you're
going into cold where vasoconstriction is occurring, norepinephrine is being released
and vasoconstriction is occurring. There have been a couple of documented cases
of, like, coronary artery spasm, I think it's called. Maybe do you think there is a potential risk
of going from hot to cold in terms of people with maybe a pre-existing heart disease or
something? [Jari]: Yeah, among those patients who have
coronary heart disease and, especially if it's not stable condition then you have to
be very careful. You cannot do that because there can be a
spasm in the coronary artery, so it can be harmful, yeah. [Rhonda]: But for the most part of the population,
it seems to be pretty safe. I mean, I've done it before, and it feels
really good. I mean, you feel amazing after doing the hot
and cold. Also interested in if it blunts any of the
positive effects, but what's interesting is I've seen that cold also activate heat shock
proteins because heat shock proteins are part of the stress response, you know? It's called hormetic stress. Are you familiar with hormesis? It's like a little bit of good stress where
it's not too much stress, but it's enough stress to activate all of these genetic pathways
that help you deal with stress. Well, heat shock proteins are one of those
genetic pathways. And so cold is also a little bit of a hormetic
stress, and exercise activates heat shock proteins as well. But heat robustly activates them, very robustly. It's good to know that both the hot and the
cold are activating some of the same good genetic pathways. So maybe you're not negating all the good
stuff you just did with the sauna, right? Maybe there's synergy. [Jari]: We would be really happy to investigate
those possible mechanisms between sauna and memory disease, because we have been thinking
through, you know, more like improve cardiovascular system, and circulation, and these, if they
have a effect on the memory diseases because some cardiovascular diseases and memory diseases
are sharing the bit similar risk factors. [Rhonda]: Yeah, like vascular dementia. Of course, yeah, blood flow is absolutely
linked to dementia. So there's probably multiple mechanisms by
which the sauna... [Jari]: Multiple mechanisms, yeah. [Rhonda]: Man, it's great. We gotta get the word out there, you know,
more research, more people using the sauna. I think that's... [Jari]: Because I think nowadays there are
so many studies showing the positive effects of physical exercise on these outcomes and
vessel function and so on, but there are quite limited data on sauna use, and warm exposure,
and these similar outcomes, so there are space to do this kind of research. [Rhonda]: Yeah. You're like, you know, an explorer in new
territory, and no one is really doing this, you know, and it's really great. I'm very glad that someone is, you know, so
please keep up the good work. [Jari]: And in the best case, of course, we
can combine these positive effects in, like, exercise and sauna. [Rhonda]: Exactly. Are you going to look at that as well? Are you going to see if there is a synergy? [Jari]: Yeah, yeah, we try to do something,
yeah. What is also important for public health level
that also we have to emphasize that there many other factors in addition to exercise
and sauna, there are other also. Of course, we have to take care of other risk
factors like blood pressure, lipids, smoking, obesity in addition to that. [Rhonda]: Yeah. Cool. Well, Jari, thank you so much for taking time
to speak with me and I know you're on Twitter. I follow you on Twitter. Do you want to say your Twitter handle name
because it's your name backwards, I think? [Jari]: Yeah. You're welcome to follow, yeah. [Rhonda]: Can you spell it out for people? [Jari]: Jari Laukkanen. [Rhonda]: Right, but your Twitter handle is
LaukkanenJari, I think. So, yeah, L-A-U-K-K-A-N-E-N-J-A-R-I. That's your Twitter handle, yeah. Okay, excellent. Well, thank you again, Jari. [Jari]: Thank you. Thank you so much. [Rhonda]: Special thanks to Dr. Laukkanen
for meeting with me, and for even making special allowances for my unpredictable schedule while
I visited Finland, allowing me to drop in his home late in the evening for a quick conversation. If you want to learn more about the effects
of the sauna on cardiovascular disease, Alzheimer's disease, all-cause mortality, exercise performance
and muscle mass, get on my email newsletter. I send out great articles not only on these
topics but many other topics as well. You can find that newsletter sign-up as well
as a longer informative report on sauna use on my website at foundmyfitness.com. Also, a special thanks to my crowd supporters. It's ultimately their pay-what-you-can monthly
pledges that help me have the resources to keep the ball rolling. If you're interested in supporting the channel
for as a little as a cup of coffee or whatever amount you like, head over to findmyfitness.com/crowdsponser.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: if-J8w2ay94 (https://youtu.be/if-J8w2ay94) ===

hey good morning everyone um I'm very excited to be here in a country that uh has more saunas than people because I like saunas um and apparently you guys must also like sonas today my talk is going to focus much on some of the health benefits uh that sonas have on the brain and also on overall longevity um I'm also going to dive a little bit into cold water and how cold water can also affect the brain uh as well as metabolism um and other uh health benefits as well but today my talk is going to begin with a personal story about uh stress so there's good stress and there's bad stress for me when I was a graduate student um getting my PhD uh I was experiencing a combination of both good and bad stress the good stress was I was learning how to be a scientist I was learning tools and techniques um to answer interesting scient scientific questions that I had um and that was good I was adapting to that stress but there's also uh bad stress that I experienced in graduate school and that came along with many different exams um multiple exams failed experiments experiments that would take me 3 months to set up and would fail and 16-hour experiments I had to perform again and again and again I was not adapting to that stress I was experiencing a sense of at times crippling anxiety which I think everyone in this room has probably experienced some s form of anxiety in their in their lives before so we can all relate to that um so I was not adapting to that stress and it was having negative effects on my health um I was getting for sleep so I decided to try to counter that stress uh bad stress with good stress and good stress is a type of stress that is a shortterm stressor on the body something that is slightly stressful that activates all these genetic Pathways that are hard encoded in our genes that are able to deal with stress and so what ends up happening is that tiny bit of short-term stressor ends up you know not only compensating for that stress but you end up having a net resilience effect uh and this is often referred to as hormesis so you have a little tiny bit of stress and it activates all these stress response Pathways the reason we have these stress response genetic Pathways is because life itself is stressful just normal living normal breathing and oxygen and eating food you know causes stress on our body we we are making you know metabolic byproducts reactive oxygen species like every second it's happening right now as I talk so are we're able to heal uh handle this these types of stresses with you know various genetic Pathways but when you when you can flip that switch on to those genetic Pathways with something that's just slightly stressful on the body something like exercise then you have this net resilience effect and you adapt to that stress and you're able to handle it um better and not only are you able to handle that stress better you become better it's all additionally um another type of hormetic stressor is actually heat stress so something like the sauna um which is a you know heat stress that's something that I started to do in graduate school so I lived across the street from a gym it had a sauna I started using it every day and uh I was using it quite frequently probably about 5 days a week and I started to notice that I felt really good like my mood was noticeably enhanced and I also was able to handle stress better and my xiety was down and I was trying to figure out what was going on in my brain like how was the sauna affecting my brain because it was I it was very very obvious to me so I decided to dive into the literature and try to figure that out so most people are familiar with the feel good endorphin what you may not be familiar with is the counter to that dorphin and dorphin is activated upon heat stress and the reason for that is because dorphin cools the body down well dorphin is the counter to endorphin because it makes you feel uncomfortable and dysphoric so heat stress will release dorphin from a pre synaptic neuron and that dorphin will then bind to another receptor called the cppa opioid receptor and when that happens that's when you begin to feel uncomfortable and dysphoric and that's the feeling you usually feel when you're hot and you're in the sitting in the sauna or you're you just you feel bad like oh I just want to get out it's too hot or you're exercising L you know vigorously and you're you're feeling hot and you want to stop that's dorphin that's what's making you feel uncomfortable you may be thinking to yourself well I thought you said you felt really good what are you talking about here well this is where it gets really interesting because this pathway this mechanistic pathway that is this is a thermal regulatory control pathway you make dorphin to cool your body down but you also feel uncomfortable what happens is this actually changes the way your brain responds to the feel good good endorphins so endorphins bind to another type of receptor called the MU opioid receptor and when dorphin is released and you feel uncomfortable this causes new opioid receptors to make more of them and it's sensitizes them to endorphin so that means the next time that you make endorphin whether that's from exercise or the sauna because it also make uh cause you to release endorphin or if it's you know from laughter or giving someone a hug what whatever it is that's causing you to release endorphin you are going to feel so much better because that endorphin is going to bind to those receptors that are really sensitive to that endorphin and so the effects are lasting and they last longer and you feel better so it you know your depression is you know it lowers depression it helps with anxiety it helps with all these things when you're when you're sensitized to endorphin and so it's quite possible that um this is actually why the sauna was able to help me deal with my xiety and help me to deal with um stress and made me feel really good but in addition to affecting the brain the sauna also appears to affect overall longevity so this was actually a study that came out of um the University of Eastern Finland and the study followed around 2,000 middle-aged finish men that were using the sauna frequently um and the study followed them for 20 years and measured who died of you know any sort of nonaccidental death so people that died from cardiovascular related diseases people that died from cancer or nerve degenerative diseases uh respiratory diseases so all these diseases were measured um and and followed these men were followed for 20 years and what this study found was that men that use the sauna two to three times a week so that's indicated here in red they were 27% less likely to die from any cardiovascular R disease compared to men that use this on a one time a week men that use this sauna four to seven times a week which is indicated in Black they were 50% less likely to die from cardiovascular related diseases throughout the 20-year period compared to men that only use the sauna one time a week so there was a dose dependent effect that was uh improving cardiovascular health and causing these men that were using the sauna more frequently to you know uh be healthier and to die less of or be less likely to die of I vascular disease in that 20-year time span Well turns out not just sauna frequency was important but also the duration of time spent in the sauna so those same men that were that stayed in the sauna for greater than 19 minutes so that's indicated here in Black they have the most robust effect on lowering cardiovascular related mortality compared to men that only use the sauna um less than 11 minutes so both the frequency and duration of sauna was very important for lowering cardiovascular risk um there are a variety of different mechanisms that have also been um put out there for why using the sauna can lower cardiovascular related mortality U chiefly among them is the sauna in some ways mimics cardiovascular exercise so when you sit in the sauna in a hot sauna your heart rate elevates to 100 to 150 beats per minute which really is equivalent to moderate intensity physical exercise also plasma volume expands and increases and blood flow increases to the heart and this lowers cardiovascular strength so your heart has to do less work for each beat that it's pumping blood you know throughout your body to to deliver oxygen to your tissues so it's lowering cardiovascular strain it's been shown to lower blood pressure improve endothelial cell function endothelial cells line your blood vessels it's been shown to um increase and improve uh left ventricular function so lots of different things that the has been shown to improv in terms of cardiovascular risk factors Well turns out cardiovascular disease was not the only thing that the sauna um lowered the mortality rate for turned out that all these other non-accidental deaths were also lowered so men that used the sauna 2 to three times a week had a 24% lower all cause mortality than men that use the sauna only one time a week men that use the sauna four to seven times a week were 40% less likely to die of cancer cardiovascular disease neurod degenerate disease respiratory diseases and all these other non-accidental diseases that you know people come down with with age so this is very interesting but before I get into the potential mechanisms I want to point out that this study also measured a variety of different parameters that may affect the data so confounding factors they're called so they measured you know the physical activity of people their their percent body fat um they smoke if they smoked or drank a lot of alcohol their socioeconomic status so all all those things were considered when they when they were analyzing this data so this data really is reflective of sauna use but the the interesting thing is these men were 40% less likely to die of all these diseases why is that like what what is this sauna doing how is it affecting overall longevity so to understand that we're going to have to turn to some animal studies and look at other molecular mechanisms where we know that heat has shown to affect longevity chiefly among them are heat shock proteins so heat shock proteins as their name implies are activated um by heat uh they're often referred to as hsps and they play a very important role inside of cells they their their role is to make sure that proteins maintain their three-dimensional structure and that's really important because every protein inside your cell has a certain three-dimensional structure in space and that threedimensional structure is essential for that protein's normal function and if you disrupt that threedimensional structure the protein can't function optimally so for example all your metabolic enzymes are specialized proteins their threedimensional structures are disrupted they're not going to be working optimally but that's not the only thing that's important or the only reason why the threedimensional structure is important um the threedimensional structure protein is getting damaged all the time so just normal existence uh is damaging proteins in our body all the time every time we breathe in oxygen and we're eating food and our mitochondria are trying to couple those together to generate energy well that generation of energy is really damaging because it also makes reactive byproducts that damage the proteins inside of our cell and when they damage the proteins the proteins become misfolded they're not their threedimensional structure is screwed up and when they become misfolded this disrupts the protein halflife and what this ends up doing is that protein just kind of sits around inside of the cell longer than it's supposed to it's usually supposed to get you know be gotten rid of sooner and when it sits around inside of the cell it starts to aggregate with other proteins that have been misfolded so as we age we start to get these protein aggregates that are accumulate inside of our cells outside of our cells that happens in our brain amalo beta is probably one of the you know key uh protein aggregates that people are familiar with that play a rol that plays a role in um brain aging as well as Alzheimer's disease so these protein AG you know they disrupt all sorts of things and they're really really bad and they lead to neurod degenerative diseases also they play a role in cardiovascular disease so the role that hsps or heat shock proteins which are activated by heat um is really important because when you have that Protein that's damaged the heat shock proteins can repair that damage and they can make the protein fold back to its normal three-dimensional structure and this allows for you know the protein not to form aggregates um and that's why heat chog proteins have been shown in many many many different studies in animals um you know and in lower organisms to prevent Alzheimer's like diseases Parkinson's disease um and also cardiovascular disease so heat chock proteins are very important just sort of as a proof of principle here um there's been a couple of studies that have looked at fly fruit flies and worms um these are lower organisms that kind of like T was talking about the tardigrade they we these organisms actually share a lot of human DNA so dropa have 40 4% of these fruit fly um genes are found in humans which is quite a bit so if you take a fly and you expose it to one single exposure of heat for 70 minutes it extends your lifespan by 15% also that was shown to be dependent on heat Shu proteins because they have a version of heat Shu proteins um katog proteins have also been associated with human longevity so humans that have a variation in a gene that makes hog proteins uh live have exceptional longevity but there's actually another pathway that's activated by heat uh a longevity pathway and that's fox03 so foxo3 is a gene that is a master regulator of many other genes because it activates those genes and it deactivates those gen genes um many of the genes that it's regulating have to do with stress resistance have to do with being able to handle stress uh and what do I mean by stress I mean that same damage I was talking about so just you know the normal damage that we're being exposed to every day not even to mention the damage we're exposed to for from external factors like you know Benzene from air pollution and other carcinogens that we're exposed to that's also damaging um things in our body but that same Dam Dage that damages proteins damages our DNA and when it damages our DNA that can potentially lead to mutations that could lead to cancer well foxo 3 activates genes that are involved in DNA repair that repair that damage before it ever can form a mutation additionally foxo3 activates genes that are involved in cell death so if a cell does get a mutation that could potentially lead to cancer the cell will sacrifice itself and it will die so you know it's a it's a protective mechanism against cancer that same damage that damages proteins that damages DNA also damages cells and when the cell accumulates enough damage as we age it accumulates more and more damage that cell eventually becomes what's called senescent and ccent cells aren't cells that are they're not alive but they're not dead they're kind of just sitting around inside of a tissue or an organ and they're secreting these pro-inflammatory molecules and cyto kindes that are damaging other nearby cells accelerating the aging process and causing them to become ccent so it's really bad well foxo3 activates genes antioxidant genes that prevent that damage from ever hitting the cell they also foxo3 activates genes that if the cell does become senescent and is damaged genes that are involved in um autophagy and clearing away that damage but just to kind of highlight how important the uh toxy processes and clearing away ccent cells there was a recent study in mice mice also accumulate ccent cells as they age and they were given a chemical compound that anytime a ccent cell cropped up in one of their organs it got rid of that ccent cell and that extended the lifespan of the mice by 20% so they actually live 20% longer than their normal average lifespan so siness and cells are definitely accelerating the aging process and anything you can do to get rid of siness cell or prevent them uh is going to positively affect aging so foxo3 also activates genes that are involved in stem cell function uh stem cells are very important because they replace all the other cell types in our tissues for example they make more white blood cells we lose white blood cells as we age and we become more susceptible to infections and resory diseases as we get older um stem cells also make more stem cells which is good because we lose stem cells as we age as well we want to keep replenishing our organs we want to keep replenishing the cells in each of our organs um so that they keep maintaining the function of whatever they're supposed to do so foxo 3 activates those genes as well it's pretty it's pretty badass but if you're not convinced yet I'm going to show you one of uh some a study that's actually my early work um when I was a young scientist at the sulk Institute it's actually one of the first uh biology experiments I did and really got me hooked on biology so this worm here is um it's a sea elegant worm and it lives on average about 15 days of lifespan it has around uh it shares about you know 60% of its genes are found in humans um it has a version of the foxo3 gene so this worm has been genetically engineered to express human amalo beta 42 that toxic peptide that Aggregates and forms flax and brains of people as they age and plays a role in Alzheimer's disease it's been it's been engineered to express it in its muscle tissue lower muscle tissue so as it ages the amalo plaques aggregate in its muscle tissue and it can't move it becomes paralyzed so I guess if you watch this video let's go back cuz it okay so you watch the video oops one second here I pressed something okay so let's see if I can play this see it's not moving its lower body it's just moving its nose around that that worm right there is 12 days old so it's at the end of its lifespan so the next worm I'm going to show you uh is the same age as that worm it's also been genetically engineered to have amalo beta plaques and its muscle tissue to get paralyzed the only difference is is that it has also been genetically manipulated to have foxo3 Gene active all the time so you can see it moving around just fine same age as the other worm day 12 so the only difference was that foxo3 Gene prevented those Aggregates from you know accumulating in its muscle tissue and causing it to be become paralyzed so it aged much much better um than the other one and if you're not convinced with worm longevity then perhaps you'll be convinced with uh human longevity so the foxo3 ga the foxo 3 age has been associated with human longevity so we're we all have um different variations of the same genes so we have the same genes but different variations of these genes uh it's what give people you know blue eyes versus brown eyes well some people have a version of Oxo 3 a that makes it active all the time so it's you know it's always activating these antioxidant genes it's activating autophagy genes it's activating stem cell function genes it's act activating DNA repair genes so these genes are constantly being activated and so people that have that are able to deal with all sorts of damage so much better because they can just repair it constantly well those people are 2.7 times more likely to become a centenarian to live to be 100 which is pretty uh impressive so in summary when we're talking about the sauna and and Longevity the sauna sensitizes the brain to endorphin and uh it does that by increasing dorphin which makes you feel uncomfortable and uh as a consequence you feel better because you become sensitive to the feel-good Endorphin it improves cardiovascular function um it's been associated with lower all it's been associated with lower cardiovascular rate of mortality uh it improves uh cardiovascular function by lowering cardiovascular strain it also improves overall longevity possibly by many different mechanisms activating heat shock proteins which are important for M maintaining the proper three-dimensional structure of proteins inside of our cells and also by activating the boxo regene which is doing so much coolshit that's like really really good and really important for the way we age um one other thing that I want to mention that uh didn't get into it also increases growth hormone by like 2 to 3 fold sometimes in cases um if you if you do multiple sauna treatments it can increase growth hormone by up to 16 fold um growth hormone plays a very important role in many things but um improving repair of muscle damage is one thing that it's uh important for but I want to switch gears just for a minute here and talk a little bit about another type of stress or another type of hormetic stress and that is cold stress which um I I think you guys in Finland are also very accustomed to jumping in cold water as well there's many different modalities for cold stress jumping into a cold lake taking a cold shower jumping into an ice bath walking around in the cool air in Winter um going into a cryotherapy chamber these are all methods that can um cold stress our body and cold stress much like heat stress is a type of hormetic stress that activates all these genetic Pathways that help us deal with stress probably one of the most Rob uh responses to cold stress that I have seen in the literature um is the robust increase in norepinephrine in the locus culus region of the brain norepinephrine in the brain plays a very important role in focus and attention uh and vigilance also in mood so it makes you feel better norepinephrine is uh something that's actually pharmacologically targeted quite often so it's used to treat depression and also ADHD um but it can be released by Cold shock in the body um sorry that slide what kind of temperature temperatures are we talking about here well we're talking about uh people people that were walking around in 16° C air you know temperature for 6 hours increase their norepinephrine by 260% um you don't have to spend that much time in the cold to get a norepinephrine increase uh people people that submerged theirself in 4.4 de C water um for 20 seconds were able to increase their norrine by 200 to 300% so the colder the water the more robust the norepinephrine release uh but also duration as well so if you're if you're not if you're in less cooler water then you don't have to stay in as long for example U but these things have all been shown to be very robust in releasing norepinephrine something else very cool about norepinephrine you know in addition to being a neurot transmitter it actually acts as a hormone as well um and it we also release it in our body uh because it causes Vaso constriction and that's one of the mechanisms that we use to conserve heat when we're cold uh so another mechanism that we're that we use to generate heat is also related to norrine and that has to do with increasing mitochondrial biogenesis in your adapost tissue and in your muscle tissue so mitochondrial biogenesis means a new mitochondria so this is an electron micrograph that I took several years ago of a fiberblast cell which is not an atopos cell but I just wanted to show you mitochondria um this oval here in the center is the cell nucleus and all these like beanik structures around it are mitochondria and those mitochondria are the energy producing units inside of our cells that they're what makes energy in our cells well these these mitochondria are the mitochondrial biogenesis occurs with cold exposure you can think about it it makes perfect sense because because as you generate energy as a byproduct you generate heat and so this is a adaptive mechanism that occurs to help you warm up when you're cold so this mitochondrial biogenesis that happens in the anose tissue is often referred to uh as Browning of fat and the reason for that is because if you look here at the mitochondria this this is a black and white micrograph but the mitochondria are like darker in color so you can imagine when you have more of these in atopos tissue which is white it appears to look beige or brown so it's a little browny color um also as you have more mitochondria in your fat because fat is you know it's where you're storing the most energy uh you start to burn that fat because the mitochondria are trying really hard to make heat because they want you to not die they want you to see know to warm up uh you the the side effect is that you actually burn fat and so a lot of people like that as a you know potential mechanism to treat obesity this is all regulated by norepinephrine so that's very interesting because I just talked about norepinephrine and how it regulates mood Focus attention me makes you feel good um helps with anxiety but it also appears to regulate this process because if you block the in the brain's ability to respond to neurop nephrine then mitochondrial biogenesis does not occur upon cold exposure in adapost tissue so that nephrine is very important for that what kind of temperatures are we talking about for MIT conal biogenesis well those same humans that were walking around in 16° C weather for 6 hours that had a 260% increase in norepinephrine experienced a 37% increase in Browning of their atopus tissue so they're able to Brown their fat after walking around in 16° C weather coolish weather for 6 hours anop tissue is not the only tissue that mitochondrial biogenesis URS it also happens in muscle tissue and this is another electron micrograph I took it's a little closer up uh it's not muscle but you can see the mitochondria are they come in different shapes and sizes and uh the ones that are longer that's actually two mitochondria fusing together exchanging all their mitochondrial DNA and all their mitochondrial content and the ones that are like oval-shaped are ones that have actually broken apart after they've exchanged all their content it's really elegant how mitochondria can repair damage by doing this process but it's sort of a side tangent um the mitochondrial biogenesis also occurs in muscle tissue that is not regulated by norrine that's regulated by another pathway but it has been shown to be very robust it activates something called pgc1 Alpha and um what's interesting is that if you think about mitochondria they're what allow us to use oxygen for energy so if you're if you have more mitochondria in your muscle tissue then you're going to be able to more effectively use oxygen and this uh is why mitochondrial biogenesis and muscle tissue has been shown to improve arobic capacity uh which you know is uses oxygen uh so PE so men that actually submerge their legs in uh I think it was about 10° Cel water for uh 10 minutes they had experienced massive mitochondrial biogenesis and muscle tissue uh and it's also the cold exposure has also been shown to improve and very you know preliminary studies to improve endurance uh in some athletes including Runners and uh cyclists and tennis players so there's this you know the ongoing study looking at how cold exposure may actually enhance endurance uh performance because of this mitoch biogenesis among other things it also reduces inflammation and helps with recovery time so uh lots of interesting stuff we talked about today um we talked about how the sauna affects cardiovascular you know function how it affects overall longevity how it affects the brain how it sensitizes the brain to endorphins talked about how it activates foxo3 and how foxo3 is a really really important stress response genetic pathway that activates all these other amazing genes that help us deal with all the damage that we're constantly being exposed to and how it's involved in longevity we talked about you know cold exposure and how it's important for norepinephrine how norepinephrine helps you focus it helps you um feel good and also helps with anxiety as well and it causes the production of new mitochondria both in your adapost tisue and cold uh causes the production of your mitochondria in your muscle tissue and how that may play a role in endurance so lots of interesting science going on in this field but I what I think many of you actually may be asking yourself is what about going from the hot sauna into the cold water does you know going into the cold water after the hot sauna negate any of those effects and the shorter answer is I don't know there's not really any empirical evidence that I have seen that suggest anything because no one's really looking at that but I do know that going from a hot sauna into the cold water causes Nora epinephrine to be increased even more than either alone uh so that's good it it implies there may be some synergistic effect and I also know that cold shocking the body with cold water whatever modality or using um also activates heat shock proteins not as robustly as heat does but the fact that it activates the same genetic pathway that heat does uh I think is good because I it gives us hope that maybe these two things in combination are synergistically acting together and are improving overall longev longevity through similar uh mechanisms but I know personally from doing it it also just makes you feel really really good and I think that accounts for something so with that I will leave you with the slide of me on my sunny California beach um and uh DET taunt you and say thank you so I guess I can take some questions yes when combining SAA with exercise you have a for IDE the microphone I will repeat the question but we'll wait for the [Music] microphone would youc it's not on the mic's not on [Music] so the question I think is when combining sauna with exercise is there a certain protocol that before after before after okay so the question is if you are doing exercise you know I guess aerobic or strength training I'm not sure what type of exercise and you're doing the sauna like is it better to do the sauna before you do the exercise or it better to do the sauna after exercise and if you're asking me if there's empirical evidence showing either uh no I haven't seen any that's showing but from personal experience I prefer to do the sauna after exercise uh because one the sauna is also exhausting so I try to do the sauna before I workout my workout won't be as good um and also I think that you know after the workout I like doing it because it's increasing the growth hormone and igf1 and so these things are you know right after you're working out it's it's helping repair that some of that damage that's been done from the workout too so but I don't there's no empirical evidence to say what's the best pro call yes what are your opinions [Music] about so the question I think is uh what are what are my thoughts on doing cold after so the question is what are my thoughts on doing the uh cold shocking the body so going into a cold bath or ice bath after doing um aerobic exercise versus strength training exercise where you're lifting weights um and it's a really good question because there's been a lot of diff differences and conflicting evidence in the scientific literature showing that doing cold water immersion for example um immediately after endurance exercise appears to improve the endurance exercise and and that's partly because one mitochondrial biogenesis is immediately occurring in muscle tissue so you're improving aerobic capacity so if you're if you're doing that and then you immediately engage endurance exercise again you know Studies have shown there's some endurance enhancement um also it reduces inflammation and so when you're doing endurance type of training that also can help if you reduce your inflammation that can improve your performance as well however when you're doing strength training if you're lifting weights um something that you're wanting to cause muscle hypertrophy then it's been shown doing cold water immersion in immediately after that um is not good because immediately after strength training there's inflammation that's that occurs and that inflammation is very important to as a hormetic response to activate all these anti-inflammatory Pathways and also um it's important to um activate some immune cells that play a role in producing igf-1 and muscle tissue which helps you you know make your mus grow basically it helps you with hypertrophy so um doing cold water immersion within an hour after strength training is um has been shown to be deleterious on muscle hypertrophy do we not have a functional mic okay so I'll try has there ever been done any kind of uh research on how different kind of breathing techniques and sound could change uh the hormonal level or the Brea so the question is is there any difference in how a person breathes they're breathing you know the the way they're breathing in the SAA and if that affects some of the hormone production if that affects some of these other you know neurotransmitter and and things that are being activated by breathing so uh the answer is I haven't seen any studies doing that sort of breathing in the sauna to you know actually you know affect affect that but you know you changing doing hyperventilation and things that can cause a slight hypoxia have been shown to affect epinephrine release also norepinephrine so independent of the SAA they are also affecting neurotransmitters and also hormones doing it in the sauna I'm I'm not sure um I was thinking because the air is so different right the air is different back the mic phone is working now okay we can have question in the back now the microphone is working I'm told yes hello yes hello thank you foration I'm what is the cas that a person is has like and he intolerance like in the case of that in the of [Music] um I I heard some of the question I think that you're asking in the case of fibromyalgia if there's any evidence int most often there is and in so I would like ask [Music] do aled in the cas of and so I don't know about any uh genetic polymorphisms or Snips that play a role in fibromyalgia specifically I'm sure there probably are some genetic polymorphisms that do uh but I do know that both the sauna and cold exposure have been shown to improve and and these studies are not very well done I mean there's no control group but they people subjectively have felt better their F fibromyalgia has improved after using um of coer because it is and it's linked to this cold intolerance do you know anything about the metabolism of copper in I'm sorry I don't know anything about the copper thank you can't yes hello hi um is there anything you need need to watch out for when you have a certain heart disease or a weak heart if you go from uh very H to very cold um is it all healthy or do you have to watch out for some stuff thank you yeah so that's a a great question is you know is there any health risk involved in going from the hot to the cold uh and this is something that I've been very interested in as well you know if you think about it you're you're causing baso dilation and you're increasing blood flow when you're in the sauna and then when you go into the cold you're doing the exact opposite you're actually causing Vaso constriction um and uh so it's the I've looked in the literature and I I found a few studies that were published showing that people that had pre-existing heart conditions um particularly ones that are involved with plaque production uh and the arteries like arterial sclerosis aerosis um these these conditions May there may be a risk according to a few studies with going from the hot to the cold um but it's it's it's really there's not a lot of research on that and it's something I'm very interested in and I'm actually going to be talking to the researcher that did the sauna study here in Finland in a couple of days and so he's someone I'm hoping to get some answers from and also ask him if he can look you know future studies he can look at that because I think it's a very important question that needs to be answered we need to understand um the health risk potential health risk of going from hot to cold cool how the beend for Dr an Patrick thank you thank you so much

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: eWKBsh7YTXQ (https://youtu.be/eWKBsh7YTXQ) ===

Dr rap Patrick here in my last video on hypothermic conditioning I suggested that regular sauna use May improve athletic endurance prevent muscle atrophy improve insulin sensitivity increase neurogenesis the growth of new brain cells improve learning in memory and may also increase longevity today we're going to pick up where we left off longevity my last video was a little preent on this topic because recently the Journal of Jama Internal Medicine published a study that showed that sauna use was was in fact associated with longevity the study recruited over 2,000 middle-aged men and investigated the frequency of Sona use with s sudden cardiac death fatal coronary heart disease fatal cardiovascular disease and all cause mortality including cancer over the course of 20 years let's talk about what the study found the study found that fatal cardiovascular disease was 27% lower in men that use the sauna 2 to three times a week and 50% lower in men that use the sauna 4 to 7 times a week compared to men that only use the sauna once a week moreover the study found that men that use the sauna two to three times a week had a 24% reduction in all cause mortality and men that use the sauna four to seven times a week had a 40% reduction in all cause mortality compared to men that only use the sauna one time a week but of course one sauna may vary from the next so let's talk about one of the important parameters used in this study temperature the average temperature of the dry saunas used in the study were hot 79 ° C or 174° F often used with a splash of water poured over Hot Rocks to increase the humidity for a duration of up to or exceeding 20 minutes this means that the results may not be directly applicable to hot tub steams and infrared saas which often operate at a lower temperature now that doesn't mean that there's no merit to using hot tub steam rooms and infrared saunas it just means that there are subtle differences if you're comparing them to the hot and dry finished saas that were used in this study some of the positive benefits of sauna use on heart health may be due to similar effects that regular physical exercise has on heart health using the sauna at a moderate level can increase the heart rate to 100 beats per minute and a more intense sauna session can increase heart rate to 150 beats per minute just in case you didn't know that's fast and the latter corresponds to moderate intensity physical exercise long-term sauna use has been shown to improve blood pressure andth thelial function and ventricular function now let's talk about longevity after all that was the most striking finding of this study I think there are a couple of good molecular explanations that can explain how sauna use could influence longevity first we'll talk about a topic that we've discussed previously heat shock proteins also known as hsps heat stress from using the sauna and also to a lesser degree exercise can activate the expression of genes that make more heat shock proteins heat shock proteins have many important functions inside the cell one important function is to make sure that proteins which do all the biological work inside the cell maintain their proper three-dimensional structure when under stress this is whether we're talking about stress from heat or stress from normal aging from injury or from UVB radiation for example the three-dimensional structure of the protein is very important for its function as well as for the longevity of the protein itself just normal metabolism and normal immune function in other words just living creates reactive byproducts called reactive nitrogen and reactive oxygen species which damage the proteins inside of your cell this damage disrupts the three-dimensional structure of the proteins and the function of this protein so that it's no longer able to do the work it's supposed to do not only does this damage disrupt the the function of the protein but it also leads to protein aggregation protein aggregation is found in cardiac diseases such as heart failure in a sclerosis and cardiomyopathy and is also commonly found in neurod degenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease since we know that heat chock proteins are awesome because they help us resist stress both of the exceptional varieties such as tissue injury and also the normal variety such as normal aging perhaps it's not so surprising that heat stress increases the lifespan of flies and worms by 15% and this has been shown to be dependent on heat chock proteins another tidbit of information that suggests heat chock proteins may be associated with human longevity comes from the fact that a gene polymorphism that increases the expression of more heat chock proteins is associated with being a centenarian that is living to be 100 that said heat chock proteins aren't the only protein we should be looking at when trying to investigate the effects of heat stress and Longevity another molecular pathway we should be looking at is foxo3 well I have mentioned heat chock proteins in my last Sao video I did not mention Fox 3 I have however mentioned fox03 in other videos and other presentations foxo3 is associated with longevity in fact humans that have a gene polymorphism that make more fox03 have up to a 2.7 fold increased chance of living to be a centenarian also mice that make more foxo3 increase their lifespan by 30% so how does foxo3 accomplish this foxo3 is a master regulator of many different genes when it's on it turns on many different genes that make your cells more resilient to a variety of different stresses that occur with age many of the genes that foxo3 turn on happen to decrease with age so it's really good to boost their expression one particularly important type of stress that foxo3 protects against is DNA damage the same type of reactive byproducts from normal metabolism and normal immune function that damage proteins also damage DNA DNA damage can lead to IM mutation and when a damaged cell has a mutation it can replicate and can lead to cancer foxo3 increases the expression of genes that are involved in DNA repair so that the damage is repaired and never forms a mutation foxo3 also increases the expression of genes that kill damaged cells so they can't form cancer foxo3 also makes cells more resilient to damage by increasing the expression of genes that combat this damage including antioxidant genes which were much more potent than dietary antioxidants in addition when cells become damaged or when tiir become critically short cells undergo sence which means they are not dead but they're not alive either rather they just sit around and they secrete pro-inflammatory cyto kindes and pro-inflammatory molecules that damage other nearby cells creating this vicious cycle of pro-inflammatory cyto production well foxo3 increases the expressions of genes involved in autoph which means this the damaged cell will eat itself instead of sitting around secreting pro-inflammatory cyto kindes foxo3 also increases the expression of genes that are involved in immune function which declines with age so that your immune cells can fight off viruses bacteria and cancer cells better boxo 3 increases the expression of genes involved in metabolism and stem cell function just to name a few please somebody pass me more foxo3 so in summary sauna use was associated with longevity the more frequent the sauna use the greater the effect on longevity heat stress such as using the sauna activates heat shock proteins and this has been associated with increased lifespan in worms and flies heat shock proteins also protect against one of the types of stress associated with aging heat stress also activates one of the well-known longevity genes foxo3a which happens to protect against a variety of different cellular stresses that occur with age it comes as very little surprised that using the sauna regularly may come with some genuine health benefits that Encompass longer life as for me I'm going to continue hitting the sauna every chance I get Dr Ronda Patrick over and out

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== VIDEO: aHOlM-wlNjM (https://youtu.be/aHOlM-wlNjM) ===

Dr Ronda Patrick here in my last video and accompanying article I discussed growth hormone and igf-1 and their performance longevity trade-off on the one hand as a downstream mediator of growth hormone igf-1 has many positive effects associated with youth such as decreasing fat while increasing lean muscle mass increasing verbal memory and increasing neurogenesis the growth of new brain cells and also promoting muscle repair on the other hand mice worms and flies that are genetically engineer to have high levels of growth hormone or igf-1 have substantially shortened lifespans hence the trade-off heat acclamation through sauna use a term that I call hypothermic conditioning can help achieve and give you many of those positive effects associated with igf-1 without the risk of high levels of growth hormone or Supra physiological levels of growth hormone that's associated with growth hormone therapy today I'm going to discuss how acclimating your body to heat through using something like the sauna either in conjunction with or independent of exercise can induce physiological adaptations that can help improve your endurance performance and the acquisition of muscle mass in addition I'm going to discuss how heat acclimation actually has very interesting and positive effects on the hypothalamus and neuroendocrine system many of these impacting brain function including neurogenesis lastly I will discuss how heat acclamation or modulating your core body temperature may also be responsible for the term known as the runner's high so let's begin with the endurance enhancements first heat acclamation increases the blood flow to your skeletal muscles this increases glucose esterified fatty acids and oxygen to your skeletal muscles often times during endurance training your skeletal muscles will deplete these nutrients and then they have to rely on local glycogen stores anecdotally endurance athletes often talk about hitting a wall while this in biological terms is referring to when your muscles have depleted local glycogen stores in fact it's been shown that heat acclamation reduces the need to to rely on glycogen stores between 40 and 50% as compared to not being heat acclimated second heat acclamation increases blood flow to the heart this lowers cardiovascular strain and lowers the heart rate for the same given exercise workload these things allow physical activity to be maintained for a longer period of time as compared to not being heat acclimated third is heat acclimation increases blood flow to the skin and it activates the sympathetic nervous system which allows sweating to occur at a lower core body temperature and to be maintained for a longer period therefore lowering your core body temperature it also releases nor epinephrine which is a vasodilator among other things and allows for heat to be dissipated more efficent efficiently also lowering the core body temperature so let's take a step back from these nuts and bolts and talk about what kind of endurance gains you can expect from heat acclamation through sauna use in one study male Runners engaged in a 30 minute sauna session two times a week after their workout these Runners were able to increase their running until exhaustion by 32% and they experienced an accompanied 7% increase in plasma volume and 3.55% increase in red blood cell count it's thought that the increase in red blood cell count was due to a compensatory mechanism for the increased plasma volume and possibly through arotin heat acclamation through SAA use can also have positive effects on muscle hypertrophy tropy that is gaining muscle mass muscle hypertrophy mostly relies on the increasing the size of muscle cells which depends on increasing protein synthesis exercise is a well-known inducer of muscle hypertrophy because it increases net protein synthesis but unfortunately it also has to combat the effects of oxidative stress which increases protein degradation at the same time so anything that can combat oxidative stress during exercise will result in a net increase in protein synthesis and thus muscle hypertrophy there are three ways that being heat acclimated can increase muscle hypertrophy first is through the induction of heat chock proteins second is by boosting growth hormone levels and third is by improving insulin sensitivity heat shock proteins as their name implies are induced by heat this robust induction of heat chog proteins upon Heat exposure is a prime example of hormesis heat shock proteins are able to repair damaged proteins and prevent protein oxidation by Scavenging free radicals and by increasing endogenous antioxidants in our body such as glutathione and this is how they are able to cause a net increase in protein synthesis acclimating your body to heat can also result in higher basil expression of heat shock proteins as well as a more robust induction during later elevations in Core Body temperatur such as during physical exercise in one study in rats hypothermic conditioning resulted in a robust induction of heat chock proteins and this correlated with 30% more muscle regrowth compared to controls after 7 Days of immobilization the second way heat acclimation affects muscle hypertrophy is through the release of growth hormone the anabolic effects of growth hormone are well known for example Le growth hormone Administration to endurance athletes for 4 weeks resulted in 50% less protein oxidation and degradation thereby increasing muscle hypertrophy but what's not well known is that the sauna also affects growth hormone levels these effects depend on the temperature time spent and the frequency of sauna use for example two 20 minute sauna sessions a day at 80° C can result in a two-fold increase in growth hormone levels over Baseline but perhaps what's more surprising is the profound effects that frequency of SAA use can have on growth hormone levels and this really highlights the physiological adaptations that occur as a consequence to hypothermically conditioning your body to heat two 1H hour a day sauna sessions at 80° C for 7 days in a row resulted in a 16-fold increase in growth hormone levels over Baseline in men that's pretty huge the third way in which heat acclamation can promote muscle growth is by improving insulin sensitivity insulin is anabolic because it decreases protein degradation much like heat shock proteins and growth hormone whole body hypothermia has been shown to reduce insulin resistance and improve insulin sensitivity and an OB diabetic Mouse model what's also interesting is that heat stress which is known to boost growth hormone levels in humans has been shown in flies and worms to cause about a 15% increase in lifespan now this is countered to what you might expect if you watched my last video on the performance longevity tradeoff the reason for this is that heat stress induces hormesis and that causes the increase in expression in genes and protein proteins such as heat chock proteins that are known to improve longevity intermittent heat exposure and heat acclamation also have positive benefits on the brain these positive benefits include increased neurogenesis improved learning in memory and improved Focus SAA induced hypothermia also has a profound effect on noro epinephrine and prolactin levels in one study individuals that stayed in the sauna until exhaustion had a 310% increase in norepinephrine and a 10-fold increase in prolactin levels norepinephrine helps with focus and attention and prolactin is important for myelin growth milin increases the efficiency of the electrical activity in your brain and is also important for repairing nerve cell damage in addition to increasing norepinephrine heat acclamation also increases the biological capacity to store neuro epinephrine for later release this is very relevant for disorders such as ADHD which is is often treated with nor epinephine reuptake Inhibitors and is associated with decreased nor epinephine release during exercise heat stress also increases neurogenesis hypothermia in conjunction with exercise increases the expression of brain derived neurotrophic Factor bdnf even more so than exercise alone bdnf is often referred to as a Miracle Grow for brain cells because it increases the grow grow of new brain cells and it promotes the survival of already existing neurons bdnf also increases neuronal plasticity which is important to learn new information as well as to remember and retain that new information BNF has also been shown to decrease depression and anxiety associated with early life stressful events and if that weren't enough bdnf can also be released from your muscle cells where it promotes muscle repair and the growth of new muscle Tiss tissue all I can say is wow a couple of other interesting facts about physiological effects of heat stress ever wonder what's responsible for the runner's high or the post exercise high in general you may think it's due to the release of endorphins but that's not the whole story endorphins also known as beta endorphins are part of the body's natural mu opioid painkiller system this is the same system that potent narcotics like morphine interact with what you may not be familiar is the counterpart to this the Kappa opioid system dorphin is responsible for that feeling of dysphoria it is the opposite of endorphin the discomfort experienced from intense exercise heat stress or even eating spicy foods is due to the release of that dysphoric opioid dorphin it is the release of dorphin that caus causes your mu opioid receptors to become sensitized to that feel-good opioid endorphin hypothermia from sauna use increases dorphin levels and subsequently endorphin levels even more than exercise alone did you retain all that awesomeness I just threw at you okay let's have a quick recap heat acclamation through Sona use a term I call hypothermic conditioning has been shown to improve endurance by increasing nutrient delivery to your muscles and thereby reducing the need for glycogen stores by improving cardiovascular mechanisms and reducing heart rate and also by improving therm regulatory mechanisms and lowering core body temperature it's been shown to improve muscle hypertrophy by the by preventing protein degradation and thereby causing a net increase in protein synthesis from the following three mechanisms one by inducing the expression of heat chock proteins which also are induced from a hormetic response that has been shown to improve longevity in lower organisms secondly by increasing the release of growth hormone and thirdly by improving insulin sensitivity hypmic conditioning through SAA use also has important positive effects on the brain it increases the release and the storage of norepinephrine which is important for focus and attention it increases prolactin which helps your brain function faster through myelination which is Al important for repairing uh damaged nerve cells in addition increases bdnf which increases the growth of new brain cells it is important for learning in memory and also helps decrease depression and anxiety that's associated with early stressful events lastly it also increases the expression of dorphin which sensitizes your body to the Feelgood endorphin I believe that hypmic conditioning in general is worth a closer look as a tool in the tool bit of athletes Beyond its more traditional role as a means of relaxation because hypothermic conditioning works by inducing stress in order to build stress tolerance it should definitely be used with some level of caution and Common Sense particularly with regards to your own unique body chemistry here's one more thing for you CrossFit people out there heat stress has been shown to increase the expression of heem oxygenase one which as it turns out is also known as heat shock protein 32 and has been shown to protect against the toxic effects of rabdomiolisis and rodents I'm Dr Ronda Patrick and I'll catch you next time
